Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   F                   COPY
Report No. 1912-UNI
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 23, 1979
West Africa Agricultural Projects I
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =       Naira (N)
US$                     =        N 0.65
N  1                           US$1.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures in this report are metric.
1 metric ton           =  0.98 long ton
1 long ton             =  1.016 metric ton
(= 2,240 lb)
1 hectare              =  2.47 acres
I acre                 =  0.405 ha
1 kilometre (km)       =  0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AA           -   Agricultural Assistant
ABU          -   Ahmadu Bello University
ADC          -   Area Development Center
AO           -   Agricultural Officer
APMEPU       -   Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit
AS           -   Agricultural Superintendent
BPEC         -   Bida Project Executive Committee
BPMU         -   Bida Project Management Unit
BPTCC        -   Bida Project Technical Coordination Committee
BRRS         -   Badeggi Rice Research Station
CDA          -   Controlled Droplet Application
CFU          -   Central Fertilizer Unit
CP           -   FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme
CRIN         -   Cocoa Research Institute
FADP         -   Funtua Agricultural Development Project
FDA          -   Federal Department of Agriculture
FDAR         -   Federal Department of Agricultural Research
FDF          -   Federal Department of Forestry
FDL          -   Federal Department of Livestock
FDRD         -   Federal Department of Rural Livestock
FMAWR        -   Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
FMG          -   Federal Military Government
FMF          -   Federal Ministry of Finance
FO           -   Field Overseers
FSC          -   Farm Service Center
IAR          -   Institute of Agricultural Research
ICB          -   International Competitive Bidding
IITA         -   International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
LGA          -  Local Government Area
LGC          -   Local Government Council
MEPU         -   Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit, BPMU
MNR          -   Ministry of Natural Resources - Niger State
MWH          -  Ministry of Works and Housing
MTIC         -  Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperative - Niger State
NAFPP        -   National Accelerated Food Production Program
NACB         -   Nigerian Agricultural and Co-operative Bank
NCRI         -   National Cereals Research Institute
NEPA         -   National Electric Power Authority
NIFOR        -   Nigeria Institute for Oil Palm Research
OER          -   Official Exchange Rate
OFN          -   Operation Feed the Nation
REB          -   Rural Electrification Board
ROR          -   Rate of Return
SER          -   Shadow Exchange Rate
SES          -   Smallholder Extension Service
THU          -   Tractor Hire Unit
ULV          -   Ultra Low Volume Sprayers
UPE          -   Universal Primary Education
WARDA        -   West Africa Rice Development Authority
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ...............               ............................ .    1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......................  ........... .              1
III.    NIGER STATE ..............................................                8
IV.   PROJECT AREA   ............................................   10
A.   Physical Features . .................... ...  .......... .   10
B.   Infrastructure and Social Services                ..................   11
C.    Socio-Economic Features .....           ........................   12
D.   Land Use, Farm Structure and Farm Enterprises .......   14
V.   THE PROJECT              ..............................................   16
A.   Summary Description ...................................   16
B.   Detailed Features ...................................   17
C.   Cost Estimates ......................................   23
D.   Proposed Financing .......... ........................   26
E.   Programming and Budgeting               ...........................   27
F.   Accounts and Audits .................................   28
G.   Procurement and Disbursement ........................   28
VI.    TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ....              .............   29
VII.    DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES    .............................   33
A.   Demand and Marketing .............................  .......    33
B.   Prices ...............................................    33
VIII.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................                34
A.   Organization and Management ....             ....................    34
B.    Staffing ...      ........................................        35
C.    Farm Credit Administration ....           .....................    36
D.    Post-Project Management .....           .......................    37
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD mission consisting of Messrs.
Farruk and Hachero (Bank) and Messrs. Babutzka, Gunasekara and Rice (Consult-
ants) who visited Nigeria from September 23 to October 24, 1977 to appraise
the project. In addition Messrs. Bolduc and Ody (Bank) contributed to the
report at Headquarters.



Page No.
IX.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ............... ........................  38
A.   Financial Implications for Farmers ...................  38
B.   Cost Recovery and Financial Implications for
Government ............ ........ .0......... .................   40
X.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ............     ............ s  ......... ... ..  41
XI.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED ....................   43
Tables in Text
Table 1   Page 19.  Schedule of Irrigation Development
Table 2   Page 25.  Summary of Project Costs
Table 3   Page 26.  Proposed Financing Plan
Table 4   Page 31.  Yield and Aggregate Production
Table 5   Page 39.  Net Returns to Farmers
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Table 1   Land Use, Farm Size and Production in the Project Area.
Table 2    Crop Development ('000 ha)
Table 3   Crop Production ('000 metric tons)
Table 4    Agronomic Recommendations
Table 5   Farm Input Requirements
Table 6   Phasing of Road Construction and Maintenance
Table 7    Production Rates and Plant Requirements forConstruction Units.
Annex 2 - Table 1   Summary of Project Costs
Table 2    Plant, Vehicles and Equipment Costs
Table 3    Buildings and Houses
Table 4    Summary of Irrigation Development Costs
Table 5    Staff Salaries
Table 6    Incremental Farm Input Cost
Table 7    Summary of Medium Term Loan - Seasonal Credit Requirements
Table 8    Project Operating Costs
Table 9    Schedule of Building Unit Costs
Table 10  Detailed Financing Plan - By Expense Category
Table 11  Disbursement Schedule
Table 12   Illustrative Cash Flow - Niger State Government
Annex 3 - Table 1   Financial and Economic Prices - Domestic Retail
Table 2   Estimated Financial and Economic Prices
Table 3    Crop Budget - 1 ha Rice
Table 4    Crop Budget - 1 ha Sorgum
Table 5   Crop Budget - 1 ha Maize
Table 6    Crop Budget - 1 ha Groundnut
Table 7    Crop Budget - 1 ha Bambara
Table 8    Crop Budget - 1 ha Cowpea
Table 9    Crop Budget - 1 ha Yam
Table 10  Crop Budget - 1 ha Cassava
Table 11  Crop Budget - 1 ha Cotton



- iii -
ANNEXES
Annex 4 - Table 1    Economic Farm Input Costs
Table 2    Calculation of Rate of Return
Table 3    Economic Value of Incremental Production
Table 4    Rate of Return for Formal and Informal Schemes
Annex 5 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.
CHARTS
World Bank 18603      Project Organization
MAPS
IBRD 13708R1   Nigeria:  IBRD-assisted Agricultural Projects
13265     Typical Swamp Layout
13306R    Project Area:  Roads and Proposed Agricultural Centers
13307                     Physical, Geological and Rainfall
13309R                    General Features






NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01        The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested
Bank Group assistance in financing an agricultural development project in the
Lavun, Agaie, Lapai and Gbako Local Government Council (LGC) areas of Niger
State. This report appraises a project designed to increase the productivity,
incomes and standards of living of the farm families in these areas through
farm support services, better farming practices and infrastructural and
institutional improvements. Approximately 61,000 ha of arable annual crops
would be improved under the project. From experience of similar ongoing
projects it is estimated that 60,000 farm families (about 75% of total) would
benefit directly from project intervention.
1.02        This project originated from a proposed rice development project
for the Bida area, part of the former North Western State, and was first
identified by FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) in November 1974. The CP
was requested to assist in preparing a project covering the main rice-growing
areas of Bida and Agaie/Lapai divisions. Terms of reference for the study
were finalized in October 1975, but the breakup of the North Western State
(February 1976) prevented full project preparation. Subsequently, the then
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development requested the Bank to
identify additional agricultural development projects similar to those in
northern Nigeria (see para 2.19). In October 1976, a Bank identification
mission reviewed the previously identified rice project in the Bida area and
recommended that it should be expanded to include other major crops and
infrastructure development. A CP preparation mission visited Nigeria in
January/February 1977 and submitted its report in July 1977. Meanwhile, a
local firm of consultants (ENPLAN) commissioned by the Federal Department
of Agriculture (FDA) completed irrigation engineering studies, a resource
inventory and a socio-economic survey of the project area and submitted its
report in September 1977.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01      Nigeria.  The Federal Republ c of Nigeria comprises 19 States and
covers a total land area of 924,000 km . Total 1977 population is estimated
at roughly 79 million, which is nearly 20% of the total for the African con-
tinent. Average GDP per capita (estimated at around US$420 in 1977) is low
and unevenly distributed; income in rural areas is considerably lower.



- 2 -
2.02      Economic Trends.  The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil
sector, which accounts for about 30 percent of GDP, over 90 percent of
export earnings and 80 percent of Government revenue. The increase in oil
prices in 1973/74 enabled the Government to embark on a massive investment
program and this contributed to GNP growth averaging 6 percent per annum
between 1973 and 1977. However, growth was concentrated in those sectors
that benefited in particular from the rapid expansion in Government ex-
penditure, i.e., infrastructure, education and large scale manufacturing,
and performance of the productive sectors, notably agriculture, has been
disappointing.
2.03      The unprecedented rise in public spending (federal current expendi-
ture increased from US$1.1 billion in 1973/74 to US$4.2 billion in 1977/78,
and capital expenditure from US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion), quickly ex-
hausted the oil-produced internal and external surpluses, and Nigeria now
faces considerable fiscal and balance of payments constraints. The economy
was unable to generate goods and services at the rate demanded, and conse-
quently the domestic price level rose by an average of 26% per annum between
1975 and 1977. Oil production in Nigeria is not expected to rise much above
the present level during the 1980's and overall growth prospects for the eco-
nomy are therefore considered modest.
Sector Characteristics
2.04        General.  Approximately 61% of Nigeria's population is dependent
on agriculture, which accounts for about 23% of GDP, 5% of total export
earnings and 62% of non-oil exports. Agricultural production is almost
entirely in the hands of smallholders whose levels of technology and produc-
tion efficiency are low.
2.05        Cropping patterns vary within the country's main ecological zones.
In the forest zones of the south, where rainfall is bimodally distributed
over a wet season of up to eight months, the agricultural economy is largely
based on tree crops with annual staples providing subsistence and subsidiary
income. In the Guinea and Sudan Savannah zones of the north, rainfall is
monomodal within a six month spread and production is based almost entirely on
annual crops. Between these two zones is an area known as the "middle belt",
supporting southern Guinea and transitional forest savannah vegetation and a
mix of annual and tree crops. However, rainfall quantity and spread are inade-
quate for successful economic exploitation of the latter. Little development
attention has been directed towards the "middle belt", which forms an impor-
tant food producing reserve for the nation.
2.06        Growth of the agricultural sector has been disappointing, averag-
ing 0.9% per annum from 1970-76, equivalent to only half the average popula-
tion growth. This same period has been characterized firstly by rapidly
rising domestic food prices as demand, resulting from population and income
growth, outstripped domestic supply, and secondly by a marked decline in
traditional agricultural export crops apart from cocoa. During the same
period total exports (including petroleum) increased from N 852 million to
N 6.6 million; importation of food and live animals over the same period rose
from N 50 million to N 440 million, and to N 790 million in 1977.



-3-
Federal Sector Institutions
2.07        Agricultural development in Nigeria is the responsibility of
nineteen State Governments and the Federal Ministry of Agricultural and
Water Resources (FMAWR). The FMAWR is responsible for coordination of agri-
cultural development activities and national policy for the sector and sub-
sectors. Thirty percent of the Federal funds for agricultural development is
distributed equally among the States and the remaining 70% on the basis of
population. Additional subventions are made for special projects; for
example, 25% of the Bank financed projects' costs are presently borne by the
FMAWR. Within FMAWR the FDA (Federal Department of Agriculture) is concerned
primarily with tree crop development, the National Accelerated Food Production
Program (NAFPP), Operation Feed the Nation (OFN) and training, while the FDRD
(Federal Department of Rural Development) is responsible for the planning and
implementation of integrated rural/ agricultural development programs.
The FDA and FDRD have established project monitoring, planning and evaluation
units at Benin City and Kaduna, respectively, with Bank technical assistance.
2.08        The NACB (Nigerian Agricultural and Co-operative Bank), which was
established by the FMG in November 1972, is the first and only Federal in-
stitution organized solely to provide finance for agriculture. Its initial
authorized share capital of N 1 million was subsequently raised to N 2 million
and has been fully paid up. NACB is fully dependent on Government funding
through Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) loans and Central Bank discount
facilities. It charges 5-7% to its borrowers as interest, which bears no
relation to the real cost of capital in Nigeria nor to NACB's overall lending
cost. Its lending operations are normally restricted to large commercial
farms, plantations and other financial intermediaries for onlending. As of
June 30, 1976 it had approved 91 loans for a total N 86 million. Long-term
plans and policies for NACB, particularly with respect to interest rate and
direct involvement in lending operations to small farmers are yet to be
defined. The Bank's only involvement with NACB as a channel for farm lending
is associated with the Livestock Project (Loan 1091-UNI), which has not been
successful. At this stage it would be more prudent to administer credit
directly at project level (see paras. 8.08-8.12) until NACB's operations
become more flexible and effective. Meanwhile, the Bank is maintaining a
dialogue on agricultural credit with NACB and Federal authorities on the basis
of ongoing sector work, the object being to set the stage for possible direct
Bank support to NACB as soon as circumstances warrant it.
2.09        Government intervention in marketing and pricing of agricultural
crops has always been an important sector operation. Until recently, the
official marketing system for statutory crops consisted of the Northern
States Marketing Board (responsible for cotton and groundnuts), the Cocoa
Marketing Board and a number of State Marketing Boards integrated at the
national level with the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC). In
April 1977, these were replaced by seven Commodity Boards, each dealing
with one particular commodity or groups of commodities. With this, virtually
all major export and non-export crops have been brought within the purview
of the statutory marketing regulations. The Boards do not enjoy monopsony
powers, except in respect of some export crops, and market participation is



unrestricted. The Boards are expected to operate a system cif rural buying and
primary assembly similar to their predecessor Marketing Boards, i.e., through
a string of licensed buying agents and their sub-agents, and are also expected
to administer government's minimum producer price program. However, guaran-
teed minimum prices are usually lower than market prices (see Annex 3 Tables
1,2) which, together with financial, managerial and logistic constraints,
precludes substantial market intervention by these bodies. Therefore, except
for cocoa, coffee, rubber and cotton, public sector participation in and
impact on agricultural produce marketing (and prices) is minimal.
2.10        The universities of Ibadan, Ife, Nigeria (Nsukka) and Ahmadu
Bello (ABU) offer graduate/undergraduate courses in agriculture and conduct
research. Additionally, the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) at
Samaru, the Federal Department of Agricultural Research (FDAR) and the Inter-
national Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) at Ibadan, are engaged in
food crop (cereals, grain, legumes, oil seeds, root crops) and cotton re-
search, while the Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria (CRIN) at Ibadan and the
Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR) at Benin are engaged in cocoa
and oil palm research. Generally, the research programs of Nigerian institu-
tions are insufficiently geared towards solving the practical problems faced
by the farmers and there has been limited interaction with agricultural
extension activities (see also para 3.06).
Development Strategy
2.11        Government is aware of the need to improve performance in the
agricultural sector and to invest the substantial revenues from oil, an asset
that is being depleted, to expand and diversify the economy in which agricul-
ture will remain a dominant sector for the foreseeable future. In the revised
Third Five-Year Development Plan, a total of N 3.0 billion is earmarked for
the sector to support a targeted growth rate of 5%. The program includes
development of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of
modern farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution and
marketing services and support for various integrated development projects.
Rural development will be promoted with complementary investments in secondary
and feeder roads, rural electrification, health and other social services.
2.12      Government's main short term objective is to improvre internal
price stability in basic foodcrops and to ensure adequate food supplies
to the rapidly expanding urban centers. Beyond this aim of assured domestic
food supplies, Government's longer-term objectives are to create a prosperous
and efficient agricultural industry sufficient to reduce population drift to
urban centers and to revive the role of Nigeria as an agricultural exporter.
2.13      During the past two years (1977-78), the implementation of new local
government reforms have been taking place. The reforms are significant, both
politically and from a standpoint of practical rural development, and in
effect replace a more traditional local government administration at the



- 5 -
subregional level by elected Local Government Councils (LGCs). The reform
is thus intended to increase popular participation in the conduct of local
government. In undertaking this reform, the Federal Government recognizes the
importance of decentralized administration and the power of local opinion if
the long-term development effort is to be successful. The powers and respon-
sibilities of LGCs are quite considerable and involve all aspects of develop-
ment from agriculture, education, health, to roads and water supplies. It is
quite clear that generally most states intend that the LGC will, in the long
term, control and operate agricultural extension services which will have a
yet undetermined impact on the structure and role of State Ministries of
Agriculture. While this development has far-reaching implications, LGCs are
expected, during the next decade, to face difficulties in securing the ser-
vices of sufficient numbers of competcnt and experienced staff. Furthermore,
the lack of properly coordinated and planned policies, and deficiencies in
funding, are likely to prevent their smooth development. Nevertheless, LGCs
are a practical reality and agricultural development projects in Nigeria will
have to make allowance for their involvement and, where possible, provide
support for their development.
Development Constraints
2.14      Undoubtedly, the main short-term development constraint in the
sector is the lack of effective agricultural support services. Produce
evacuation is hampered by lack of feeder roads, and many farmers have to
travel long distances to the unevenly distributed and unreliable sources of
inputs.
2.15      At the present highly subsidized prices, the demand for farm in-
puts (in particular, for fertilizer) is high and at times unsatisfied; in
many areas this has encouraged a thriving black market. However, even within
areas of relatively high consumption of purchased inputs, physical yields
are still low and it is likely that many farm operations would be unviable
at economic prices.
2.16      Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector, and present Government policies, inter alia on input
subsidies, are not sufficiently geared to encouraging vigorous private sec-
tor participation. It is, however, highly likely that given Nigeria's size
and massive development program and the existence of an economic system
largely based on private enterprise, Government will ultimately wish to
divest itself of responsibilities such as input distribution and produce
marketing; this would require creation of an economic framework appropri-
ate to profitable involvement of private entrepreneurs in the agriculture
service sector. In addition, a greater effort is required, particularly by
the Nigerian agricultural research institutions, to improve the analysis of
technical, economic and financial aspects of farming innovations for adapta-
tion to the different social and ecological conditions of Nigeria. This in-
formation is an essential background to a sound input supply policy and the
development of appropriate delivery systems.



- 6 -
2.17      Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a back-
ground of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising stan-
dards of education, both of which lead people to react against the poor re-
turns to labor and the drudgery associated with traditional agriculture. Re-
cent years have seen a marked drift of young people away from rural areas and
a sharp rise in wage rates for hired labor. Ultimately, a prosperous agricul-
ture industry, capable of reducing this drift, would only be achieved through
application of advanced farming techniques that would provide significant in-
creases in income per man-day. This is likely to lead to greater mechaniza-
tion and the utilization of modern herbicides and other chemicals, that will
increase yields and reduce labor requirement. Eventually larger farming units,
either group or individually operated, are likely to evolve.
2.18      The Federal Government is generally aware of these constraints and
of the need for further improvement in planning and executive capabilities at
both State and Federal levels. Furthermore, there is a dearth of technical
and managerial personnel at all levels, which suggests a need for greater ra-
tionalization of the responsibilities of public agencies and also much closer
coordination in the activities of such agencies, if the effectiveness of avail-
able manpower is to be maximized.
2.19      Bank Role and Key Sector Issues.  Total Bank commitments for agricul-
ture in 1971-78 are US$292.0 million and encompass 13 projects (See map IBRD
13708R). The first loans in Nigeria were for the now-completed Western State
Cocoa Project (1971, Loan 764-UNI, US$7.2 million) and the Second Cocoa
Project (1974, Loan 1045-UNI, US$20.0 million), which is being successfully
implemented in Oyo, Ondo, Ogun and Bendel States. These were followed by
three integrated agricultural development projects in the north: Funtua Proj-
ect (1974, Loan 1092-UNI, US$29.0 million), Gusau Project (1974, Loan 1099-UNI,
US$19.0 million), and Gombe Project (1974, Loan 1164-UNI, US$21.0 million); a
Rice Project (1974, Loan 1103-UNI, US$17.5 million) in Anambra, Imo and Cross
River States; a Livestock Project (1974, Loan 1091-UNI, US$21.0 million); three
Oil Palm projects: Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Ondo State
(1975, Loan 1192-UNI, US$17.0 million), Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm
Project, Bendel State (1975, Loan 1183-UNI, US$29.5 million) and Smallholder
Oil Palm Project, Imo State (1975, Loan 1191-UNI, US$19.0 million). In 1977
the Bank approved two new integrated agricultural development projects, Lafia
(Loan 1454-UNI, US$27.0 million) and Ayangba (Loan 1455-UNI US$35.0 million)
located in the important middle belt zone of Nigeria, and most recently in
1978 the Rivers State Oil Palm Project (Loan 1591-UNI, US$30.0 million). The
projects have had varying degrees of success. The two cocoa projects were
successful during the development and establishment stage, and over 100,000
acres of cocoa has been satisfactorily replanted. The oil paLm projects are
now picking up after early delays in establishing management structures and
problems of lack of delegation of authority by the State Agriculture Admin-
istration. The livestock project has made a disappointing beginning, having
proved too complex and dispersed to be managed from the Federal level.  Over-
all management proved weak and difficulties arose in arranging effective
cooperation with NACB. Recently (December 1978), Government has contracted
the management of the project to a consultant firm, experienced in the field



of livestock projects in Nigeria and other parts of West Africa. Moreover
FMAWR is taking steps to remove obstacles currently preventing NACB from meet-
ing its obligations to the project. It is expected that with these and other
proposed actions, the project will soon be reestablished and become fully
operational. The first three integrated agricultural development projects
(Funtua, Gusau and Gombe) have completed about three quarters of their de-
velopment period and are considered successful. Studies by the built-in
evaluation unit (APMEPU), a direct responsibility of FDRD, indicate that these
projects have achieved significant gains in production and social development.
2.20      Experience of implementing existing projects has reinforced Bank
concern over a number of critical policy issues, resolution of which is vital
for medium and long-term sector development and which must be taken in con-
sideration in future projects. First: while under present conditions subsi-
dies on selected on-farm developments may be desirable, the current policy
of subsidies on nondurable inputs (fertilizer, insecticides, herbicides),
irrigation water rates, tractor hire charges, interest rates and other items
is encouraging inefficient resource use, discouraging development of farm
support services by the private sector and straining Government's fiscal and
administrative resources. Second: input procurement and distribution has
been centralized at the Federal level, resulting in inefficient supply to
farmers and a needless additional burden on the already overstrained agricul-
ture public administration. Third: State and Federal funding procedures are
not yet satisfactory, and this has created severe problems for project execu-
tion. Fourth: credit policies and the performance of NACB (para. 2.08) have
not yet provided a viable financial framework for the development of either
smallholders' or commercial agriculture. Finally, the lack of experienced man-
power at managerial, administrative and technical levels is a major constraint
in the planning and implementation of development programs, often compounded
by poor manpower utilization and frequent switching of staff.
2.21      The appraisal, negotiation and supervision of existing agricul-
tural projects in Nigeria has given the Bank and Government an opportunity
for dialogue on key sectoral issues. The Government generally shares Bank
concerns though some differences in approach remain, for instance over the
question of continuing input subsidies. Because the issues in question are
politically sensitive and often administratively difficult to resolve, it
would be unreasonable to expect their prompt and simultaneous resolution. An
agriculture-policy-oriented sector mission has recently returned from Nigeria
and is expected to produce additional factual material on which further
progress may be possible in the exchange of views between Government and the
Bank. Meanwhile, Bank-assisted projects will necessarily involve special
arrangements in some areas such as Federal and State flow of funds, reim-
bursement of input subsidies, credit and input procurement, all of which
are deemed essential to the successful implementation of such projects.
2.22      As to management and administration constraints, the short-term
solution adopted in Bank-supported projects in Nigeria is international
recruitment, and the establishment of special project management units. A
long-term solution must necessarily involve the training of Nigerian manage-
ment staff and the restructering of service institutions. To this end, at the



- 8 -
request of Government, and in addition to the already substantial training
component of ongoing projects, the Bank has appraised and negotiated an
Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute Project. Concerning
Federal and State planning and monitoring capability, the Government vlews the
Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU)
created under the Funtua Agricultural Development Project (1092-UNI) and
expanded under the Ayangba Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1455-UNI) as
a first step toward creating a planning and monitoring capability for rural
development in the Ministry of Agriculture. At this stage, APMEPU's planning
capability is in its infancy and is confined primarily to project identifica-
tion and to providing assistance to State agricultural planning units.
Project preparation is normally undertaken by consultants, and this will
probably continue to be the case for some years to come. The monitoring
arrangements for the present project (para 5.15) will operate in close
liaison with APMEPU.
III. NIGER STATE
General
3.01      Niger State, previously part of the 5ormer North Western State, was
created in February 1976. It covers 65,200 km (7% of the Federation). The
Niger River forms the southern boundary and the proposed federal capital is
to be sited on the south eastern boundary occupying part of what was the
Abhuja division. The State capital is Minna. Administratively, the State
is divided into nine local government areas (LGA) each controlled by an
LGC.  Total population is estimated at 1.72 million, 2% of the Fel eration
total. Popula5ion density is generally low averaging about 26/km but rising
to over 100/km in certain areas. The State is one of the most sparsely
populated of the Federation. The economy is based on agriculture in which
about 90% of the population participate.
Agricultural Sector
3.02      The State lies entirely in the Guinea savannah zone and rainfall
varies between 1,000 mm and 1,400 mm with a five to six months dry season.
Farming systems across the state vary with rainfall. In the south, rice
is the dominant cash crop whilst yams and cotton dominate around Minna in
the northeast, and Kontagora in the west, respectively. Main cash crops
exported out of the state are rice, cotton, groundnuts and sheanuts. Sugar
is grown in the small valleys and a sugar plantation is being developed in
the Sunti area, south of Lavun LGA. Forestry plantations are being developed
to supply a pulpwood factory in the neighboring Kwara State; potential
for livestock development is limited due to tsetse infestation, but fishing
in the Niger and Kaduna rivers is an important occupation for about 7% of the
State population.



- 9 -
3.03      The State Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) has five divisions:
agriculture (including planning, mechanical services and fisheries); animal
husbandry; irrigation; forestry and produce inspection. Capital allo-
cations to MDNR under the State's five year development plan (April 1975 -
March 1980) total N 46.5 million (about 14% of total plan outlay), of which
N 20.2 million are allocated to the agriculture division, N 17.0 million to
irrigation, N 6.2 million to animal husbandry, N 2.4 million to forestry and
N 0.4 million to produce inspection. The Agriculture Division, primarily
responsible for crop extension and input supply services, has a field staff
currently including nine graduate agricultural officers (AO), 27 agricul-
tural superintendents (AS), 56 agricultural assistances (AA), 147 field
overseers (FO), and 25 home economics instructors. The large area covered,
the low ratio of field level extension staff to farmers (average about
1:1,200), and poor logistic support result in farmers having little contact
with extension staff and render extension efforts virtually ineffective.
The extension staff are also responsible for determining farmers' requirements
for fertilizers and agro-chemicals and for seed multiplication and seedling
production, as well as bulking and distribution of all inputs and supervision
of tractor hire operations.
3.04      The Tractor Hire Unit (THU) is organized to provide mechanical land
preparation services (disc-plowing, ridging and harrowing) to all farmers,
but the principal beneficiaries are large commercial and group farms. Current
charges (N 6.00/ha for plowing, N 5.20 for ridging upland and N 2.50 for
harrowing rice fields) involve at least a 65% subsidy and therefore demand
for these services is high and generally outstrips currrent organizational and
equipment capabilities. During 1977, THU cultivated about 3,500 ha (70% on
uplands) which was 75% higher than in 1974. The unit has many inoperative
tractors (about 40%) and consequently, low output and high operating costs.
In 1976 average operating cost per operational tractor was about N 1,600 while
income realized was only N 500. In the medium term, Government should aim to
divest itself of this unit in favor of more efficient and properly serviced
commercial operators.
3.05      The first attempt to provide short term credit to farmers in
Niger State was made in 1975/76 through the NACB Farmers' Credit Scheme.
The scheme was operated by MNR until June 1, 1977 when it was transferred
to the State Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives (MTIC). The
cooperative movement in Niger State is, however, very weak and almost all of
the 240 primary credit societies are inoperative. MTIC is reorganizing
these cooperatives through accounting and management assistance; however,
it is too early to assess the impact of this effort.
3.06      The National Cereals Research Institute (NCRI) undertakes applied
rice research at the Badeggi Rice Research Station (BRRS), whilst upland crop
research is done by the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) on its
outstation at Mokwa. The IITA and West Africa Rice Development Association
(WARDA) also participate in trials at BRRS. Research programs primarily
consist of trials on varietal improvement, fertilizer, herbicide and insecticide



- 10 -
application, intercropping, cultural and post-harvest practices. Under the
NAFPP some onfarm trials are conducted in the State, but in general practical
farmer related experimental work is inadequate, and interaction between
research, extension and farmers is generally absent. Technical supervision
and management of the BRRS is reasonable, but the Mokwa station is in a poor
state lacking direction, trained personnel, equipment and funds.
3.07      The State does not have a school of agriculture, and except for
low level training, has to rely on institutions outside the State, such as
ABU (for graduates), the agricultural colleges at Samaru, Kabba (for agricul-
tural assistants), and Bakura (for irrigation agronomists). An agricultural
college designed to offer diploma courses is planned for Mokwa. Low
level extension workers undergo four-months training at the Farm Training
Center at Bida (30 student capacity). There are five farm institutes (each
with a capacity of 20) for training farmers' sons; these offer eight-month
courses and on completion students are given a N 90 grant plus fertilizer to
start their own farms, which are intended to serve as demonstration farms.
Some supervision is provided at the initial stage but this is generally
inadequate and the impact of the training is negligible.
IV. PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
General
4.01      The project area (see IBRD Map 13309) includes th2e Lavun, Gbako,
Agaie and Lapai LGAs of Niger State, covers some 17,000 km (26% of Niger
State) and includes 40% of the state's population. It is generally of above
average agricultural potential, and in parts is comparatively densely popu-
lated. It includes an important rice producing zone and, compared to the
remaining five LGAs, is ecologically best suited for improvements for a wide
range of field crops. Additionally, major irrigation development by the State
has been planned for the river basins in the project area and the proposed
project would help ensure the basic agricultural services and infrastructure
to support those schemes.
Topography and Soils
4.02      Over 75% of the area has gentle to moderately undulating plains
between 60 and 250 meters above sea level. The plain is dissected by a series
of streams and depositional river valleys associated with the Kaduna and the
Gbako, the two main tributaries of the Niger river. Below 60 m, the plain
gives way to the upper and lower Niger river terraces. The upper terraces are
generally flat, seasonally flooded and are up to 10 km wide. The lower
terraces are intersected by water courses, or low cutoffs and are largely
inaccessible during the rains. Hills, rocky outcrops and ironpans are
scattered throughout the area (details at Annex 1, Table 1(a)).



- 11 -
4.03      Over 90% of the area is underlain by Nupe sandstone, the rest by
basement complex. The upland soils overlie thick sandstone; at higher ele-
vations they are normally ferrosols but at lower levels become ferruginous
tropical soils. The soils are generally slightly acid (PH 6.5), low to very
low in exchangeable cations and cation exchange capacity, low in organic
matter and highly permeable. The soils are sandy and easily degradable,
cannot sustain crop yields for long periods and recuperate slowly under
fallow. About 60% of the upland is suitable for growing a wide range of crops
but requires fertilizer and careful soil management. The lower Niger terraces
have moderately deep to very deep loamy soils with some sandy profiles, and
are generally weakly developed alluviums with gleyed lower layers and are of
limited agricultural value. The upper Niger terraces are hydromorphic allu-
viums, subject to water logging due to their level topography and the presence
of hard pan layers. Textures vary betwen coarse sandy loams to clays, nutrient
status is good and PH 6.0; most soils are suitable for rice and, in the
heavier pockets, sugar cane. The river valleys contain hydromorphic soils,
(usually loams over clays) and although subject to seasonal flooding they are
suitable for cultivation. The soils overlying the basement complex are coarse
sands or sandy clays and are generally infertile.
Climate
4.04      Mean annual rainfall at Bida and Baro is over 1,220 mm concentrated
between April and October, with either a single peak in September or two
peaks in July and September. Rainfall increases to about 1,400 mm in the east
and falls to 1,000 mm in the west (Mokwa). Total annual rainfall is reliable,
the standard deviation being only 13 to 18% of the mean, and the 25%, 75% and
90% probabilities being within tolerable limits for crops grown in the area.
Drought periods during the wet season (180-205 days) are rare. Except in the
drier western areas, temperatures hardly fall below 200c. Evaporation averages
about 1,200-1,600 mm annually. Sunshine hours and the related net radiation
display marked seasonal variations with the trough in August; this is par-
ticularly so in Bida where sunlight falls to 1 hour and net radiation to
130 cal/cm2 per day.
Vegetation
4.05      The project area lies within the southern Guinea savannah vege-
tation zone. Much of the natural forest has been denuded by slash-and-burn
agriculture and large areas comprise open savannah woodland with 5'-10'
high coarse grasses. Deciduous trees and palm groves predominate in most
river valleys.
B. Infrastructure and Social Services
Roads and Communications
4.06      The project area is principally served by road and railroad; water
transport is of negligible importance. The road network consists of 488 km of



- 12 -
federal roads, 368 km of state roads, 450 km of LGC roads, and innumerable
small community tracks and foot paths. Only about 80% of the federal roads
are suitable for year round use; nearly half were constructed to unacceptable
standards and require improvement.  All state roads are earth r3ads and only
40% of them are passable year round, while 20% of the LGC and community roads
are useable throughout the year. Maintenance and construction of rural roads
are the responsibility of the four LGCs; however, staff, equipment, and
financial constraints severely limit their performance. There is a small
airstrip at Bida but no scheduled services.
Power, Water Supply, Health Services and Schools
4.07      Bida and Badeggi have electricity provided by the National Electric
Power Authority (NEPA). Supplies are erratic, generating capacity does
not match local demand and some areas are frequently without power. Three
additional generators were expected at the end of 1977, but their installation
has been delayed. The Rural Electrification Board (REB) was expected to
install generators in Agaie, Lapai and Kutigi by the end of 1978.
4.08      Bida, Lemu, Doko, Kutigi, Mokwa and Badeggi have piped water
supplies; other areas depend on streams or dug wells (about 800 in the project
area; 1.2 mm in diameter and 10-15 mm deep). The Niger State Water Board is
responsible for water supply, well construction and maintenance. It expects
to construct about 150 additional village wells in the project area by 1980
and the Bida division of the Water Board is adequately staffed and equipped
for this.
4.09      Health services and facilities are limited, consisting of a 280-bed
hospital in Bida, 35 clinics and 4 health centers in the outlying areas.
Malaria and sleeping sickness are endemic while some incidence of Bilharzia
and Guinea worm is also reported. Onchocerciasis is not common in most areas,
but incidence is reportedly high in the Abhuja division to the east. Under
the current five-year plan, five additional health centers and a 22-bed
hospital at Mokwa are to be constructed. A federal project to eliminate
sleeping sickness is operating in the Lavun and Gbako LGAs, while a pilot
malaria control project is to be started shortly.
4.10      The Universal Primary Education program (UPE) is making progress
in the area and there are 313 schools (116 in Gbako, 106 in Lavun and 91 in
Etswan), each with two classes of about 40 pupils. There are five secondary
schools and five teacher training institutions but post-primary education
opportunities are still inadequate. A vocational training school is planned
in the Bida area with assistance from Bulgaria; some staff including Bulgarian
technicians are in post but instruction has not yet started.
C. Socio-Economic Features
Demographic Characteristics
4.11      Total population is estimated at about 700,000, with 80% (or
560,000) comprising the rural population. Bida town, with 86,000 inhabitants,



- 13 -
represents the major urban concentration. The majority of the rural population
is located in villages with populations of 50-150 people and hamlets with no
more than 30 residents; average density of the farming populating is esti-
mated at about 30/km but this varies throughout the project area. Govern-
ment data on demographic features are lacking but using satellite imagery,
photographs and random ground checks it was estimated that 2over 50% of the
population is located in densities of about 109 persons/km , and 40% in
densities ranging between 25 and 50 persons/km . About a third of the pro-
ject area is uninhabited. Eighty-five percent of the population are Nupes
with Hausas and nomadic Fulanis comprising small but important groups.
Language is predominantly Nupe and religion Islam. The average farm family
consists of seven persons and the project area contains about 80,000 farm
families. The agricultural population is stable; outward migration from the
project area is minimal and limited to the drift of young males to urban
areas. Inward migration from the north during the dry season is traditional,
but is probably small in the Bida area. The nomadic Fulani migrate south
through the area as the dry season advances.
4.12      Agriculture, fishing and forestry provide the main employment with
the former providing work for 5-6 months, or up to 9 months where fadama
rice is cultivated. Some 6,000 farm families (about 8% of total) earn their
living from inland fishing. Alternative employment exists on a very limited
scale and primarily consist of transport, construction work, retail trade,
secondary agricultural employment in rice mills, oilseed crushing, etc..
There is no reliable data on income levels in the area; rural wage rates range
between N 1.80 - N 2.00 (US$2.8 - US$3.1) per day excluding food. Mission
estimates indicate that the net farm income of an average 3.1 ha farm family
would be about N 415 equivalent to N 60 (US$92) per capita.
Land Tenure
4.13      A new Land Use Decree was promulgated on March 29, 1978 which will
put all agricultural land in Nigeria under the control of local governments.
A Land Allocation Advisory Committee will be established by State governments
in each LGA to advise the LGC regarding management of such land. Until the
new provisions are given effect, land ownership patterns in Niger State
will be governed by the provisions of the Land Tenure Law of the former
Northern Nigeria. It is too early to predict how effectively the provisions
of the new law will be administered; however, it is unlikely drastically to
alter the land ownership patterns and tenurial arrangements that currently
exist under the customary system (described below) or to delay or impede
project implementation.
4.14      West of the Kaduna river the so called communal land tenure system
operates, under which traditional leaders are the custodians of all land in
their areas of jurisdiction and are empowered to grant usufract to individuals/
families. All lands can be repossessed by the chief on the deaths or departures
of usufructuaries, but generally they are inheritable through the family. At



- 14 -
the discretion of the head of the family, land can also be divrided among its
members, leased out to other families or even to strangers; however, sale of
farmland is not allowed and is forbidden by law in some areas. Therefore,
communal ownership is restricted only to vacant, virgin or undistributed land,
and once an individual/family has been granted a piece of land, it becomes
their possession with full security of tenure. Nearly 80% of the farmland
west of the Kaduna river is estimated to be under these tenurial arrangements
and 20% on lease, loan or gift.
4.15       To the east of the Kaduna river, particularly in the vast fadamas,
a fief holder system is in existence. After the Fulani conquest of the
Nupe territory, members of the royal family appropriated all unused lands and
some village lands, which were subsequently bestowed to followers of the royal
family, members of the nobility and other individuals. These fiefholders
have de facto title to the lands which they usually sub let to other farmers,
who pay an annual tribute to the owner. Such transactions are regarded as
life tenancy or sale and the new tenants have alienation rights and full
tenurial security as long as tribute payments are maintained. It is estimated
that 50% of the areas east of Kaduna river are under the fiefholder system,
and the rest under the traditional communal system.
D. Land Use, Farm Structure and Farm Enterprises
Land Use and Farm Structure
4.16       An estimated 180,000 to 210,000 ha (about 12% of the land in the
project area) are cropped each year within a system of shifting cultivation.
Nearly 84% of the cultivated area is on the uplands. Ninety-nine percent
of the farms are subsistence farms; and a small group of commercial farms
(average size 25 ha) accounts for the remainder. By local definition, commer-
cial farms are operated with paid labor and are partly mechanized. These are
owned by local businessmen, chiefs and retired civil servants. Most are
poorly managed and supervised. Smallholder group farms are popular but due
to lack of support services have not flourished to their full potential.
4.17       With no shortage of cultivable land, holding sizes vary widely,
depending almost entirely on the labor available within the family. The
limited data indicates that the average family of seven members farms about
2.8-3.1 ha, and that 76% of farms are below 4 ha (accounting for 47% of
cultivated land). Larger farms are generally cultivated by extended families
working within the traditional system. Nearly 15% of the farms consist of a
combination of a small fadama farm with a larger upland farm (locally known
as bata and lati farms respectively). In areas where depositional valleys or
upper Niger terraces are predominant (as in Jima, Doko districts), fadama
components are over 1/3 of total holdings, whereas in areas with fewer
perennial streams and rivers, such as in Mokwa, only 6% of the holdings are
devoted to fadama cultivation. Details of land use, farm size, composition of
farms, and area under production are at Annex 1 Table 1.



- 15 -
Farm Labor
4.18      The family contributes about 80% of the total farm labor input.  The
number of persons in a farm family will generally vary between 6 and 11,
though some extended families consist of as many as 20-30 persons. A typical
farm family of seven is estimated to have labor availability of 3.9 adult
male equivalents, 44% of which is used on productive farm work (68% is con-
tributed by adult males), 22% on crop processing and marketing and about 34%
on domestic work. The cultivation capacity of an adult male is estimated at
about 1.8 ha (less for fadama farms) and, therefore, a farm family of 7 would
have sufficient labor for farming 3 ha without resorting to hired labor (see
Project File, Cl pp. 6-8).
4.19      When a farm relies for its labor on the full extended family, the
farm falls under the "efaco" system; when the farm family consists solely of a
farmer plus his wives and children, it is known as a "buca" farm. Break up of
the "efaco" system has reduced family labor availability and has encouraged
some use of non-family labor, particularly at peak periods. About 70% of
area farmers use non-family labor to some extent; 60% of all non-family
labor comprises hired labor, both daily paid and on contract. Young men
breaking out of the efaco system and smaller farmers constitute the pool of
laborers within the rural community, supplemented by seasonal migration from
the north and unemployed laborers from urban areas. Alternative sources are
traditional labor groups locally known as Dzaro and Egbe. The former comprise
10-12 close friends who work on each other's farms on an exchange basis,
but are also available for hire by non-members. The latter is a large village
group which could be called for agricultural or non-agricultural work by
elders or other influential villagers. Dazaro accounts for about 26% and
Egbe 13% of all non-family labor used in the area.
Farm Operations
4.20      The growing season of over 200 days permits sequential cultiva-
tion of a wide range of crops with different growing periods. Short season
crops are normally relay cropped, sometimes double cropped, while mixed or
intercropping is widely practiced. Cotton and rice are usually planted
sole; sorghum, millet, cassava, groundnuts and yam are mostly mixed. Planting
starts with the earliest maturing crops - early millet and maize, continues
with sorghum - the main staple, then moves on to cash crops like groundnuts,
cotton, rice and finally to higher value crops like chilli, okra and other
vegetables. A 4-7 year crop rotation coupled with a 6-15 year bush fallow is
normal east of the river Kaduna; to the west, cropping is similar but fallows
are longer. Rotations usually start with sorghum and/or yams (in some areas
Bambara nuts) and end with cassava. Sorghum, yam, early millet, groundnut and
cowpeas are dominant crops. Sorghum and millet account for 43% of the cropped
area, and rice, the other significant cereal, accounts for 19%.
4.21      Hand tools and implements dominate cultivation practices except
on some larger group/commercial farms where THU is employed (see para 3.04).
Use of chemical fertilizers has increased significantly during the past
years but still remains low at an average of less than 4 kg nutrients per ha.



- 16 -
Use of other inputs is limited to about 50 tons of improved paddy seed, some
improved seeds for upland crops and about 100 gallons of chemicals; thus the
potential for improvement is enormous.
4.22      Irrigation and Water Control is limited to paddy cultivation.  The
irrigated areas are either under "formal" schemes developed by Government or
under "informal" schemes initiated and constructed by farmers without assis-
tance. The latter usually consist of brushwood diversion structures and
rudimentary distribution systems or depend on inundation by impeded drainage.
The formal schemes (11 in the project area) cover 1,600 ha, have permanent
diversion structures and a main canal with some water controls; informal
schemes cover 4,000 ha. On both the schemes, water control measures are
unsatisfactory due to poor drainage systems, inadequate land planning and land
preparation.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
5.01      The primary objectives of the project are in accord with Federal
and State Government policies of increasing agricultural production and
raising farm incomes to improve the welfare and standards of living of the
farming population. The project would be implemented over f-ive years and
would benefit directly some 60,000 farmers of whom 99% would cultivate family
farms (average size 3 ha). The project would include:
(a) Farm and Crop Developme'nt: increasing production of about
54,000 ha of major subsistence and cash crops by intro-
ducing improved farming practices with extension advice,
improved seeds, fertilizer, crop protection measures, credit
and other support services, including the reorganization of
the Tractor Hire Unit (THU); establishing a farm management
advisory service to provide technical advice to some 500
commercial farms (average size 25 ha) and promote group
farming; establishing seed multiplication units; conducting
onfarm trials to test new technology and farming practices, and
rehabilitating three existing formal irrigation schemes, im-
proving water control on the existing 2,600 ha of informal
irrigation schemes, and developing 2,600 ha of inland valley
swamps.
(b) Civil Works: constructing and improving 650 km of low cost
gravelled feeder roads, and maintaining a total of up to
1,000 km of feeder roads; constructing project offices, stores,
4 area development centers, 23 farm service centers and staff
residences, and expanding MNR workshop facilities.



- 17 -
(c)  Institutional Support:  establishing a management unit with
the required technical and administrative staff, logistic
support and funds for implementing the project; evaluating
project progress, and developing guidelines for future
projects, and providing facilities for formal and in-service
training of agricultural field staff and overseas training
for more senior specialists.
(d)  Consultant Services:  assisting tNR to review state agricul-
tural policies and strategies; preparing a feasibility study
for a second phase project; reviewing and recommending
improvements to the existing private rice milling and other
agro-processing industry in the project area; preparing
detailed plans for management training and staff development
programs; and assisting MNR in start-up operations for the
project. A total of 50 man-months has been estimated for
these tasks.
B. Detailed Features
Farm and Crop Development
5.02      Precise estimates of farmer response and area coming under improved
farm management and agronomic practices are difficult. However, drawing
on the experience of similar ongoing projects in Nigeria, it is estimated that
nearly 75% (about 60,000) of the project area farm families would improve
cultivation on 61,000 ha, 30% of total cropped area. It is unlikely that all
participating farmers would follow recommendations for all the crops in
the rotation and/or improve their entire farms. It is estimated that 92%
(55,000) of the participating farmers would benefit from a Basic Services
Package (BSP) designed to effect simple improvements to the traditional
system of production, while the remaining 8% (5,000) consisting of the more
progressive individual farmers or farmer groups would accept an Advanced
Service Package (ASP) involving more intense implementation of the improved
technology, including appropriate changes in cropping systems and farming
practices. (Details at para 6.02). Schedules of farm and crop development
are at Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3.
5.03      Basic Services Package:  under the BSP production improvements are
expected for rice, sorghum, groundnuts, bambara nuts, yams and cassava cover-
ing about 39,600 ha. It is assumed that most of the BSP participants would
improve about a quarter (average 0.7 ha) of their farms. The main benefits
would accrue from modest applications of inorganic fertilizers, use of im-
proved and dressed seeds, increased planting densities and better disease,
insect, pest and weed control (also see para 6.02).
5.04      Advanced Service Package:  the total area to be farmed under ASP is
expected to total about 21,000 ha (34% of project improved area) and to
include 2,100 ha of paddy in the formal irrigation schemes, 2,600 ha of paddy



- 18 -
in the informal irrigation schemes, 2,500 ha of upland smallholder group farms
and 14,000 ha of commercial farms (average size 25 ha). ASP participants
would be encouraged to adopt a range of advanced production methods including
mechanization, use of pre-planting herbicides, fungicides and, in the case of
irrigated farms, better water control. Additionally, improved farming systems
would be introduced and better land use planning and soil conservation methods
would be encouraged. The advanced techniques are expected to be applied to a
range of new and traditional crops on the more progressive farms but in
particular to irrigated rice, maize, cowpeas and cotton (also see paras 6.02
and 6.05).
5.05      Smallholder Extension Services (SES) would be expanded and in-
tensified to provide the technical advice necessary for the diffusion of
the proposed technology. Present low MNR field staff:farmer ratio of 1:1,200
would be increased to 1:500, while timely and adequate supply of farm inputs
and services would be ensured. Extension services would be administered
through four Area Development Centers (ADC) established at each of the Local
Government Area (LGA) headquarters and at 23 Farm Service Centers (FSC)
established throughout the project area (see also para 5.14). Each FSC
would service an average of 3,500 farmers within a 10 km radius. Based on
the experience of ongoing agricultural development projects in Nigeria,
the proposed extension coverage is considered adequate.
5.06      Participating farmers would benefit from a number of specialized
services provided by the project including: assistance in designing improved
irrigation layouts, crop protection services, mechanization, farm trials, seed
multiplication and credit programs. Additionally, a farm management advisory
service would be established with the principal task of assisting group and
commercial farmers in land use planning, developing farm plans and introducing
improved farm systems.
5.07      Irrigation Development:  The project irrigation and water-use
development program would cover 7,300 ha and comprise the following: (see
paras 6.05 and 6.08 for technical details). (a) Expansion and Rehabilitation
of the Badeggi, Edozhigi and Loguma formal schemes from 1,600 ha (at present)
to about 2,100 ha: proposals for their rehabilitation and expansion have been
prepared by the Nigerian consultant company ENPLAN (see Project File B2). The
schemes are very similar to each other and require the rehabilitation of the
headworks, canal and drainage systems. The ENPLAN proposals are compatible
with current work carried out by the MNR irrigation engineers and are suffi-
ciently detailed to provide an adequate basis for project implementation,
subject to minor modification during execution of the works. The main im-
provements would be undertaken by contractors under the supervision of the
project's irrigation staff. On-farm field improvements would be carried out
by the farmers themselves (currently the average farm size over the three
schemes is 1 ha). The project would provide credit assistance. (b) Water
Control Improvements to 2,600 ha of farmer developed irrigation areas (in-
formal schemes): the schemes generally consist of largely inefficient diver-
sion structures and poorly laid out canals and bunds, resulting in inefficient
water use. The project would provide simple, inexpensive but efficient and



- 19 -
permanent diversion structures and head sluices, with properly traced and
constructed main canals and related canal structures. In addition, the
introduction of proper land planning and water control practices would result
in better land and water utilization. It is estimated that on average each
scheme would service 20 ha. The improvements would be executed by farmers
under the supervision and guidance of project staff, and credit would be
provided. Construction materials and labor for the headworks, main canal and
canal structures would be provided by the project. (c) Valley Swamp Develop-
ment would cover 2,600 ha and would be undertaken by the farmers under the
supervision of project staff. Currently, land preparation in valley bottoms
is minimal consisting, at most of a few ad hoc ridges or small bunds dividing
the land into plots. There is presently no attempt at real land planning and
layout (with related canaling and bunding) to ensure proper water control.
This results in paddy being washed away or badly damaged by high velocity
water, or excessive inundation due to poor drainage, or in some areas by water
deficits. The project would provide farmers with loans (see para 8.09) and
technical support to layout, canal and bund the swamps properly for improved
production of rice. Because of the nature of the valley swamp and the work
entailed, the task requires a group effort and as such is well suited to the
local farmers' traditions.
5.08      Table 1 shows the schedule of irrigation development.
Table 1                Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
-----------------------ha-------------------------
Formal Schemes:
Rehabilitation          685         710      275        -        -      1,670
Expansion                -           -       290       140       -        430
Subtotal            685         710     565        140      -       2,100
Informal Schemes:
Improvement             300         500     600        600      600     2,600
Inland Swamps:
Development             300         500     600        600      600     2,600
Total             1,285       1,710   1,765      1,340   1,200      7,300
5.09      Input Supplies.  The project would provide necessary input supplies
to farmers through its Commercial Services Department. Currently, only about
1,000 tons of chemical fertilizer, 50 tons of improved rice seeds and a few
tons of improved seeds for upland crops and insignificant quantities of field
and storage insecticides, herbicides etc. are used in the project area. By
Project Year 5, nearly 10,000 tons of chemical fertilizers, over 2,000 tons of
improved seeds and about 0.25 million Naira worth of various chemicals would



- 20 -
be used annually by project farmers. In addition, improved hand tools, farm
equipment (see para 5.12) and maize stores would also be made available (Annex
1, Table 5). Timely supply of farm inputs in adequate quantities is essential
for the uptake of the new technology. In the light of delays experiencer in
the supply of fertilizer to ongoing Bank-assisted projects (see para 2.20),
assurances were obtained at negotiations that fertilizer procurement under ICB
would be undertaken according to a strict timetable agreed between FMG and the
Bank, who would jointly monitor progress, and that the system of procurement
by CFU would be reviewed after two years. Because of the high fertilizer and
chemical subsidies the need for credit is limited, but it would be available
when necessary at the FSCs. Details of the credit program are at paras 8.08
through 8.12.
5.10      Seed Multiplication and Field Trials:  The MNR irrigated seed
multiplication farms at Badeggi (6.5 ha) and Edozhigi (14.5 ha) would be
expanded to meet the requirements of increased demand for seed rice; pro-
ductivity would be increased through improved water control, land preparation
and technical supervision; proper threshing and drying facilities would be
constructed. A new 200 ha upland farm would be established for first stage
multiplication of seed cotton, sorghum, maize and groundnuts. Although
no problems are anticipated in obtaining land for this purpose, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the State Government would make this land
available to the project no later than 31 December 1979. The existing con-
tract grower scheme would be strengthened and the project would ensure im-
proved quality control. Stock seeds for paddy would be obtained from BRRS
and, for other upland crops, from IITA and IAR. The project would also
maintain the existing MNR tree crop nurseries for production of fruit tree
seedlings.
5.11      The project would establish a small field trials unit to test and
adapt research recommendations under field conditions. The unit would work in
close liaison with and provide a feed back service to research organizations,
and to the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
(APMEPU) at Kaduna. Special attention would be paid to the testing of im-
proved seeds and technology.
5.12      Tractor Hire Unit.  The THU at Bida and Agaie would be reorganized
to make it operationally efficient and cost effective. The inoperative
equipment would be replaced or repaired and the scope of operations would be
expanded to include rental of power tillers and other small equipment.
The operations would be commercially oriented and THU charges would cover all
variable costs plus 10% for overheads. The reequipped MNR workshop at Bida
would be the main center for repairs; the ADCs would do minor repairs and
maintenance, while a mobile repair unit would provide field servicing. The
facilities would be available to private owners of farm equipment on payment
of appropriate charges. Private ownership of farm equipment would be encour-
aged through advisory services and training facilities for prospective owners/
operators.



- 21 -
Civil Works
5.13      Roads:  The project would construct 620 km and upgrade about 30 km
of existing feeder roads (see para 6.08 for standards) and subsequently
maintain them (details at Annex 1, Table 5). Over 40% of the new roads would
provide access to rice growing fadamas. Construction costs for these roads
would be high because major earthwork and embankment construction involving
haulage of construction materials from relatively distant areas would be
required. Roads linking the main farming areas and the proposed farm service
centers would comprise about 60% of the project roads. Year-round passage
through the State roads in the project area is important for project implemen-
tation. However, nearly 65% of these roads are not properly repaired; the
project would, therefore, assume responsibility for maintaining about 140 km
of State roads until 1980; funds have been provided for the required equip-
ment, operating costs and staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that, no later than 30 June, 1983, the State Government would prepare and
agree with the Bank detailed plans for long-term maintenance of project area
roads including the allocation of responsibility between MWH and the LGCs,
funding procedures, and logistical support.
5.14      Buildings and Houses.  In view of the acute shortage of accommo-
dation in the area, the project provides for a major construction program
including 28 senior, 19 intermediate and 76 junior staff houses, and some
low cost housing. Four ADCs at Agaie, Lapai, Bida and Kutigi would be built,
and 23 farm service centers at strategic locations, each with storage, an
office, staff houses and some equipment-servicing facilities; additionally, a
headquarters complex with storage, workshop and other facilities would be
constructed at Bida. These structures would, in the long run, provide the
LGCs and MNR the required infrastructure for agricultural support services.
Details of unit costs and building requirements are at Annex 2, table 9.
Institutional Support
5.15      Following the successful lead of existing ongoing projects, the
Bida Project Management Unit (BPMU) would be established to implement the
project (see paras 8.01 - 8.04). BPMU would be established at Bida as a
special unit of MNR and some of BPMU's operations would impact on MNR opera-
tions outside the project area. For example, BPMU would establish a Monitor-
ing Evaluation and Planning Unit (MEPU) that would not only focus on project
operations, but would also provide an input into the State's long term
planning needs. MEPU would receive technical assistance from the Agricultural
Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (APMEPU) in Kaduna, with
which it would liaise closely. MEPU would also include a schistosomiasis sur-
veillance program for monitoring the incidence and effect of this disease in
the irrigation and swamp development areas, the results and recommendations of
which are expected to be applicable to other areas with similar conditions,
and would also form an important component of any future health program for
the area. Because of BPMU's close linkage with MNR, many of the technical
innovations developed under the project would be easily transferable to the
rest of the state. Most importantly, as BPMU operations involve 40% of the
State's population, the impact on the future administration of rural develop-
ment at State and LGC level could be considerable.



- 22 -
5.16      Training.  The project itself is a massive training effort in
improved agricultural and rural administration, and would provide a sound
basis for on-the-job experience and training under reasonably controlled
conditions, where the objectives of management and farm development would be
properly established. Experience to date shows clearly that in such circum-
stances, Nigerian staff will perform more effectively and learn rapidly by
experience. The project would supplement on-the-job experience with: (a)
technical training - specialized training courses would be established to
train all levels of staff in the specific needs of the project. This training
would be related to, and would supplement, state training courses where they
exist. Thus, short courses would be developed for agriculturaL staff, irri-
gation technicians, mechanics, bookkeepers, storemen,salesmen, etc. Addi-
tionally, selected staff would be sent overseas for specific technical train-
ing currently not available in Nigeria; (b) staff development and management
training - would have high priority, and to expedite this component the
project would employ a senior training officer with experience in staff
development. Furthermore, consultants would be retained (see para 5.20(d)) to
assist in preparation of a staff development and management training program
to meet the needs of the project. Selected project staff would have the
opportunity of overseas training in specific management skills if such train-
ing is not available in Nigeria; and (c) farmer training - wou:Ld be carried
out through group meetings using audio visual aids. Practical on-farm demon-
strations would play an important role in farmer training.
5.17      The senior training officer attached to APMEPU in Kaduna would work
in close collaboration with BPMU's training officer in developing new training
techniques. He would be responsible for monitoring the training program, and
ensuring that it maintained the necessary impetus to meet the targets estab-
lished by the consultants.
5.18      The BPMU senior training officer would be responsible for working
with state officials in developing adequate training programs outside the
project area, in anticipation of an expansion of the project to other parts
of the state at a later date. He would also work closely with the project
area LGC to develop training programs for LGC staff, particularly in areas
related to project activities, i.e. road maintenance and administration. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that he would be appointed no later
than 31 December 1979.
5.19      To facilitate the training program, the Farm Training Center at
Bida (para 3.07) would be expanded to train an additional 30 field overseers
annually, and the Agaie Farm Institute would be upgraded to train 25 field
overseers annually. Additional dormitories, classrooms, and offices would
be built.
Consultant Services
5.20      The project would provide 50 man-months (costed at US$8,000 per
man-month) of consultant services to assist MNR and BPMU in specific areas
where local skills are not available, or where short term suppLementation is



- 23 -
required. The estimated cost of consultancy is US$8,000 per man month, which
consists of US$5,000 fee and an allowance of US$3,000 for travel and per diem.
Specifically, the consultants would: (a) review agricultural development
policies, priorities and strategies. The consultants would be required to
develop a policy and strategy paper for the period 1980-1989, consistent with
Federal and State Government policies; in addition they would identify and
prepare briefs for suitable projects including projects for livestock and
fisheries (10 man-months); (b) prepare a feasibility study for the second
phase of the Bida project, assuming that early indications are positive as to
both the success of the project and the commitment of the State to long term
development. The consultants (22 man-months) would work in close cooperation
with MNR and with BPMU, and would take into consideration the recommendations
established under (a) above; (c) review and make recommendations for improve-
ment and development of the existing private rice milling operations in the
project area, and other agroprocessing operations (6 man-months). The review
would include the identification of constraints to the expansion of present
operations, the possibility of diversification, the need for technical assis-
tance to and training for the private sector, and an estimate of the expansion
required for increased grain production, as well as cost estimates to support
the proposals. The outcome of the review would provide long term benefits to
the project area population, and could possibly be linked with future Bank
involvement in small scale industrial development through the Nigerian Indus-
trial Development Bank; (d) provide detailed plans for establishing management
training and staff development programs for project staff. The consultant
(9-man-months) would assist the BPMU senior training officer in this regard
(see para 5.16(b)) and would subsequently, in conjunction with APMEPU, visit
the project on a yearly basis to assess the progress of staff training (e)
assist the project in the early months after loan signature in the start up
of project operations (3 man-months).
5.21      The consultants are likely to be recruited internationally, and
could come from consulting firms or as individuals. In either case, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that BPMU would be responsible for the
preparation of detailed terms of reference for review by the Bank, that terms
of reference for consultants would be acceptable to the Bank and that consul-
tants would be appointed with qualifications, experience and on conditions and
terms satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
5.22      Project costs during the five-year development period 1979/80-1983/84
are estimated at N 41.8 million (US$64.4 million) of which N 14.9 million
(US$23.0 million) or 36% would be foreign exchange costs. Excluding taxes and
and duties, estimated at N ;.1 mn (US$3.2 mn), project costs equal N 39.7 mn
(US$61.2 in). Base costs are estimated on prices obtained during appraisal
updated to reflect baseline costs expected in end-1978. Farm inputs are
costed at full landed price in Bida and on an incremental basis. Project
operating costs are incremental to existing Government expenditures of N 0.3
million per annum. Costs include:



- 24 -
a)   physical contingencies equal to 5% of base costs for all
items except for roads and irrigation costs where 15% is
estimated;
b)   price contingencies for foreign costs in accordance with
the Bank's general guidelines, calculated on base costs
plus physical contingencies, and based on the following
annual rates of price inflation.
Inflation Rate (%)
1978   1979   1980-1985
Vehicle, plant equipment,
spare parts and farm inputs                7.0      6.5      6.0
Civil works, buildings, houses,
road construction and construc-
tion materials                             8.0      7.5      7.0
Salaries, consultants, and
technical assistance                       7.0      7.0       7.0
c)   price contingency for local costs of 20% compounded
annually except for salaries and labor employed directly
by the project where an annual estimate of 13% is used.
5.23      Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis are equiv-
alent to 32% of total costs or 48% of baseline costs. Details of project
costs are presented in Annex 2, tables 1-8 and are summarized in Table 2
below.



- 25 -
Table 2                     Summary of Project Costs
N million          US$ Million                %
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Baseline Total
Irrigation Development          3.1    1.5    4.6    4.7    2.3    7.0          16       11
Roads & Engineering             2.2    2.3    4.5    3.4    3.5    6.9          15       11
Buildings & Housing             3.6    2.3    5.9    5.5    3.5    9.0          21       14
Incremental Farm Inputs         0.7    2.0    2.7    1.0    3.2    4.2          10       7
Medium-term Cash Loans          0.7    ...    0.7    1.1    ...    1.1           3        2
Project Administration
Overheads                     2.2    1.3    3.5    3.4    2.0    5.4          12       8
Consultant Services             ...    0.3    0.3    ...    0.4    0.4           1        1
Commercial Services             1.7    0.9    2.6    2.6    1.4    4.0           9        6
Other Agricultural and
Training Services             3.3    1.7    5.0    5.1    2.7    7.8          18      12
Sub-total                      17.5   12.3   29.8   26.8   19.0   45.8
Less Pre-development
Costs                         1.2    0.3    1.5    1.8    0.5    2.3          (5)     (4)
Total Base Costs               16.3   12.0   28.3   25.0   18.5   43.5         100       68
Physical Contingencies          1.1    0.6    1.7    1.7    1.0    2.7                    4
Price contingencies             9.5    2.3   11.8   14.8    3.4   18.2                   28
Total Project Costs            26.9   14.9   41.8   41.4   23.0   64.4                 100
Percentage                     64      36     100    64      36      100
5.24      Project costs and price contingencies have been calculated on the
assumption that the exchange rate between the naira and the dollar will remain
fixed at 1.54 throughout the project period. This closely reflects the exper-
ience of recent years during which time the exchange rate changed relatively
little despite a rate of domestic inflation in Nigeria which consistently ex-
ceed international inflation by a significant margin.
5.25      The estimated of project cost in dollar terms would be affected by
a change in exchange rate policy. If, for example, there were to be a 25%
devaluation to compensate for the system of import duties and export incen-
tives currently in force and if the exchange rate were to be adjusted there-
after to compensate fully for the relatively high rate of domestic inflation
projected for future years, then the local component of project costs would
be lower when expressed in dollar terms. Under these assumptions the local
components of project costs would amount to $25.8 million compared with the
$41.4 million estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate. Total
project costs would, therefore, amount to only $48.8 million (compared with



- 26 -
$64.4 million estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate) and the
share of total project cost financed by the Bank loan would be 47 percent
(compared with 36 percent estimated on the basis of the present exchange
rate.)
D. Proposed Financing
5.26      Of the total project cost of N 41.8 million (US$64.4 million),
the Bank would finance N 14.9 million (US$23.0 million) at the lending rate
current at the time of loan approval and for a period of 20 years including
a 5-year grace period. The Bank loan would cover 36% of total project costs,
equivalent to the foreign exchange cost; FMG would finance N 10.5 million
(US$16.1 million) or 25% of project cost; and NSG N 16.4 million (US$25.3
million) or 39%.  Fertilizer and other chemicals would be sold to farmers at
Federal and State established subsidized prices.  If subsidies are continued
at present levels (about 85% for fertilizer and chemicals), the Federal and
State Governments would be required to contribute an additional amount of
N 4.1 million (US$6.3 million) to the project to cover the equivalent of such
subsidies on inputs delivered to project farmers (see para 5.27). A separate
bank account for BPMU would be opened with a commercial bank with an initial
deposit of N 1.0 million. This would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Table 3 summarizes the proposed financing plan.
Table 3:           Proposed Financing Plan by Expense Category
(N million)
Total    IBRD    FMG      NSG    % Distribution
Civil works                         8.5      3.4    2.0       3.1          20
Vehicles and equipment              5.2       4.2    0.4      0.6          13
Local salaries and wages           10.0       ...    3.9      6.1          24
International staff and
consultants                       3.1      3.1    ...      ...            7
Operating costs                     5.4       ...    2.1      3.3          13
Farm inputs                         3.9       3.0    0.4      0.5            9
Irrigation and water
development                       5.0      1.2    1.5      2.3           12
Medium term loans                   0.7       ...    0.2      0.5            2
Total N million              41.8      14.9   10.5    16.4           100
Total US$ million             64.4     23.0   16.1    25.3
Percentage distribution                36      25      39



- 27 -
5.27      The Bank loan would be made to the Federal Government who would
onlend it on the same terms and conditions to Niger State Government. The
signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between FMG and NSG, covering both
onlending of the Bank loan and the FMG contribution to NSG, would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness.
5.28      Appraisal estimates show project operating costs as incremental
to existing Government expenditure on agriculture in the project area (esti-
mated at N 0.3 million per annum) and an assurance was obtained that, in
addition to its contribution to incremental costs, NSG would continue to
finance the present real level of government expenditures in the project
area. Ongoing projects are suffering from inadequate and delayed govern-
ment funding and, to alleviate this problem, additional assurances were
obtained during negotiations that:
a) BPMU would submit to the FMARD, the State MNR and the Bank,
the project's proposed annual budget (see para. 5.29), as approved
by the Project Executive Committee, at least 4 months prior to the
commencement of the upcoming fiscal year; b) FMG and NSG would
provide at least 3 months in advance their quarterly contribution
to the project in accordance with the approved annual budget (para
5.29); c) Bank disbursements would be made directly to BPMU's
commercial bank account (para 5.26); d) BPMU would have authority
to establish overdraft facilities equivalent to six months project
expenditure requirements as estimated in the annual State approved
budget, and that the overdraft would be guaranteed by NSG; e) FMG
and NSG subventions covering the estimated cost of subsidies on
farm inputs would be received by BPMU no later than September in
the year prior to procurement.
E. Programming and Budgeting
5.29      Annual budgets would be prepared by Bida Project Management Unit
(BPMU) based on appraisal estimates, amended where necessary to reflect
changes in costs and project development policies. These would be submitted
to the Bida Project Executive Committee (BPEC) for approval. BPMU would also
prepare statements of estimated quarterly cash flow requirements which would
be submitted to BPEC, and BPMU would operate on the basis of these statements
unless informed otherwise. BPMU would prepare, for prompt submission to the
Bank, quarterly and annual progress reports including summaries of expendi-
tures and use of funds. On the basis of the approved annual budgets, the
State and Federal Governments would make budgetary allocations and, there-
after, would make available to BPMU all necessary funds quarterly and in
advance (see para 5.28(b)).



- 28 -
F. Accounts and Audits
5.30      BPMU would keep records in accordance with sound accounting prac-
tices, to reflect its operational and financial position and would have
these audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited
accounts and the auditor's report, including a statement as to whether or not
Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose, would be submitted to the
Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
G. Procurement and Disbursement
5.31      Procurement:  Contracts for fertilizers, chemicals, vehicles,
tractors and heavy equipment valued at US$100,000 or more with an estimated
aggregate cost of about N 6.5 million (US$10.0 million) net of contingencies
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) and in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Local competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be employed for contracts over
US$30,000 but less than US$100,000. For contracts of less than US$30,000
local competitive shopping would be employed. Items for procurement would be
bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. Domestically manufac-
tured goods would be allowed 15% preference or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers.
Contracts for houses, stores, buildings and the formal irrigation works valued
at about N 7.8 million (US$12.0 million) would not be attractive to foreign
contractors due to dispersed location and small size of contracts; such
contracts would therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Construction of roads
valued at N 1.4 million (US$2.2 million) and of headworks and canals for
irrigation schemes valued at N 0.9 million (US$1.4 million) would be under-
taken by the project on force account due to a continuing shortage of depend-
able contractors able to undertake this type of work. A large part of the
project cost would be salaries, and operating expenses, valued at about N 8.9
million (US$13.7 million) which are unsuitable for competitive bidding. The
services of consultants and internationally recruited staff valued at N 2.4
million (US$3.8 million) would be obtained in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. An amount of N 13.5 million (US$20.9 million) would
cover contingencies.
5.32      Disbursement:  The Bank loan would be disbursed during 1979-1984 as
in the schedule below (details are at Annex 2, Table 11). All expenditures
would be fully documented. Disbursements for works under Category III or IV,
if undertaken on force account, would be made against certificates of expendi-
ture, the supporting documents for which would not be submitted for review
but retained by B.P.M.U. for inspection by the Bank during supervision mis-
sions, and by the auditors. The management structure and staffing of the
project, and the built-in controls, are suitable for operating this system
of documentation.



- 29 -
Category I      100% of the foreign expenditure on directly imported ve-
hicles, tractors, heavy equipment and spare parts (or if
locally procured 90% of expenditure) totalling US$6.0
million;
Category II    100% of the foreign expenditure on directly imported
fertilizer, chemicals and other farm inputs (or if locally
procured 85% of expenditure) totalling US$4.4 million;
Category III   100% of foreign expenditure on construction costs and mate-
rials for project offices and houses (including furnishings)
and feeder roads (or 45% of total expenditure) totalling
US$4.3 million;
Category IV    100% of foreign expenditure on construction of formal irri-
gation schemes and construction materials for informal
schemes, excluding farm land development (or 25% of total
expenditure) totalling US$1.3 million;
Category V      100% of salaries and allowances of internationally recruited
staff, fees for consultancy services and overseas training
of local staff, totalling US$4.7 million;
Categroy VI    An unallocated amount of US$2.3 million.
VI. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
Crop Development
6.01      Crop development proposals are based on the ecological and edaphic
conditions in the project area, the socio-economic constraints and the farm
families' labor availability. The proposed technology is simple, relatively
inexpensive and easily implementable; its adoption would neither necessitate
any relocation of the farming population, nor require major changes in the
cropping pattern, farm sizes or tenurial arrangements. The agronomic recommen-
dations (summarized in Annex 1, Table 4) reflect research recommendations,
performance under field conditions, and experience from ongoing projects in
northern Nigeria. Modifications would be made when required through the
project field trials unit (see para 5.11).
6.02      The improved technology would involve the use of improved dressed
seeds (except for bambara and yam for which none is available); appropriate
fertilizer use; insect, pest and disease control, and improved cultivation
(land preparation, water control, weeding, higher plant population, timely
farm operations) and post-harvest practices. Advanced technology involving,
in addition to the above, pre-planting herbicides, fungicides and mechanical
aids would be recommended on the more progressive farms for all crops in the
proposed rotation except cassava and bambara. Mechanical land preparation
and use of preplanting herbicides would be encouraged for cotton, maize, rice



- 30 -
and sorghum on the more progressive farms and group farms; mecha1nical lifters
and shellers would be introduced on the larger groundnut farms,,and power
tillers and paddy threshers on irrigated rice. Fungicides for cercospora
control in groundnuts and leaf-blast in paddy, and insecticides for paddy,
maize, cowpea, yams and cotton would be encouraged; controlled droplet appli-
cation (CDA) of herbicides and insecticides using ultra low volume (ULV)
sprayers would be introduced for cowpea, yams and cotton; yam setts would be
dusted prior to planting while maize cobs would be dusted before storing.
Cribs for maize would be introduced to ease drying problems during rains. For
the majority of crops there is little or no difference in yieLds between
improved and advanced farming practices. Income differences (see para. 9.01)
are, however, significant and are due primarily to reduction in labor inputs
(particularly during the May and August peaks), through the use of herbicides
and mechanical cultivations (para. 9.01) thus allowing more timely farm
operations and more intensive management. Additionally, double cropping (with
rice and/or vegetables) would be possible on some irrigated farms.
6.03      The introduction of the technical package is expected to affect
both subsistence and cash crops. Some minor adjustments within the cropping
pattern are anticipated, however, whereby cowpeas, maize, and cotton will
probably increase slightly in relative importance. The overall cultivated
area is estimated to grow at an annual rate of about 2.5%, roughly equal to
population increase, but the increase in the total cropped area should not be
at the expense of the bush fallow period as land is not yet a constraint.
Average yield increases for the traditional crops of sorghum, groundnuts,
bambara nuts, yams and cassava of from 15 to 30% should be within the capacity
of the BSP farmers. Average yield increases for rice, maize, cowpeas and
cotton are much greater (48%, 100%, 350% and 150% respectively), and reflect
the very low yields already existing, and the proven and far better technical
packages that are to be introduced to the farmer. These increased yields are
still 30-40% less than could be achieved if recommended practices were prop-
erly followed. Table 4 opposite summarizes project impact on the yields of
various crops in the project area (see Annex 1, Table 3 for details).
6.04      Based on experience in similar projects, it can be stated with
confidence that the increased yields indicated in Table 4 are attainable.
However, it should be noted that the actual output mix will depend not only
on the yield potential of individual crops, but also in part on the relative
economic incentives prevailing in years to come. As this structure of incen-
tives is likely to change during the life of the project, in ways which cannot
be predicted now, modifications in the projected production mix are to be ex-
pected. It is impossible, therefore, to predict the precise product mix at
the end of the project period with any degree of certainty, but on the basis
of the production increases in Table 4, the volume of project area output
would rise by about 42% over the project period, or by 28% after allowing for
population increase. At financial prices, the value of project area output
would rise by aabout 45% or, after allowance for population growth, by about
32%, an annual growth in value terms of about 5% attributable to project
activities.



31 -
Table 4                           Yields and Aggregate Production
Crop                 Pre-Project              Post Project 1/           Incremental 2/
Total    Per ha 3/       Total    Per ha 3/        Total    Per ha 3/
'000 tons    ton         '000 tons    ton          '000 tons    ton
Sorghum            40.2        0.60          54.3        0.72        8.8  (22)  0.12  (20)
Rice               39.6        0.99          59.7        1.47       14.1  (36)  0.48  (48)
Maize               1.9        0.60           9.5        1.19        7.4 (389)  0.59  (98)
Groundnuts          7.0        0.50           9.7        0.61        1.8  (16)  0.11  (22)
Bambara nuts        4.8        0.40           6.4        0.51        1.0  (21)  0.11  (28)
Cowpeas             1.7        0.12           3.3        0.42        1.4  (82)  0.30 (250)
Yams               70.0        5.00          92.8        5.74       13.6  (19)  0.74  (15)
Cassava            56.0        4.00          75.2        4.82       11.8  (21)  0.82  (21)
Cotton              0.3        0.30           3.0        0.75        2.7 (900)  0.45 (150)
1/   At the end of Project Year 5.  Includes an assumed 2.5% p.a. natural
increase in project area production.
2/   Total incremental from project action.  Figures in parenthesis show percentage
increases.
3/   Average yields for the area.
6.05      Formal Irrigation Schemes.  Rehabilitation of the Badeggi, Edozhigi
and Loguma irrigation schemes would involve masonry repairs to headworks and
main channels, installing new steel gates and lifting gear in the bay control
structures; supplying regulating planks to drop structures, repairing foot
bridges, drainage, over and under-crossings; earthwork for regrading, recon-
ditioning and repairing main, distributing and field channels; repairs of
off-takes, etc. (details in Project File C-3). Technical specifications
contained in the ENPLAN consultants' report dated September 1977 (see para
5.07) are satisfactory and would be the basis for the rehabilitation work.
Based on the water and land availability it is estimated that rehabilitation
would allow expansion of the command areas of the three schemes by another
430 ha, most of which would be in the Badeggi (290 ha) and Edozhigi (100 ha)
areas. The average cost for rehabilitation is N 645 (US$987) and for expansion
N 2,500/ha (US$3,825). These costs do not include field bunding and levelling,
tasks that are carried out by the farmers for an estimated N 200/ha (US$306)
(see para 8.09 for credit arrangements).
6.06      Informal Irrigation Schemes:  Project proposals involve contruction
of simple planked open-bay diversion structures (each bay about 1.5 m),
concrete floor and stilling basin (or rip-rap protection); main sluice and
properly surveyed irrigation canals with structures (e.g. off-takes, spill-
ways, crossings). The canal has been costed on an average length of 2.5 km
per scheme of 20 ha. The estimated cost is N 5,600/scheme. Land development,
including canaling, drainage and field funding, below the off-takes of the
main canal would be the responsibility of the farmers. They will, however,
receive technical guidance and supervision from project staff, and credit
assistance (para. 8.09).



- 32 -
6.07      Valley Swamps:  Water control measures would be kept simple and
inexpensive. IBRD chart 13265 shows the basic layout. The main drainage
canals would be in trapezoidal sections with 1.2 m to 3 m average cut width
and 0.5 m to 0.6 m cut depths, and would be laid out along the natural trough
of the swamp. The main canal would be linked to a system of subsidiary canals
for conveying the drainage flow from swamp bays. Irrigation canals, 0.5 m to
0.6 m wide and deep, would be constructed along the periphery of the swamps'
development zone. The head of the development zone of the swamp would be
bunded across by a simple earthen head-bund made with stick and mud. The
main drainage canal would connect on to the head bund. The development zone
served by the above system would be divided into suitably sized paddy plots of
about 0.05 ha to 0.1 ha, depending on the natural contour of the land, by
small ridges and bunds. These would be constructed by the farmers themselves
with technical assistance from project staff (see para 8.09 for credit arrange-
ments). Since the land is already planted to rice on an annual basis, necessary
land readjustments would be made by the farmers themselves and no problems are
anticipated in this regard. The same would apply to the informal irrigation
schemes described in para 6.06 above.
Feeder Roads
6.08      Project roads would be simple properly compacted earth roads with
culverts and small bridges. Design standards would vary depending upon the
terrain and expected volume of traffic; however, the primary considerations
would be to: (a) ensure adequate compaction to stand up to truck axle loads
of at least 9,000 kg; and (b) provide satisfactory drainage including a
central crown of not less than 15 cm, continuous road side ditches of not less
than 50 cm depth and offshoot drains and culverts adequate for transporting
and disposing of flash flood waters. The naturally occurring soils in the
area mostly consist of grained sands with a clay content of 10-30%, and would
be used for embankment construction. All the roads would have laterite
surfaces about 100 mm - 150 mm thick. The compacted road width would be about
5.2 m with a 2 m ditch and shoulder on either sides. Total right of way would
be 12 m with a turning radius of about 80 m and a design speed of 40-50 km/hr.
60 and 90 cm precast concrete pipes would be used for culvert construction;
bridges would have 3 to 5 m spans, with abutments in stone masonry or mass
concrete, steel girders and timber decking. In view of labor limitations
heavy equipment such as bulldozers, graders and self-propelled rollers would
be widely used in road construction and maintenance. The project would
provide sufficient equipment for the maintenance of the project area roads.
The project's Engineering Department would work with the four LGCs to improve
the maintenance of the many small roads not affected by BPMU, and to ensure a
smooth takeover of project constructed roads by the LGCs prior to project
completion.
Buildings
6.09      Staff houses would have floor areas between 115 and 180 m ; the
headquarters would consist of an office block (1,800 m ), a workshop (450



- 33 -
m2), a central store (250 m ), and a guest house (200 m ); the Area De- 2
velopment  Centers and 2he Farm Service Centers would have stores of 400 m
(1,000 ton)   and 200 m  (500 ton) size, respectively, in addition to office
space. Fifteen percent of the building costs have been provided for furnish-
ing, 3% for design (where necessary) and 20% for site and service development.
The above specifications are in line with experience from ongoing projects.
VII. DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Demand and Marketing
7.01      Assuming average Nigerian consumption data is applicable to the
project area, current per capita consumption of foodgrains is about 195 kg
(root crops included as grain equivalents), implying aggregate annual con-
sumption of about 130,000 tons. Of this, about 47% is root crops, 35% coarse
grains, 5% rice and 13% minor grains. In the project area, rice is estimated
to be in surplus, other grains in approximate balance and root crops in
deficit. At full development, (1985-1986) total net availability of food
grains in the project area (including project incremental production) would be
about 183,000-140,000 tons of cereals and 43,000 tons of root staples (in
grain equivalents).  On the conservative assumption of no change in per capita
consumption and tastes and preferences, total consumption demand in 1985 would
increase to about 150,000 tons of grains - 78,000 tons of cereals and 72,000
tons of root crops (in grain equivalent) - as a result of population increase
in the area.  In 1985 rice, sorghum, maize and groundnuts are estimated to be
in net surplus in the project area while millet, cowpeas, bambara and root
crops would still be in deficit. The net grain surplus (i.e. 33,000 tons)
would be less than 2% of Nigeria's projected national deficit in 1985, and
would therefore have a ready domestic market. There is a long established
network of processing infrastructure and a commercially oriented trading class
and no major institutional changes in the marketing system would be required
to handle the increased volume of marketed surplus. However, improvements in
the paddy milling and cereal grinding establishements, which presently suffer
from inadequate management, lack of spare parts and repair facilities, would
be required along with on-farm storage improvement. The project would ini-
tiate improvement in maize storage (see para 6.02) while technical assistance
would be provided for identifying the needs and scope for improvements in the
processing and marketing of other food crops (see para 5.20). Nigeria imports
over 10,000 tons of seed cotton, and with an expanding domestic textile
industry, project incremental production would find an easy market. There is
an underutilized ginnery at Kontogora, close to the project area, which could
absorb project production.
B. Prices
7.02      Except for cotton, all crops in the project area are freely
traded in local markets and prices are determined by relevant supply and



- 34 -
demand conditions. The Government purchase price for cotton (currently
N 308/ton) is about 80% of financial and 64% of economic fob Lagos values
and is considered satisfactory. The minimum price for shelled groundnut
(N 275/ton) is about 93% and 84% of financial and economic farmgate prices,
respectively, based on hypothetical import substitution. However it is about
20% lower than actual prevailing market prices and reflects a situation of
excess local demand for edible oils. Annual food imports, averaging about 1%
of total consumption demand, have had minimal effect on the higher domestic
prices of most food items which are currently at levels higher than import
parity or statutory minimum prices. Given Government priority for non-
agricultural imports, the available foreign exchange resources, and logistic
difficulties in respect of importation and internal distribution, relatively
high food grain prices are expected to continue in domestic markets for some
time to come. On the whole, then, the overall price outlook for project crops
is favorable.
7.03      Economic prices for rice, sorghum, groundnuts, and cotton were
based on IBRD world price forecasts; financial prices for these crops (for
farm budgets) reflect local market conditions and/or Governiment statutory
prices. Financial and economic farmgate prices for yam, cowpeas, cassava and
bambara nuts were based on price trends in Bida and other Nigerian markets.
The prices used in project economic and financial analysis,, together with
statutory minimum prices, are detailed at Annex 3, tables L and 2.
VIII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Mangement
8.01      The project would be implemented under the Niger State MNR through
a semi-autonomous management unit, the Bida Project Management Unit (BPMU),
which would be responsible to the Bida Project Executive Committee (BPEC).
BPMU would, at project level, be advised by the Bida Project Technical Coor-
dination Committee (BPTCC). BMPU and BPEC would have terms of reference
similar to those established for the ongoing projects of Funtua, Gusau, Gombe,
Ayangba and Lafia. The NSG would publish in its official gazette a notice
establishing BPMU and BPEC with terms of reference and composition acceptable
to the Bank, and this would be a condition of effectiveness.
8.02      The BPEC would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MNR and would
include representatives from the State Ministries of Finance and Economic
Development; Works and Housing; Trade, Industry and Cooperatives; Local
Government; Health, and a representative from the FMAWR; representatives of
the Lavun, Agaie, Gbako and Lapai LGCs and the project manager. The chief
administrative officer of BPMU would act as secretary of BPEC. BPEC would,
inter alia, determine project policy, exercise budgetary and financial con-
trol, approve annual work programs, appoint senior technical and management
staff and determine their conditions of service and ensure cooperation and
coordination between Niger State ministries in project implementarion.



--  j     -
8.03      BPMU would undertake project implementation and would be responsible
to the BPEC. It would take over the MNR agricultural services (excluding the
fisheries section) and the produce inspection divisions in the project area.
MNR forestry, irrigation and livestock divisions would continue to function in
the area independently of BPMU; however, project irrigation development would
be implemented by a special unit within BPMU. During the five-year project
development period BPMU would administer the small existing LGC extension
services. BPMU would have a large degree of operational and financial auto-
nomy but would liaise and coordinate its activities with other relevant public
agencies in the area to minimize duplication of programs and facilitate
post-project management. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a)
MNR would give high priority to BPMU staff recruitment and as far as possible
promptly accede to BPMU requests for secondment of MNR technical and other
staff to the project; and (b) Niger State would transfer to the project
responsibility for all agricultural extension work in the project area, no
later than 1 April, 1980.
8.04      The project organization is shown on IBRD Chart 18603.  The apex
of BPMU would be the project manager's office, which would include the key
administrative and financial divisions. Reporting to the project manager
would be five departments or units: (a) Training Unit would be responsible
for training of project staff, farmers, cooperative staff and LGC staff, and
for overall staff development; (b) Monitoring Evaluation and Planning Unit
would monitor and evaluate project technical and economic progress, collect
planning data, conduct land use surveys, and prepare land planning data. The
Unit would also be responsible for the schistosomiasis section that would
monitor and recommend controls for schistosomiasis related problems in the
irrigation areas; (c) Commercial Services Department would be responsible for
farm input supplies, credit administration, tractor hire to farmers, crop
protection and liaison with cooperatives; (d) Agricultural Services Depart-
ment would be responsible for smallholder extension, land use planning, farm
management advisory services, seed multiplication, and agricultural aspects of
irrigation and water development; and (e) Engineering Services Department
would be responsible for the construction of roads, civil works related to
irrigation development, supervision of building contracts, and operation of
project workshops.
8.05      The Bida Project Technical Coordination Committee (BPTCC) would
be established once the project is operational.  BPTCC would serve as a
local coordinating unit for BPMU. It would comprise representatives of the
LGCs and other government agencies operating in conjunction with the project.
Selected farmers and project technical staff would also be members. BPTCC
would play a particularly important role in siting of farm service centers
and roads and would establish guidelines for land allocation (when necessary),
and provide a forum to ensure minimum overlap of project and non-project
activities.
B. Staffing
8.06      Key staff for the project include the project manager, chief account-
ant, senior training officer, senior evaluation officer, chief technical



- 36 -
officer, land use planning officer, farm management advisor, senior agronomist,
senior irrigation engineer, two irrigation engineers, commercial services
manager, chief engineer and mechanical engineer. Trained personnel with the
relevant background and capability for implementing a development program of
the kind proposed are presently in short supply in Nigeria. The deficiency is
particularly pronounced at the senior and middle level of technical and
management staff. In the past, for ongoing projects, the Bank encouraged
State Governments to identify and recruit suitable Nigerians for key positions
but the response was generally disappointing. The project therefore provides
funds (up to US$5,000 per man-month) for international recruitment of the
above key staff, and an assurance was obtained at negotiations that persons
with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions of employment
acceptable to the Bank would be appointed to these posts. Further, the
appointment of the project manager and chief accountant would be a condition
of loan effectiveness; and the senior training officer would be appointed no
later than December 31, 1979.
8.07      The Bank's Agricultural Projects Management Unit for Western
Africa (APMU) has assisted State and Federal Governments in the selection
and recruitment of international staff for a number of projects. A request
has been received from NSG that APMU provide the same services for the present
project, and advertising and selection procedures are already under way.
C. Farm Credit Administration
8.08      Neither NACB nor existing local onlending entities (para 2.08) are
presently in a position to administer effectively a farm credit scheme in
the project area. Therefore, while project level entities such as coopera-
tives and farmer associations are being developed, and until NACB establishes
appropriate operating proceduures, BPMU would itself be responsible for
administering farm credit.
8.09      Credit administration would be the responsibility of the Commercial
Services Department. Participating smallholders and groups in need of medium
term credit would apply through the respective area development offices. The
area agricultural and commercial staff would determine an applicant's credit-
worthiness and right of occupancy to land, and the technical soundness of
development proposals. Smallholder loans below N 300 (or such amount deter-
mined by BPEC) would be approved at area level, while larger amounts would
require headquarters approval. Project credit would take two forms: (a)
seasonal credit for purchase of fertilizers, seeds, herbicides, farm tools and
tractor hire. Experience on other projects indicates that the demand for
short-term credit is not great due to the present high subsidies on farm
inputs. Nevertheless, some demand for short-term credit is expected and would
be met; and (b) medium-term credit for smallholder rice growers for purchase
of tools and hiring of labor to develop their individual irrigated fields. It
is expected that most farmers would require loans to develop at least 1 ha of
irrigated land, which in constant 1978 terms would mean a loan of N 110
(US$170). Project requirements for seasonal credit and medium term loans are
at Annex 2, table 7.



37
8.10      Terms of Lending.  During the three year period 1975-1977 the aver-
age Nigerian inflation rate was 26% per annum, and an average rate of 20%
per annum is expected to persist over the next three years. NACB does not,
typically, lend direct to farmers but rather, through intermediaries, and
NACB's lending rates of 5-7% are thus generally subject to an additional
mark-up of 1-1/2 - 2% to allow for onlending costs. Commercial banks are
under FMG instructions to lend to agriculture at 5%, but in view of the much
more favorable rates in other sectors are reluctant to comply. Under the
project, seasonal loans for farm inputs would be repayable at harvest, and
in any case within 12 months. Medium term development loans for irrigation
would be repayable within 3 years. Medium term loans would bear an annual
interest rate of 9-1/2%, or 2% above NACB's maximum current lending rate,
whichever is higher, and seasonal loans would carry a service charge of 10%,
or two and a half percent above the NACB rate. These formulae allow for auto-
matic adjustment in the event of any significant general upward adjustment of
the Nigerian interest rate structure. They are above the rates of NACB or
the commercial banks, and take account of the higher cost of lending to large
numbers of small farmers, and the additional risk in debt recovery.
8.11      The credit operations of the Commercial Services Department would be
designed to facilitate their eventual transfer to some more permanent credit
institution, be it NACB, Commercial Bank or some cooperative based entity.
The Department would accordingly be established on a self-accounting basis,
and would clearly identify, among others, three sub-accounts: a trading
account, a short-term and a medium-term credit account.
8.12      Credit needs of project area commercial farms would be serviced
by the commercial banks and/or NACB. Commercial banks are obliged to have a
portion of their total lending in agriculture and are therefore eager for
sound investment opportunities in the sector. The BPMU farm advisory service
would assist large farmers in the preparation of farm plans and other tech-
nical documentation required to obtain commercial loans, thereby facilitating
increased participation of commercial banks in credit operations.
D. Post-Project Management
8.13      In their structure, organization and operating procedures, the
present institutions providing farm support services have neither the flexi-
bility nor the resources required for the implementation of an intensive
agricultural development program, as here proposed. The management and
organization of the project has therefore been structured to circumvent some
of these constraints and ensure rapid implementation of the essential program
for increased farm production during and after the project. Neither the
development intensity nor the cost to Government is expected to continue at
the same level after the completion of the project, even if expanded to the
State as a whole. Moreover, many of the farm support services (e.g. produc-
tion and distribution of inputs, specialized equipment hire services, credit,
and marketing) need not be centralized in the public sector and could be
effectively provided by the private sector. Even technical advisory services



- 38 -
and complementary infrastructure (e.g., feeder roads construction and main-
tenance, maintenance of irrigation structure etc.), though likely to be major
public sector commitments in the foreseeable future, could be delegated to
decentralized agencies with greater local participation. One of the main
objectives of BPMU would therefore be to seek ways for service components of
the project eventually to pass either to Local Government Councils or to
cooperatives and private operators, as appropriate. Such services could be
financed through local taxation or on a direct cost basis.
8.14      This long term strategy is consistent with current Federal and State
Government thinking. Recent Local Government reforms have vested the LGCs
with wide powers in agricultural and rural development planning and adminis-
tration. The LGCs, equivalent to the county administration in the US and UK,
are close to the people and the traditional hierarchy, and if properly sup-
ported and strengthened could eventually take over some of the non-commercial
aspects of the project. It is important, therefore, that during the imple-
mentation of the project every effort is made at improving the operations of
the LGCs, and the project will provide training assistance (para 5.18) and
consultant services (para 5.20) to assist in this task. The project would
also provide consultant services to assist BPMU Monitoring Evaluation and
Planning Unit in planning for a post-project period that could include the
State as a whole. The proposed expansion of the Funtua Agricultural project
for a state-wide operation, now being prepared by Kaduna State with APMEPU
assistance, would also provide useful guidelines for similar post-project
development in Niger State. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that the Federal and State Governments, together with the Bank, would review
project progress and plans drawn up no later than 31 December, 1982 by the
Monitoring Evaluation and Planning Unit (in conjunction with the Planning Unit
of APMEPU) and would make recommendations for the future of the project.
IX. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Fimancial Implications for Farmers
9.01      Incremental farm incomes would depend on the crop combinations
individual farmers adopt; typical farm models were not prepared because
farm size, crop combination and land ownership patterns are diverse and the
relevant data base is poor. Direct benefits to farmers (returns per ha
and per manday) are evaluated from single crop budgets (summarized at Annex 5,
Table 1) and overall benefits are calculated on the basis of these budgets and
assumed adoption rates for various crops. Net returns (at financial farmgate
prices) per ha and per manday resulting from the proposed innovations are
summarized in Table 5 opposite (details in Annex 3, Table 3-11).



- 39 -
Table 5                                  Net Returns to Farmers
Without Project              With Project
Net Return  Net Return    Net Return   Net Return        Incremental
Crop               per ha    per manday        per ha     per manday   per ha  per manday
Irrigated Rice  -------------------------- Naira -------------------------------------
Informal Schemes 326.0       3.0           461.0           4.2        135.0      1.2
Formal Schemes   402.0        3.7          715.0           6.5        313.0      2.8
Valley Swamp        170.0       1.5           257.0           2.3        87.0      0.8
Sorghum             137.0       2.5           271.0           3.4       134.0      0.9
(250.0)         (4.6)     (113.0)   (2.1)
Maize               122.0       2.0           281.0           3.3       159.0      1.3
(259.0)         (5.2)     (137.0)   (3.2)
Groundnuts          149.0       1.7           268.0           2.2       119.0      0.5
(299.0)         (3.3)     (150.0)    1.6
Bambara              89.0       1.6           175.0           2.5        86.0      0.9
Cowpea               34.0       0.7           300.0           3.8       266.0      3.1
Cassava             233.0       2.6           706.0           5.4       473.0      2.8
Cotton               91.0       1.8           250.0           3.1       139.0      1.3
Yams                426.0       2.5           713.0           3.0       287.0      0.5
(701.0)         (3.5)     (275.0)   (1.9)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis indicate returns for farms using some
mechanization and herbicides.
9.02      On the basis of an anticipated overall increase in volume of produc-
tion of 28% due to project actions, and an expected participation of 75% of
project area farmers, average net family incomes in real terms (1978 constant
prices) are expected to rise from N 400 (US$615) to N 500 (US$770) by the
fifth year of the project. This can be considered satisfactory compared to
present production performance which at best is static. Incremental farm
incomes for participating families would depend on actual crop combinations
improved. Net income from an average 3.1 ha farm (about N 400) would be more
than doubled if the farmer improved all the crops in the rotation. Those
farmers taking advantage of the advanced service packages are likely to
increase their incomes by twice as much as those participating in the basic
services package only.



- 40 -
B. Cost Recovery and Financial Implications for Government
9.03      The project does not increase directly generated revenue to Govern-
ment as there are no taxes or cesses on farmers' produce. However, evidence
from ongoing projects suggests that considerable secondary economic activity
will develop around the project area with the development of commercial
servicing agencies and minor industries, together with a marked increase in
spending by beneficiaries on consumer goods and services from the private
sector. Revenues from indirect taxation will therefore increase substantially,
although precise quantification of this effect is not possible. Under present
Government policy farm inputs are highly subsidized; fertilizers are subsi-
dized at about 80%, while improved seeds are sold at a subsidy equivalent
to about 50%. Notwithstanding these constraints costs would be recovered
where practical.  Under the project, seedlings, unsubsidized chemicals, paddy
threshers, drying cribs and tools would be supplied to smallholders at prices
which would cover all handling costs. Likewise, participants would be charged
at cost for plant protection, maintenance on formal irrigation schemes and
tractor hire.  It was agreed at negotiations that participants in irrigation
schemes would make a contribution to the recovery of capital costs of develop-
ment. For formal schemes this annual charge would be N 15 per hectare for
the first three years of the project, rising to N 21 per hectare thereafer.
For informal schemes, the charge would be N 5 per hectare at first, rising
to N 10 after three years. Farmers on formal schemes would also pay full re-
current costs of maintenance, while informal scheme farmers would do their own
maintenance. These charges will permit the State, over a 30 year scheme life,
to recover in full the nominal capital cost of development (excluding over-
heads) for informal schemes and for formal scheme rehabilitations (though
not for the more expensive formal scheme expansions) but excLude recovery of
interest on capital. If interest at 9% were included, charges as a % of full
capital cost recovery would amount to 37% for informal schemes, 33% for formal
rehabilitations, and 9% for formal expansions. These charges represent a
marked advance towards cost recovery compared to present purely nominal charges
in other irrigation schemes. To adopt full cost recovery, particularly in the
case of the more costly formal expansions, would mean introducing heavy charges
on farmers, totally out of line with anything presently applied in Nigeria,
which would seriously deter farmers from participation in these schemes.
Farmer charges, in addition to their contribution to capital costs, will fully
cover recurrent costs of maintenance, and the element of subsidy for capital
costs is considered justified in one of the least affluent areas of rural
Nigeria. There will be no water charge on valley swamp farms beyond full
recovery of credit. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all
inputs and hire services provided by the project to participating farmers
would be charged at a sufficient level to recover their cost, except in those
instances where an official subsidy is applied.
9.04      NSG's cash flow (Annex 2, Table 12) is negative, which is typical
for such a project, and is in line with Nigerian policy of transfering oil
revenues to the agricultural sector. The annual deficit is at its highest in
the first year of the project, at N 4.8 million (US$7.4 million). It averages



- 41 -
N 3.0 million (US$4.6 million) over the five year development period. In
the period of repayment of the Bank loan it falls from a Year 7 peak of N 4.4
million (US$6.8 million) to settle finally at N 1.6 million (US$2.5 million)
once repayment is completed.
X. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Overall Project Benefits
10.01     It is estimated that about 75% of project area farm families
(60,000) would directly benefit from the project. Farm incomes would be
significantly increased (para. 9.02) and better standards of living and
nutrition can be expected. As Nigeria is a net importer of food the incre-
mental production would directly reduce imports; at border prices foreign
exchange savings from this could be at least US$12 million per year from Year
7 onwards, while foreign exchange earnings from the export of cotton could be
about US$2 million per year.
10.02     Through assistance to ASP participants and commercial farmers, the
project would demonstrate benefits obtainable from better management practices
and improved technology, thus encouraging development of commercial agricul-
ture in the area.
10.03     The local capability in the field of rural development would be
improved through institution-building and the training of technical and
managerial staff. This would facilitate planning and implementation of future
projects and set the stage for expanded statewide development. The project
would also demonstrate the scope for commercial development of support ser-
vices and for decentralizing public sector operations in agricultural develop-
ment. This could have a far-reaching and profound impact on agricultural
development policies and programs of the Government.
10.04     During the project development period, about 20,000 man years of
additional employment would be created. From year 5 onwards incremental
annual onfarm employment would be about 8,000 man years. Additional non-
farm employment in other sectors such as construction, trading, transporta-
tion, processing, etc. would also be generated by the project induced increase
in the level of economic activity in the area.
Economic Rate of Return
10.05     In calculating the economic rate of return, the following assump-
tions and methods were used: (a) Project Life: assumed to be 25 years
including a 5-year investment period during which development activities
would be substantially completed; (b) Project Costs: (i) all identifiable
taxes and duties on goods and services were excluded; (ii) price contin-
gencies were excluded but baseline physical contingencies costs have been
included; (iii) all farm inputs were costed at full landed price at Bida;



- 42 -
(iv) costs for monitoring and evaluation and consultants were excluded as their
benefits are non-quantifiable; (v) hired farm labor and male family labor were
costed at 80% and female family labor at 50% of market wage rates (N 2.40) to
reflect average opportunity cost, labor productivity and the seasonal nature
of employment in the project area; (vi) incremental recurrent costs for farm
support services were assumed to decrease by 10%/annum from year 6 until
year 10 after which they were assumed to be about 50% of year 5 costs. This
was based on the assumption that, during the post-project phase, improved
technology would be adequately diffused allowing reduced support from public
agencies; (vii) costs of road maintenance were not taken into account after
year 5 as they were assumed to be offset by non-project road user savings
not included in the analysis; and (viii) all foreign exchange costs were
adjusted by a shadow exchange rate of 0.8 times the official rate (shadow
exchange rate N 1.00:US$1.23).
(c) Project Benefits:
(i) project benefits primarily accrue from increased crop production,
which has been valued at economic farmgate prices derived from international
parity (adjusted using the shadow exchange rate) based on IBRD forecasts for
1985 in constant 1978 dollars, or from domestic retail prices, as appropriate;
(ii) no additional benefits from improved roads and rural infrastructure were
calculated; (iii) no residual value was attributed to assets at the end of
the project's economic life.
10.06     On the above basis, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the
overall project is estimated to be 16%. The ERR for the irrigation and water
control schemes is estimated to be 12%.
10.07     The Bank is currently reviewing the appropriate shadow exchange
rate and other relevant economic parameters for the economic analysis of
projects in Nigeria. If, for purposes of illustration, the project were
analysed with a shadow exchange rate of N 1.00:US$1.00 (rather than the
shadow rate of N 1.00:US$1.23 used above, or the official rate of N 1.00:
US$1.54) the economic rate of return would go from 16% to 25%. The use of
duties and quantitative restrictions (including outright prohibition) on
imports to protect the balance of payments has been increasing considerably
over the past year. If Nigeria's inflation continues substantially to ex-
ceed the rates prevailing among its trading partners one may expect either
some exchange rate adjustment, or still further increases in trade controls.
The latter option would imply an increasing gap between the shadow exchange
rate and the official rate, which would approximately offset the effects
of differential rates of inflation on the economic rate of return (as would
progressive exchange rate adjustment).
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
10.08     Shortage of professional staff at all levels, lack of timely and
adequate flow of state and federal funds, technical weaknesses and slower
than anticipated adoption of the proposed technology could in principle



- 43 -
represent risks to effective project implementation. The manpower constraints
would be overcome by employing experienced internationally recruited staff
while providing intensive training for local staff. This strategy has
proved successful in other Nigerian projects and is acceptable to the govern-
ment. Lack of proper funding by Government has emerged as one of the most
difficult problems for the ongoing projects and could hinder implementation of
this one. Assurances were obtained that should reduce this risk (see para
5.28). Technical risks for the project are considered minimal because the
proposed technology is simple, tested, easily understood and would not require
major changes in the cropping pattern and other institutional arrangements.
The agronomic recommendations are based on careful evaluation of experimental
results, field trials and experience on ongoing projects, and the yield
estimates are considered realistic. The project would provide sufficient
technical advice and supervision, and would provide adequate farm support
services. With these safeguards, experience on other projects has demon-
strated that farmer response to project measures should be as projected.
10.09     Sensitivity tests have been used to evaluate the potential impact on
the rate of return of various possible limiting factors, including an overall
delay of one year in project benefits (ERR 11%), increases in costs by 10%
(ERR 12%), increases in costs by 15% (ERR 9%), 10% decrease in benefits (ERR
11%) and project life reduced by 5 years (ERR 15%). If adoption rates are
80%, 70% and 60% of estimated targets, the ERR would be 12%, 10% and 7%,
respectively. These tests suggest that the project as designed could with-
stand the possible risks and still be economically viable.
XI.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
11.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) fertilizer procurement under ICB would be undertaken
according to a strict timetable agreed between FMG
and the Bank, who would jointly monitor progress, and
that the system of procurement by CFU would be reviewed
after two years (para 5.09);
(b) the State Government would make at least 200 ha of land
for seed multiplication available to the project no later
than 31 December, 1979 (para 5.10);
(c) the State Government would prepare and agree with the Bank
no later than 30 June, 1983 detailed plans for long-term
maintenance of project area roads (para 5.13);



- 44 -
(d) BPMU would be responsible for the preparation of detailed
terms of reference for consultants to be employed under
the project for review by the Bank; and that consultants
would be appointed with qualifications, experience and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.21);
(e) Bank disbursements would be made directly to BPMU's
commercial bank account (para 5.28 (c));
(f) BPMU would have authority to establish overdraft facilities
equivalent to six months working capital requirement as
estimated in the annual budget approved by the State, and
the overdraft would be guaranteed by NSG (para 5.28 (d));
(g) FMG and NSG would provide quarterly contributions to the
project at least 3 months in advance, in accordance with
the approved annual budget (para 5.28 (b));
(h) the management of BPMU would submit to FMAWR, State MNR
and the Bank the project's proposed annual budget, as
approved by BPEC, at least 4 months prior to each fiscal
year (para 5.28 (a));
(i) BPMU would receive in advance (September previous to the
purchase year) subventions from FMG and NSG to cover the
estimated cost of farm input subsidies (para 5.28 (e));
(j) in addition to its contribution to incremental costs,
NSG would continue to finance the present real 'Level of
government expenditures in the project area (para 5.28);
(k) BPMU's audited accounts and the auditor's report, including
a statement as to whether or not Bank funds had been used
for their intended purpose, would be submitted to the Bank
within four months of the end of the fiscal year (para 5.30);
(1) MNR would give high priority to BPMU staff recruitment and
as far as possible promptly accede to BPMU requests for
secondment of MNR technical and other staff to the project
(para 8.03 (a));
(m)  Niger State would transfer to the project responsibility
for all agricultural extension work in the project area,
no later than 1 April, 1980 (para 8.03(b));
(n) persons appointed to certain senior positions on the
project (list at para 8.06) would be recruited interna-
tionally, with qualifications and experience and on terms
and conditions of employment acceptable to the Bank (para
8.06);



- 45 -
(o)  the senior training officer would be appointed no later
than December 31, 1979 (para 8.06);
(p)  medium term loans would bear an interest rate of 9 1/2%,
or 2% above NACB's maximum current lending rate, and sea-
sonal loans a service charge of 10%, or 2 1/2% above the
NACB rate (para 8.10);
(q)  no later than 31 December, 1982, the Federal and State
Governments, together with the Bank, would review project
progress and plans drawn up by the Monitoring Evaluation
and Planning Unit (in conjunction with APMEPU) and would
make recommendations for the future of the project (para
8.14);
(r)  participants in project irrigation schemes would make con-
tributions to the recovery of capital costs of development
at agreed levels (details at para 9.03); and
(s)  all inputs and hire services provided by the project
to participating farmers would be charged at a sufficient
level to recover the full cost of those inputs and services,
except in those instances where an official subsidy is
applied (para 9.03).
11.02     Conditions of loan effectiveness would include:
(a)  opening of a separate bank account for BPMU with a
commercial bank with an initial deposit of N 1.0 mil-
lion (para 5.26);
(b)  signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between the
FMG and the Niger State Government (para 5.27);
(c)  gazette notification establishing BPMU and BPEC with
terms of reference and composition acceptable to the
Bank (para 8.01); and
(d)  appointment of the project manager and the chief account-
ant (para 8.06).
11.03     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
is suitable for a US$23.0 million loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.



-46 -
NIGERIA
ANNEX 1
NIGER STATE                                  Table 1
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Land Use in the Project Area
(a) Main Land Units
Area                  Area Cultivated
km2          %            km2         % of Unit
Land Form
Undulating Plain          13,000        76.5         1,750            13.5
Depositional Swamps          600         3.5            200           33.3
Upper Niger Terraces       1,000         5.8            130            1.3
Lower Niger Terraces       1,820        10.7             15            0.8
Hilly Upland                 600         3.5             -             -
Total                   17,020       100.0         2,095
(b) Farm Sizes and Distribution
Size Range (ha)       No. of Farms (M)         % of Area
Less than 1.0                13                   3
1.0 to 1.6                   20                   8
1.61 to 2.8                  23                  15
2.81 to 4.0                  20                  21
4.01 to 6.0                  11                  16
6.01 to 12.0                 10                  22
Over 12                       3                  14
Total                     100                 100
(c) Composition of Smallholder Farms (see para 4.23 for definition of terms)
System                                % of Farms      Av. Holding Size
1/3 bata (irrigable)                     75                  3.1 ha
2/3 lati (upland)
Wholly lati (upland)                     19                  3.1 ha
Wholly bata (irrigable)                   5                  1.0 ha
Commercial (undifferentiated)             1                 25.0 ha
Total                                 100
(d)  Area Production and per ha Yields of Major Crops
Crops                       Area         % of Area        Production        Yields/ha
('000 ha)                    ('000 m tons)         (m tons)
Sorghum                     67.0             32.5            40.2               0.60
Rice (paddy)                40.0             19.4            39.6               0.75 2/k
Millet                      21.7             10.5            10.8               0.50
Groundnuts (shelled)        14.0              6.8             7.0               0.50
Cowpea                      14.0              6.8            70.0               0.12
Yam                         14.0              6.8            70.0               5.00
Cassava                     14.0              6.8            56.0               4.00
Bambara                     12.0              5.8             4.8               0.40
Maize                        3.0              1.4             1.8               0.60
Cotton                       1.1              0.5             0.3               0.30
Other 1/                     4.9              2.3            N.A.               N.A.
Total                    205.7
1/ Okra, peppers, sweet potatoes, beniseed, etc.
_/  Average for 80% of the area higher on irrigated schemes.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
NIGERIA                                               Table 2
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop DeveloPment
('000 hectares)
Crop                                 Unit         Pre-Project          Year 1        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4         Year 5         Increment
Sorghum
Traditional            ha            67.00              66.70          65.40         64.00          61.10          58.50            8.50)
Improved               ha              -                 2.00           5.00          8.20          11.90         16.00            16.00
Subtotal        ha            67.00              68.70          70.40          72.20         73.00          74.50             7.50
Rice
Traditional
Formal schemes         ha             1.25               0.55            -              -             -              -           (  1.25)
Farmer schemes         ha             4.00               3.50           2.85          1.15            -              -           (  4.00)
Rainfed schemes        ha             4.75               4.75           4.75          4.75           4.50          4.00          (  0.75)
Valley runoff          ha            10.00               9.00           8.00          7.00           5.50          4.00          (  6.00)
Hydronorphic           ha            10.00               9.20           8.20          7.20           5.90          4.90          (  5.10)
Rainfed                ha            10.00              10.00           9.10          8.00           6.80          6.30          (  3.70)
Improved
Advanced schemes       ha              -                 0.70           1.40          2.00           2.10          2.10             2.10
Improved schemes       ha                                0.60           1.60          2.80           4.00          5.20             5.20
Uncontrolled schemes ha                -                 1.70          4.10           7.10          11.20         13.50            13.50
Subtotal       ha            40.00              40.00          40.00         40.00          40.00         40.00
Maize
Traditional            ha             3.00               3.10           3.30          3.40           3.40          3.40             0.40
Improved               ha              -                  --           0.50           1.50           3.20          5.0Co            5.00
Subtotai       ha              3.00               3.10          3.80          4.90           6.60           8.40            5.40
Groundnuts
Traditional            ha            14.00              14.30          13.70         12.40          12.20         11.80          (  2.20)
Advanced               ha               -                 -              -            0.20           0.30          0.50             0.50
Improved               ha              -                  -             1.00          2.50           3.00          3.50         _3.50
Subtotal       ha             14.00             14.30          14.70          15.10         15.50          15.80            1.B0
Bambara
Traditional            ha            12.00              11.00          11.40         10.90          10.20           9.40            2.60
Improved               ha              -                 0.20           0.70          1.30 _ __2.20                3.20             3.20
Subtotal       ha             12.00              11.20         12.10          12.20         12.40          12.60            0.60
Cowpeas
Traditional            ha             14.00             14.60          14.90          15.20         15.50          15.80            1.80
Advanced               ha               -                0.10           0.50          1.00           1.50          2.00             2.00
Subtotal       ha             14.00              14.70         15.40          16.20         17.00          17.80            3.80
Yam
Traditional            ha             14.0               13.70         13.50          13.20         12.70          11.90         (  2.10)
Improved               ha                                C.40          0.90           1.60           2.50          3.70             3.70
Subtotal       ha            14.0                14.10         14.40          14.80         15.20          15.60            1.60
Cassava
Traditional            ha             14.00              14.40         14.40          14.20         1i.00          14.00
Improved               ha               -                  -            0.30          0.60           1.10          1.60             1.60
Subtotal       ha             14.40              14.40         14.70          14.80         15.10          15.60             1.60
Cotton
Traditional            ha              1.10               1.10          1.10           1.10          1.00           1.00         (  0.10)
Advanced               ha               -                  -            0.50           1.00          2.00           3.00            3.00
Subtotal       ha              1.10               1.10          1.60           2.10          3.00           4.00            2.90
Others Crops
Miscellaneous Traditional  2/        ha              4.90               6.40           6.30          4.90           3.70          2.00          (  2.90)
Millet    i   Traditional            ha             21.70              22.00          22.70         24.10          25.30         26.40          _470
TOTAL All Crops 3/                     ha           205.70             210.80         216.10        221.50         227.00        232.70            27.00
1/ Farm inputs but no water control.
2/ Pure stand or intercropped. Crops include Okra, Sweet Potatoes, Kenaf,
Melon, Chillies, Sugarcane., Fruit, Vegetables and Tobacco.
3/ Assumes a 2.57, annual increase in line with population growth.



8ANNEX 
48     -                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIOA AGRICOLYLIRAL DEVELOFMNE FROJECT
Crop Prod-ntio
( QOetrle tons)
C-oP                                          Unit           Upit/ha .     re-Proleot         Year 1        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4        Year          f lar 6         Year 7        leCreeetal
googhue (Gra.i)
t-editio..1                              ..ton              0.6           40.2              40.0          39.2           38.4          36.7          35.1          35.             35.1          ( 5.1)
Impro-rd                                   tton            1.2              .                2.4           6.0           9.8           14.3          19.2          19.2           192              19.2
40.2              42.4          45.2           49.2          51.0          54.3           54.3           54.3            14.1
[p-d.cti.on without project 4/                              40.2              41.2          42.2           43.3          44.4           45.5          45.5           45.5              5.3
l.creneotal p-oj-et produbtio. It                              -                1.2           3.9           4.9            6.6           8.E           8.8            8.8              8.8
Pie (FPddy)
YpaAltcoon l Formal Orhe,es =             .to n             2.5            3.1               t.-                           -                           -              -                          (  3.1)
Farmer Schemes             s.to               1.6           14.0              13.2          12.2           9.4            7.2           6.4           6.4            6.4           ( 7.6)
other                      =.top             0.75          22.5               21.L          19.0          16.6           13.6          11.4          11.4           11.4           (  11.)
lep-orod:    Adoso-rd Sch-mes _/         o.tec             3.5              -                2.1           4.3           6.4            7.1           7.3           7.3            7.3              7.3
IepVr   d Schema  3/       ett               2.5             -1.1                            3.3           6.3            9.2          12.2          12.7           13.0             13.0
Pvootrpolled SchemeS 4/  ::toon              1.6              -                2 7           6.6          1t.4          17.9          21.6           21.6           21 6             21.6
39.6              41.8          45.6           50.1          55.0          58.9          59.4            59.7            20.1
Productton without proJect                                  39.6               40.6          41.6          42.6          43.7           44.0          44.9           44.8              5.2
O--ceernt1 project prod-ctior                                  -                1.2           4.0           7.5           11,3          14.1          14.6           14.9             14.9
Siae ((rain) 5/
T-adit r.a- l.tor                                          0.6             1.9               2.0            2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0            2.0            2.0             0.1
Improved                                 ntoe              1.5              -                 -            o.9           2.3           4.             7.5           7.5            7.5              7.5
1.9               2.0           2.8           4.3            6.8           9.5           9.5            9.5              9.6
Producction colthoot project                                  1.9               2.0           2.0           2.0           2.1            2.1           2.1            2.1             0.2
lecremebntal proloct predocti.r                                -                 -            O.R           2.3            4.7           7.4           7.4            7.4              7.4
Grouednuts (sbhllod)
Tr-ditcooal e1mt                                            0.5            7.0               7.,            6,9           6.1           5. 9          5.9            5.9            5.9 9           1.1)
Advanced                                 m.too              1.1             -                 -             -              0.2          0.4           0.6           0.6             0.6             0.6
leprered                                 n.ton             0.9                                              0,9          2.3            2.7           3.2           3.2      _     .2               3.2
7.0               7.2           7.8           8.7            8.9           9.7           9.7             9.7             2.7
Ppod-titot 0ith14t project                                   7.0                7.2           7.4           7.5            7.7           7.9           7.9             7.9             0.9
1--remocal project produtto                                    -                 -            0,4            1.2           1,2           1.8           1.8             1.8             1.8
BOabara Nute (shelled)
Wraditi-osl                              etoS               0.4            4.8               4.7           4.6            4.4           4.1           3.8            3.8            3.8          (  1.0)
lprov-d                                    tm              0.               -                0.2           0.6           1.0            1.8           2.6           2.6            2.6              2,6
4.8               4.9           5.2            5.4           5.9           6.4            6.4            6.4             1.6
frodootiot wieho-r project                                   4.8                4.9           5.0            5.2           5.3           5.4           5.4             5.4             0.6
Itto teet1l project prod.ctro.                                 -                 -            0,2            0.2           0.6           1.0           1.0             1.0             1.0
Co-poas (shelld)
Tradiioosl ..ton                                          0.12            1.7                1.8           1.7           1.7           1.7           1.7            1.7            1.7
Ad--noed                                 =.or               1.0 d                            -            00.2           0.5            1.0           1.6            1.6            1,6             1.6
1.7               1.8           1.9           2.2            2.7           3.3           3.3             3.3             1.6
Prod.ctie-  iittout project                                   1.2               1.7           1.8           1.8            1                           1.9             1.9            0_2
I -crteetal p-oJect pr-dortlee                                 -                0.1           0.1            0.4           0.8           1.4            1.4            1.4             1.4
Ys.. (tlbsh)
Treditit..l                               .toc              5.0           70.0              68.5          67.5           66.0          63.5          59.5           59.5           59.5          ( 10.5)
I_pro-rd                                 m.It              9.0              -                3.6           8.1          14.4           22.5          33.3          33.3           33.3             33.3
70.0              72.1          75.6           80.4          86.0          9218          92.9           92.8             22.8
Productioo clrhese project                                   70.0              71.9          73.5          75.4           77.3          79.2          79.2            79.2             9.2
I-c-ental proj-ct prod-ction                                   *                0.3           2.1            5.0           8.3          13.6          13.6           13.6             13.6
Cassava (tobee)
Traditt-l                               o.ter              4.0           56.0               57.6          57.6          56.8          56.0          56.0           56.0           56.0               -
I-prov-d                                 e.toe            12.0              -                 -            3.6            7,2          13.2          19.2          19.2            19.2            19.2
56.0              57.6          6t.2          64.8           70.0          75.2          75.2           75.2             19.2
Froduction rithO-t project                                   36.0              57.6          58.8          60.3           61.8         63.4          63.4            63.4              7.4
I1cre-etal project prodctlon                                  -                 -            2.4           4.5            8.2          11.8          11.8            11.8            11.8
cott   (eed)
Trediti-l                                mm.t0 0.5                         0.3                0.3           0.3           0.  0.0                                                                     -
Adva.ced                                 m.trr              0.9             -                              0.5           0,9           1.B            2.7           2.7            2,7              2.7
0.3               0.3           0.8            1.2           2.1           3.0           3.0            3.0              2.7
P-od-lt-o tithout prcJec,                                     0.3               0.3           0.3            0.3           0.3           0.2          0.3             0.3              -
I--remert.l pro-jct pr2duction                                 .-                -            0.5            0.9           1.8           2.7           2.7             2.7             2.7
Mit-nellaneso  cpore and  illet 6/                                                                               -
17 Project prod-ction i-rre.sed annually by 2.5%.                                                    . t. 5 pressed as grain, bt ta-ditlor-lly -rops harve-ted oree  R- reoctbhlen.
27 I1credmntal prodi- ctln  doe solely to pro-jetct Ire.  tttctdoo  /bove.                             2,/ No yield eatitates.
3/ Yields increace after cornetructioe at fotlolovin pate.:
Ye-r oif tostru-tite:         85% of poteti1al
O- yra        _ a     -ter cocstroction, 902 of potentila
The years eftec c-estrctloe-  100i. of porentite.
4/ Rice grorateg  -eeaa rereivilg Improved seeds d    d fertilier,
bot vith no water co.t-ol nees.



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRONOM1C RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FIELD CROPS
Seed                               Fertilizer                Insecticides             Herbicides                 Fungicides                        Farm Power
crop                                  Variety          Kg/Ha 1/       Dressing        Type          Kg/Ha        Type    Rate/H. 3/   Type           Rate/Ha        T                   /a       Msnday/Hs         Mech.
Paddy: Serviced                      FARO 18             40        Agrosan 5W         CAN             50          none        -             -             -           -                -            15               x
20-20-0           50
Improved                     FARO 18/23          40                           CAN            100                     -          Butylate       3.2 kg         -                -            145              yes
20-20-10         100
Advanced                     FARO 15/23          40                           CAN            200    (temaline 20 1.2 lit            "          3.2 kg   Blasticidin          3.8 kg          -
20-20-20         150                                                                                            115              yes
Traditional                   Local              25              x             -              -           -           -             _-                                         -            110               x
Sorghum:
Improved                    FARA FARA            12           Aldrex T        CAN            100          -           -
20-20-0           50          -          -             -             -                                           80              x
Advanced                    FARA FARA            12           Aldrea T        CAN            100          -           -        Atrazine 80   0.8 kg           -                -             55              yes
or  F 241                                      20-20-0            50                             -           -                      -                           -
Traditional                 Local                 7              -             -              -           -           -             -             -            -               -             55              x
Millet:
Improved                    Local                 9              -          20-20-0          100          -           -             -             -           -                -             60              x
Traditional                 Local                 5                                               -              -            -           -                     -                            45              x
Maize:
Improved                    NCAfNCB              30           Aldrex T        CAN            100      Lindane      2.5 kg/    Atrazine 80  0.8 kg              -               _             85              x
20-20-10          50
Advanced                    NCA/NCB              20           Aldrex T        CAN            100      Lindane      2.5 kg/    Atrazine 80  0.8 kg              -               -             50               yes
20-20-10          50          -          -             -             -            -                -             -
Traditional                 Local                12                            -               -                                                                                             60               x
Groundnuts:
Improved                    M25/68 or            45           Fernasor. 1D    SSP            150          -           -             -             _     -                      -            120               x
69/101
Advanced                                         45              DO          0-20-10         200          -           -         Trif 48%       0.4 kg   Thiram or            3.8 kg          90               yes
Blasticidin        3.8 kg
Traditional                 Local                30               -            -               -                                                  -                            -              90              x      >
Bambara:
Improved                    Local                50          Fernason D       SSP            150          -           -             -             -            -               -             70               x
Traditonal                  Local                25               -            -               -          -           -             -             -            -               -              55              x
Cowpea:
Advanced                3/14, 1/80 or 76/60    25                -            SSP             50  Endosulf ULV  1.5 lit.            -             -            -                -             80              x
Traditional                 Local                10               -            -               -          -           -             -             -            -                -             50              x
Yams:
Improved                    Local             3,000              -          20-10-10         100    Aldrin 2.5  1.5 kg              -             -            -               -            240               x
Advanced                    Local             3,000              -          20-10-10          100    Aldrin 2.5  1.5 kg    Linuron 50%    1.6 kg               -                -            300              x
Traditional                 Local             1,500               -           -_-                         -                  -                    -            -                -            170              x
Cassava:
Improved                    IITA             10,000              -          20-20-20         100                                                  -            -                -            130              x
Traditional                  Local            6,500               _-                               -             -                                -            -                -             90              x
Cotton:
improved                    IAR                  20              -              2/           100  En8nso1flU1LVL,I.5 lit            -             -            -                -                             x
Advanced                     IAR                 20               -              2/           100  Endosulf ULV  1.5 lit    Diuron              0.4 kg         -                -             75              yes
Traditional                  IAR                 20               -             -              -           -          -             -             -            -                -             50               x
1/ For Cassava number of stem cuttings per ha.
2/ Boronated Superphosphate.
3/ For Maie rate is per ton of cobs; used as storage protection;
For Yams, rate per 3,000 kg of setts dusted prior to planting.                                                                                                                                                        -



NIGERIA61014
NICER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTUIRAL REVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fare Inert Rosuire-t:sE      Q-O netitis and Value
Quantoty                                                                               Value _1
Year 1          Veer 2          Yea.-           Ya              Year 5        ToesE         Yea  0       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Year S        Totall
Seeds 1)
Sorghum                                          24              36              60              84             108           301             8            12          20            2?            35           102
R-ce                                            120             160             320             360             520         1,480            42            56         112           126           102           518
Raise                                            -               10              20              44              56           130            -              3           6            13            17            39
Crosedvue                           ~       ~       ~~~~~~~- 45      78              72             110           305            -             20          35            32            55           137
Cespea                              ~       ~       ~~~~~~                         ~      ~~3 10  16  23  00       71             2             4           0            80             8            31
Cassav  21-                                                   3,000           3,000           8,000           8,000        22,'000          ..3                                        R                         22
152)        (46)         183)          (33)            8 4)
F-rtili-e
CAN                                             485           1,195           2,005           2,890           3,715        10,290            85           200         351           506           650         1,801
SoP                                              35             280             620             805           1:,105        2,895             6            47         105           140           187           489
Compound                                        390             970           1, 680          2,450           3,10          8,680            83           208         360           524           683         0,818
Bo  ere   SFso5                                                                 000             200             380           650                           I 0        21           4j2            62           13 5
(174)        (3001        (363)         (379)         (366)
Iuse-tlriden 37
Ca-elie 20                                      840          1,880           2,400            2,520           2,520        9,060              2             3            5            5             5            20
Fedosuiphar                                    130           8,500           3,000           5,250           7,500        11,400              1             3           7            12            17            40
AlOIne 2.5 lkg)                                600           1,40            2,400           3,800            5,600       13,800              1             2           4             16            7            20
Lind-ne (kg)                                     -           2,'000          6,080          12,800          09,000        45,000             -              3          8             16            2552
1  4)       16)          113)          115)           15E)
Herbi,ides                                                                      'coo--- -- - -- --   k0  g   A.0.-- - -- - - -- -- - - --
Eutylat-4                                       22             6.0             89.              9.7             6.7           34.3            6            14          21            23            24            90
Alla.n                                           -0.4                           1.2             2.6             4.3            8.2           -3                        10            21            32            66
Trllualn484. 5/                                  --                             0.1             0.1             0.2            0.4           --3                                      3             61
Li-u0c  SOY 6)                                 0.3             0.7              1.3             2.0             3.0            7.3            2             3           7            00            15            3
Wturo                                           -0.2                            0.4             0.8             1.2            2.6           -2                         4             8            12            26
18)           1 4)       123)         123)             2 6)
---------------000K E----------------
Bl-aslldin                                      3.0            7.0             11.6            15.0            20.0           56.6            7            02          28            36            48           136.0
Agrtos   380.1                                                  0.2             0.4             0.8             0.8            2.1          ).C,2           3.3          0.5          0.8           003.0
Aldee, T                                         .103                            .              0.9             1.3            32           1.0.7           3.4         0.            1.2           17            4.0
Fervaso   D                                    0.6             0.5              1.0             1.5             2.0            3.6           -I.                        1.            1.5     ~     1-~ 7.0.0I
(7.4)       (00.9)       (12.0)          9 .3)       (13.2)
MaIze Sltore(NOSS 7/                                 0             050             300             600             900         2,000        -    8.0          23.0        45.0          90.0         135,0       _301.0
18)        )15(           22)         (45)          (45)
Hard Tone COON .0t18/                 ~~~60            90             150             210             250           760           12C.0        180.0        300.0         420 0__ _500,0___1320,0
(120)        (60)         (120)         (120)         180)
I/  Banbara seeds .ud yam sores homegre-wn;   co .u ande suppledby Cotte
Development Boad fro  of c,hsrga.  ProJ-c suPpplIe  seds forthoce
cro psare improvd seeds and supplied every third year.
2/  C. _sv    cttings in '000 number.-    Procurd Ora IOTA and sopplied
evey third yea.,
3/ Iv-lodos field cud stuage lv... -Icide-    Ga-nliu  used at fieldi.. lu         tirucids
freadosecd rice, E.d...lphan on c-npoa  and  -tuuo  (U1LV(, Liudane dusted
no Male  cobs for-    ua  protection aud Alddlne dustd on pu sstts prior
so plavting.
4/  A.s..e. seed  u all adn-s-d rice al 25% of improvedrie
5/H  advancd g-sod-or onty.
6/  o  50% of yam he only.
7)  Each store (10 m3) wold hald about 5 tons.  Coet 8130,
8/  C-tla.s... hues, apado, etc 18 pi-ee  per family.  Replaced evey fouth
9)  Values in pa-th ...is ahss  annual  -nsna    ot to p-sj-ct.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASING OF ROAD CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE
Year  -----   --------Construction------------------------Maintenance
--    kkm----                  Periodic       Routine
1                             100                          -            30 + 70  1/
2.                            180                         20          210 t 50
3                             180                         30          410 + 20
4                             100                        200          550
5                              60                        250           600
Following Years                       -                       (320)         (660)
620                       500         1,800+ 140= 1,940
1/ Routine maintenance and repair/reconstruction of structures on
Federal and State roads.



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
RIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMINT PROJECT
FRODUCTIOh RATES AFPI FfLAPT POSOlOtHePPS. FOR GONPTRICioNN VINITS
Road Lep-th Eke)                     Quatitie  per ke                                                                                         Plat - H
Type 1  U/       Type 2  2/           Type I            Type 2           Unit    Total QuaEtity    OUtDpt Rate.             Doze           Grader        Rolrr        lpheel Leader        TinDDr
Road t-n-trucliop
Total LNegth                                          590               30                                                    k -  he        _                 _                 -              _               _              -                _
C eap rs -D
Open CO.n.ry or  -tpttttod Nolh                       565               15                  '.Z               0.6             ha            700                 0.2 he/h      3,500             -               o              -                _
Fore.t,                                                25               15                  1.2               0.6             he             40                 0.12 ha/h       340
Topsoili.p                                             60               10              1,500             1,000               m3       100,000                  50   e3/h    2,000
E.rth-orka
,'ape on SIte                                         550               20                640               250               c3       357,000                  50   e3/h    7,140                                             -
lo--.et  and Ped l                                     40               10              3,000             1,600               p3       168,000              30 f 60 e3/h    2,800               -               -           5,600             16,800
Shape end Crmpact (ubgRadel                           590               30              5,500             5500                aD     3,410,000               1,500   p2/h         -           2,280         2,280              -
S-rf-clim
Eoc..atpon and HaNUaRe                                590               30                800               000               m3        49,600               30 - 60 N3/h    8,267                              -          Ib,533             49,b0O
P01-060  aod Shaping                                  590               30              5,200             5, 200              m2       322,400               1,500   p2/h         -           2,149                                             -
Conpe-tlop                                            590                30             5,200             5,200               m2    3,224,000                  m00   p2/h                                    3,800
nrsttns
Roedeide Dra-s                                        590               30                  1.6               1.6            k              092-
Offahoot Dra-ni                                       590               30                  0.5               0.0            km             310                 30   ,/dn-
Culver. and -rid.rs
0 60 op                                               590               30                  2                 2              P.           1,240                  3  pR/daT        _             _               _              _
0 90 ce                                               590               30                  0.5               0.5            P,             310                  2  p0/day       -              _               _                               -
rldg  -or  3 to 5  sp-e                               -                -                                                    m-  2          300
L.sd Acui.ltlo                                          590                30                  1.2               0.6            h.             726
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                      24,Q4Y          4,429          6,080          22,133             66,400
Ln
R-nd MaiLo.ano.   Perlodi  Mao.t.oance                                                                                                                                                                                                                               jc
Sonracing                                            0It                20                520               520               e.3        67,600              15 - 30 e3tNa7  4,506              -               -           2,253             11,266
ShopIog                                               450                20             5.200             5,200                m2    2,44410W                1,500   m2/h         -           1,630             -               -                -
No,,patllon                                           450                20             5,200             5,200                 2    2,444,O000                050   p2/hp        -             -            2,880              -                -
Sobtotel                                                                                                                                                       4,506           1,630          2,880          2,253             11,266
Rootloc Nelntpoaonc
IradloR                                            4,500               200              5,200             5,200                p2   24,440,000              4,000   m2/h          -           6,110
Drain ClIenioR                                      1,500                60                  1.6              1.6             rhe        -2,500                  3  kmh           -             840
Sobtotal                                                                                                                                                                       6,950             -               -               _
lIoto.e.eet of FPd.ral       aStat reed.
R.con,tnnctjyn 0f CuL1-1t, Repair of
nidOg.  and Routine MaIntepanP upto 1980 only)
Total 1Ingth                                          138 (vieth for otroctore, 10.50 m)
C-lvert- end Bridng-
0 60 cm                                              130                  ,.2              0.2               -                 pc            28                  1 p /day
0 90  e                                              130                  -                0 1               -                 pc            14                  1 pt/day
Bldgo Uork 3-5 n span                                 -                   -                  -               -                 m2           150
Routine Maintentancp
Oreding lorfoe   a shepingl                          300                  -            5,70'                                   m2    1,560,000               4,000 m7/h           -             390
DaIn CGleanIng                                       450                  -                 1.6                                k km          720                  3 km/h          _             240
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                                        630
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                             28,553         13,009          8,960          24,386             77,666
Total pen y-er (4 4 year-  Iota1/                                                                                                                                               6,345          2,891           1,991          5,419             17,259
Nuhber of USir                                                                                                                                                                                   3               2              4                   Gs
A-n-age Ootpot per ano-  (hour-)                                                                                                                                                1,269            963             995          1,354               1,150
I/  Construrtlon C- o- -of  -      or-dtp--ding t ypo-p-d  -n-dnd.                                                                                                                                                                                                   in
R--Contr-clion of to C road, st -ordiog no  prop-oe  d -n-ddo r.



- 533
ANNEX 2
TABLE 1
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
PIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(IN THOUSANDS OF NAIRA).
YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR 5           TOTAL  LOCAL      LOCAL   F.E.        F.E.
TOTAL    TOTAL    TOTAL    TOTAL    TOTAL           COSTS   (1)       COSTS    (2)        COSTS
!' iTtMLNT CUiZTS
BIJILDINGO  AND HOUSES         2,028.9  2,423.6  1,072.1    323.5           -       5,848.1   61.0   3,565.9    39.0   2,282.3
YLltCLES AND EQUIPMENT        2,252.9    905.7    109.3    451.9    372.2          4,092.0   22.5      921.9    77.5   3,171.0
IREJfOATTON DEVELOPMENT COSTS    525.8    598.0  1,070.4    518.0    168.0          2,880.2   75.0   2,160.2    25.0        720.0
SUB TOTAL                         4,807.6  3,927.3  2,251.8  1,293.4    540.2        12,820.3   51,9   6,648.0    48.2   6,173.3
RECURRENT COSTS
SlAFF SALARIES                  1,338.2  1,656.4  1,812.7  1,812.9  1,731.3         8,351.5   73.8   6,160.0    26.2   2,191.5
OPERATINGOCOSTS                   449.2    744.0    780.4    732.6    685.3         3,391.5   59.0   2,000.8    41.2   1,398.3
INCREMENTAL FARM INPUTS           373.0    452.0    638.0    621.0    629.0         2,713.0   25,0      678.2    75.0   2,034.8
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               25.0     75.0      75.0     75.0         -         250.0       -          -   100.0      250.0
MEDIUM TERM CASH LOANS            149.0    211.0    239.0       88.0     56.0         743.0  100.0      743.0        -          -
SUB TOTAL                       .2,334.4  3,138.4  3,545.1  3,329.5  3,101.6         15,449.0   62.0   9,582.0    38.0   5,874.6
[ASELINE COSTS                    7,142,0  7,065.7  5,796.9  4,622.9  3,641.8        28,269.3   57.4  16,230.0    42.6  12,047.9
-HYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              420.0    430.3    408.3    287.9    195.5         1,742.0   62.5   1,088.0    37.5        654.0
IRICE CONTINGENCIES                 922.9  2,087.4  2,807.4  2,980.4  3,027.7        11,825.8   81.1   9,585.7    18.9   2,240.1
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES               1,342.9  2,517.7  3,215.7  3,268.3  3,223.2        13,567.8   78.7  10,673.7    21.3   2,894.1
TOTAL PROJECI COSTS              8,484.9  9,583.4  9,012.6  7,891.2  6,865.0         41,837.1   64.3  26,903.7    35.7  14,942.0






- A                    
.   ....... .22223 .                                                                               -. ..           -  .
2-W  31        l       i  H            1                                                           T                                  1           3 ,



NI GERIA                                                          TRABLE3
NIGER STATE
NIDA AGRICULTURAL DEOCLOPMElAT PROJECT
NUIL OONIS AND R4OUSES IN)
(IN THOUSANDS OF NAIRA)
QYEAR I          UYEAR 2            YEAR 3           YEAR4           YEAR 
UNIT      QART    TOTAL  OANT    TOTAL  OUANT    TOTAL  IUAlY  TOTAL  OUANT  TOTAL                  TOTAL  LOCAL    LOCAL   F.E.        F.E.
EROT                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~COSTS   III  COSTS    Ill  COSTS
PROJECT MNRRO OFFICE
SENTOR                                    $0.11         2.0    100.0    1.0       10.0 .                                                        150,0   60,0      90.0    40,0       60.0
INTERNEDIATE                               40.00        4,0    160,0    2.0       00.O    2.0      00.5o                                        320.0  600.0    192.0    40.0    028.0
JUNIOR                                   525.00                     -    2.0      50.0    1.T       25.0              -7,                                 00      4,        00       3.
HACACUARTERB IGOILDINS                   522,00         0.4    200,9    0.6    313.4                   -                                         7 -22.    60.0    313.3    00.0    209.0
TOTAL - PROJECT MOR'S OFFICE                                      460.9            493.4             105.0              --                      1.067,3   60.T    640,3    40.0    427,0
AGRIERULTRRAL SEGVICES DEPT.
SENIOR                                     50,0          -.     50.0                  .                                                           00 6.           3.        00       2.
INTERMEDIATE                               00.00        1.0     40.0    0.0       00.0                 -              -                         10.0   60.0       72,0    40.0       40,0
JUNIOR                                    25,00                     -    3.150---                                                                25.0   60.0      45.0    40,0       30.0
AREA IIEVELOPMENT CENTERS                  750                    .0     75.0 2.  5,       10       7.                               -         30.0   60,0    1500.        40,0    120,0
FORM SERVICES CENTERS                     40,00         6.0    000.0    6.0    240,0    6.0    24.3.0200020.0   60,0    550.0    -00    368.0
SUP TOTAL                                                         405.0            545,0             115.0          200,0                       1,465,0   60.0    079.0    40,0    506,0
SMALLN0OLDER EXTENSION UNIT
SENIOR                                   5s.00                      -    0.0      50,0                 -                      -                 50.0   60.0       30.0    40,0        0.
JUNIOR                                    25,00                     -    00       25.0                 -                                                                             2  50 6.  50 4,  0.0
000 TOTAL                                                             -              50                                                 -          7.0   60,0       45,T    40.0       30,0
LAND URE PLANNING UNIT75070 600                                                                                                                                   40       400       30
SENIOR                                    50.00        2.0      00.                                                   -                         0.       00       6.        00       4,
JUNIOR                                    25,00         2,0      50.0    3.0      75,0                 -                              -        125,0   60.:0      75,0    40.0      30.0
SON TOTAL                                                         050.0             75,0-                                                        225,0   60.0    135,0    40.0         950
FARN NANAGENENT UAST
SENIOR                                     50,00        1.0     50.0    1,0       50.0                 ---                                     100.0   60,0       60,0    40.0      40.0
JONOR                                     25.000                   -    2.0      50.0    T,0       25,0-                                        75,0   60,0      45,0    40.0       30.0
SU. TOTAL                                                         50,0             1OT.0              25.0              --                       175.0   6T,0    105,0    40,0        70,0
ICE'D NULTIPLICATOIN I EARN TRIALS
SENIOR                                    50,00         1.0     50.0                 -                 -                              -         50,0   60.0       30.0    40.0      20.0
F05N TRIALS SECTIOIN
INTERMEDIATE                             40,00         1.0      0,--                                                                           4.0 U0           240-40.0           1,
SOPS RULTIPLOCATION SECTION
SENIOR                                   50.00        1,0      50.0                                                                 -          5,       00      3.        O0       2,
rNTE MEDIATE                             40,00        1,0      40.0                                                                            40,0   60.0      24,0    40.0       1600
JUINIOR                                  25,00                     -    1,0      25.0                 -                                         0220   60,0     15,0    40,0       10,0
SUN TOTAL                                                         180.0             25.0                                                         205.0  -60T    023.0    40,0         02.0
IRRIGATION SERVICES UNIT
SENIOR                                    50.00         1,0     50.0    2.0    500.0                   ---                                     150.0   60.0      90.0     40,0      60,0
JUNIOR                                    25.RO         1.0     25.0    2.0       50.0                                                         7    5,0   60.0   45.0    40,0       30.0
030 TOTAL                                                          75,0            050.0                 -                      -                225.0   -0,0    135,0    40.0        90.0
TOTAL - AGNICULTURAL SERVICES DEFT.                              060.0             070.0             340.0          200,0              2-          7.     001420            4.        4.
CURNERCIAL SERVICES DEPARTM0NT
S"ENIOR                                    00.00        0.0      50,0                -                 -              -               -         0.0   60.0       30.0    40.0      20,0
SOLOS CR0000 UNIT
SLGTO50.00                                             1,0     50,0                 --                                                        50,0   60,0      30.0    40.0       20.0
INTERMEDIATE                             40.00                    -    U.        00                                                           00   60,0        20.0    40,0      0.
JNIOR                                   25.00        4.0    100,0    4,0    100,T0    2.0         O                                         200 6.           152.0    40,0    oo
TRNCTOO OSRE UNOT
INTERMEDIATE                             40,00        0.0      40.0                                  -               --                       40,T   60.2      24,0 4.0  1O 6.0
JUNIOR                                   25.00         0.0     25.0    2,0       50.0                                                         7 -    210   600T  45.0    40.0     30.0
CROP PROTEOOION SNOT
JUNIOR                                   25,00         1.0     21,0    2.0       10,0                 ---                                     75,0   60.T       45,T 4.0 -        2 0.0
TOTAL - CORNERCIAL SERVICES DEPT.                                 290.0            240,0              50.0                             -        5800T   60,0    3440,      40.0     -6,--
ENGINEERING DEPARTNENT
SEinIO                                     50.00        2.0    100,0    2,0    100.0    2.T    1000.0                                         300.0   600   0010.0   400,0    020.0
JUNIOR                                    25.00         3.0     75,0    4.0    100,0    2.0        50,                               -        225.0  6UOT      03,       40.0      90,0
TOTAL - ENGINEERING DEPNRTRENT                                    07-,             20.0.            150.0-                                      520.0   6T,0    310,0    40.        200.0
TRAINING DEPARTRENT
SENOR                                     50.00         1.5     50,0                 ---                                                       50.0   60,0      30.0    40.0       2 0,
JONIO                                     25.00                     -    1.0      25.0    2,0      50.0                                         S0 6,           45.0    400        30.0
TRAMINDN CENTER -OFFICE                   35.00--                                           ,      3S.0                                        35,     00       2.        00       1,
TRAINING CENTER   D ORNITORT              70.00                     --                      0.0    20.00              .                        7.    60,0       42.0    40.0       2.
TOTAL - TRAINING 0EPRARTNENT                                       50.0             2S,0            155,0                              -        230.0  600,0    130.0    40,0        92.0
RONITDORNA I EVALUATION
MNONT. I COAL. UNIT
SENIO                                     50.00         1.0     50.0      .       50,                  -t-oo000   60.0                                          60.0    40.0       40.0
INTERNEOOATE                              40.00                     -    0.0D    40,.0                -                                        - - 400   60.0   24.0    40,0       09.0
JUN1911.                                  25,00OD                        5,0    125.0    5,0    125,0--                                       25.      6T0     1.0       4,       000
GCHISTISOMIASIS UNIT
SONIOR                                    50.00                          1.0      50.0                -               --                       50.0   60.0       30,0    40.0      20.0
JUNI OR                                   25.00                     -    00       20.0                ---                                      25,0   60.0       15.0    40.0      00.0
TOTAL - MONITORING 1 EVALUATION                                    50.0            290.0            125,0               -              -        465.0   60.0    279.0    40,0    106,0
ROAD INPROVEMENT  NA)115.0                                                         205.2            147.0            83.5             5. 70.0   70.0    309.6    30,0    171.3
60090 TOTAL                                                    2.028,0           2.423,0          1.072,1           283,5              -      5,GOO,1   61,0  3.5140,       39,0  2.266,2
OF AAICAI
LOCAL SCOSTS                                                0,230,B           G,474,6            650.0          078.5               -      A 541,9       -         -
FORNEIN ECHCANGE EOSTS                                        790.1             940.0            414.1          1 05.1              -      2,206.3       -                  -
(REN$0910 STREP NOUNINA PROVIDED FOR OR. 10 AND 000V0.
INOERNEDOATE NSOISINU FOR ORN. 8 TO IS AND JUNIOR FOR
BR. 6 TO 
(M)DTAILS ARE GRIWNS IN C-4, REPENDIX 6 OF PROJECT FILE.
1*8   ATERIALS AND LAND ACGUISITION, APPROXINATE ANNUAL
BREAKDOWN OP TOTAL



^ 56 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Irrigation Development Costs 1/
N '000
Rate   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3 Year 4  Year 5    Total
Rehabilitation/Formal Schemes:
Badeggi                        645    193.5    200.0        -       -        -       393.5
Edoehigi                       645    193.5    258.0    177.4        -       -       628.9
Loguma                         645     54.8        -        -                         54.8
441.8    458.0    177.4       -         -   1,077.2
Expansion - Formal Scheme:
Badeggi                      2,500      -          -      725.0      -       -       725.0
Edozhigi                     2,500      -          -        -     250.0      -       250.0
Loguma                       2,500      -          -        -     100.0      -       100.0
-         -      725.0   350.0      -    1,075.0
Improvement - Informal Schemes:   280        84.0    140.0    168.0   168.0   168.0    728.0
TOTAL                          525.8    598.0  1,070.4   518.0   168.0  2,880.2
1/ Field construction costs do not include engineering overheads.






6                                                                                  886666~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 66..6..6..6.. ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6
-     - - - - -   -  - - - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
6 6   .6  6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6                                                                                                                                                                                                            6               6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6                                                                                                       -                      6     6      6     6      6     6     6      6     6      66666                               6
66  6666666666666                                                               666666666                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                            6                                                 6                                                                                                                                   6
6  6 6    6  6  6  6  6    6  6 6 6 6 6 6 6    6             6            6                                  6            6            6            6            6           6            6            6            6            6           6            6            6            6            6            6                                    6                                                6    6 6                                     6    6                 6          6                              6
666666  66-66  6666666                                  -66666666                                                            6666666                                               6               666666                                 6666666                                                6666666666                                                                         6              6666.66..                                     66. .  .6.6.                                          6666666.   6
6 6 6 6            6             6      6             6             6      6             66.6                                             6      6             6 .6                                                   6    6                                      6     6.6                            .6                                6   666.6                                                      6    6                                                            66.6  6.66                              6
6 6 6 6 6 6 6   6     6  6   6 6 6 6 6 .   6   6   6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6      6      6     6      6      6     6      6      6            6      6      6      6     6      6      6     6      6             6     6      6                  6     6    6   6         6   6    6   6         6      6       6       6              6       6      6       6       6      6       6      6       6       66                     6      6       6666666666                                                       6
66666666666  66666                                                6    66                                                        666                                           6                                    66666                                                                             66666666                                                                                                 666                                               666666   8666666666666666666666                  6
6    6  6 6 6 6  6 66    6    6  6    66    6    6   6 6    6  66    6  6  66  6 6 6 6 6    6   6                 6              6        6    6    6   6               6     6 6 6 6             6   6                             6 6 6 6 6                6    6        6                                       6             6   6          6      66                      66                  6     66         6    6     6     6     6     66                                    6    6    66              6
6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
66,66 666  666666666                                                                                                                   666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666666-66
6                         666                                                                                                                                                                                               6                                                                                                 6    6                                                                                                             66                                6                              6
666666  6   66666666666666666666666666666666666666666666                                                                                                                                                                            666666666  6  6   6   666666    66   6666666666  6   66666666666=66666666666666666666666666 66 66666666666666
6  66 66 66   666666        666666                                                          6666666666666666666666 6 66 6 666 6   666666666  666  6666666666                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6
6  6-6 6   6 6 6 6 6        6                                           6       6        6       6        6                                         6                  6~      ~~                          ~         ~          ~           ~          ~           ~ .     .6 6 66.6                                                                                          6          666.    .6                                                                                                               6
6  6  66    66 66                                   66           6   6                               6  6 666 66                            6                              6       666                 6                                         66           666                           666                 6                             66            666             6666                                                 6666                                     6                      6              66
6 6 6 6.6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6.6 6 6                                         6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 66.6.6.6 6.6 6 6 6 .6 6.   .  .                                                                                                                                                                   6.     6 6 6 6 6 6 6-6 6                                                                                      6i66 6 6 6                                               66                   6666
6  6 6 6 6     6     6            6     6           6      6           6     6           6            6     6             6      6             6      6             6      6            6      6             6      6             6             6      6            6      6                    6               6 6           6 6           6 6          6              6       66                     66                     66                     66.6                                         66.6666666666666






- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Farm Input Cost-
PY 1         PY 2        PY 3         PY 4         PY 5
---Naira '000'  ------------------
Fertilizer            174           300         363          379          366
Seeds                  52            46          85            33          84
Insecticides            4             6          13            15          15
Herbicides              8            14          23            20          26
Fungicides and
Seed Dressing           7            11          12             9          13
Maize Stores            8            15          22            45          45
Tools                 120            60         120          120           80
Total         373           452          638          621         629
1/ See Annex 1, Table 5 for details.






NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Medium Term Loan - Seasonal Credit Requirements
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5
-----------------------     '000 Naira---------------------
Medium Term Loan 1/
Formal Irrigation Schemes          75             78.            62             15               _
Informal Irrigation Schemes        33             55             66             66               66
Valley gwamps                      33             55             66             66               66
Maize Stores                        8             23             45              90             135
Total                     149             211            239            237             267
Incremental 2                     149            211            239             88               56
Seasonal Credit 3/               - ----------------------- 000 Naira ------------------------
Sorghum                            50            125            205            298              400
Rice                               65            150            240             305             365
Maize                              -              20             60             128             200
Groundnuts                         -              40            108            132              160
Cowpeas                             4             20             40              60              80
Yam                                16             36             64             100             148
Cotton                             -              25             50            100              150
Total                      135            416            767          1,123           1,503
Incremental                       135            281            351             356             380
1/  Repayable after three years.  N110 per hectare covering Irrigation schemes
and valley swamps, farm development costs; N150 per maize store.
2/  Incremental loans are those incremental to repayments made in same year.                                       H
3/  Repayable each year at harvest; would cover costs of purchased inputs, tools,
and specialized services by Project; N40 per hectare for groundnuts, cowpeas,                                 ii
maize and yam; N50 per hectare of irrigated rice and cotton and N25 per hectare               
of sorghum.






ARIO     IPLEAT I A(  IOi
PROJECT 4025 00121CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RJET  IOT'N     `11
CAR1                                             I,          3,11    5,4     'I,O    21. I     ,0     0,4    .1,1    5.4       ,       .           27,0   50,0        13,5     50.0       13,5
STATION W4101N                                  I.1                     -    1) o  0    1,    2,0    1.56    2.1      I,      20      1.0           02.4   50.0       64,3       500       4.3
0101100I ,54                                                                  10 0,.4004.                      0              I,0 0,  0.4           6.0    5.0         3,2     50,0       3.2
GENLREAL O-ICE 444 (fANNUAL E'S T1 1,40                      o 440   0,0   40,0   5.1.0   0,    25,    00    200               10   24            02,    400 -        05,0      0.0     400.
ND40  4  HOUSE 1211N1AK (ANNUA  441,         ,04        15,0    04.     10.0 154-  O                                                          1SO.4   4 00.4    154,0         - 
F1200                                            1.T 14      0,0      1,      .4     04       1,      .A      40      11      1 11.0                 3,0     0.0       4,       0,0        4.5
PICK 4                                           1,54                         (.     1.12    0,       1,o  5  0,0     I ' 0.5  4.     0,5            4,0   40.0        3.2    50.0         3.2
SUB TOTAL                                                               1.4             S,              3.13            13A              3.31         15.0   51.3         7,3     51,3       3.2
4MAKLHOLE4 0430:44044 KJNIT
40                                              1, I01.                 4,1    1.4   4,        ,      1,8a    2.      1,0     1.      1,0            4,:00 ,!0,                             ,
PERSONA L 124041011                              1,00        I  0,0   E1     31      54       30      50       .1     44      ..       .           23,0   5040         1,7    40.0        11.2
2104 42                             1,50         1,0     1,5     4.4~~~~~~~~~~~~IS  4,2  3,5,     3,0    4,2,    4 0    4,5            10,    50.4        10,0    40.0       100.0
OAKEN                                           4,30         1,'0   6, 3       (1  011        O11,            4,      00      3,0     S,           41,0    50.0       40,2     50.0      41,2
B0T000YCLES                                     0,0         06,4    115  10.   0  16   1610 2.2  164.    2.2 04.    24,>                           89,0   50,0        4,46    54,0       44,4
0s11 r0TAL                                                            23               54,             44.481          50,.0           54.4        .2100,0   50,2      120,4     50,2      022,4
L44D USE PLANNING KNIT
CAR                                              1,00        2,01    3,6     2.41    3         .'      .         ).   3.4     2. 0    3,6          480   50,0          4,0     50,:0       4.0
4-WHE1 K 110100                                 2,40         0,      2,.-4    1,4     2,      1.L       'T0 2,  4     1,0 24   ,       2,           I02,0  00.         4,      54,0        40
444 T0TAL                                                               6,0             4,1'            4,0             4.                .0          30,0   500        05,0    50,4        oS,o
'4014 4044004443 UNIT
1200                                             1,00        1,0     0.4    2,0       3,0     2,4     3.      2,0 311         2.0     3.4          04.    40.0         4,2     50.4)       4.4
4 WHEE0K DR1VE                                  2,40         1,4      -24      .0    24       4,0    2.4      1.0    2,0 4    (.0     2,4          12.0   50,0         4,0     500         6,4
0411 1014K                                                              4,2             0,0             6.0             6,0              4 .0        24,250.0~          14.1    50,0        44,1
CA1R,0                                                       40        ,       ,       ,      00      14      14      1,       ,       ,             .    50,          4,5     40,4        4.0
4-WHEEL0010                                     2.44E0,402.I0.                       2,       0,0     2.4'    1,4     2.      1.4     2,4          02,0   50,0         4,0     50,0        4,0
PICK Up                                         1,54         2,0     4,4     2.4     3,0      2.0     4420    3        ,02a 30  2l.0    4,.0       15,0   50,0         4,4     440.        7,
3440000 20 KS0                                  2.30         1.4     2.3     3.0     6,0      3. 0    6,4     3,4     6, 9    4,0     6.0          24.0   50.         05,~;2   50.0      20,2
144010  44 14141,                                                                    1.       00      (.4K1,U,,.               .06,1               6'.0     00        32       5,          ,
TRU12                                           6.34         I, 1.0  4A 0.            5,       .4      . 4.3  0,      5       10       . I(,               SO,        400      50.4       10.0
M0T0R1(CC0L                                     1.1          4.      I.,1  I2,        (4    111.0     2.2,              0 2.0    2.10.4I   50.4                        2.      F10.        4
004 T00AK                                                              06,4           2-.4             24.2            20.0            24,9          104,2   40.5       52,7    50.5        57,2
4-W800K  40100                                  2.40         1.0     2,4      1,0    2.4      1.0    2,       0.0     2.4     (4      2,4          .2,0   50.01        4,0     50,0        4.
0000UP                                           0,50        0,0     05      30       4,53, 0         4.      0.0     4,      3.0     4.           (4.5   50,         100      54. 0      00.00
mcOTOrGCCL.E9                                   0.0          2,0     0,2      0.      0.13  01,0      1.3   104       1.,10            43           5.      0.          ,0     5.          2.4
4111 TOTAL                                                              4.1             0,2             4.2             0,2             0.2          34.0   50-,2       18,0     41.2       04.4
IRRIGATION0 UNIT
080                              1.44         1.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  1.4  2.0  4.  24 3.  .0    3 22.0           3.4          02       U 0       4.1     50.0        a,1
4-WHELK 00100                                   2,40         10      2,4      1.    2..4      0,0    2.       1.      24(0            2,4:0 '~     02.02   00          .0      50.         4.
TRUCK                                           4.30         1.      6.3     3.0    14.0    3.       040      3.0   14.4    3,)    I4,             41,4   50.8         12      500       4.
lE   0                                       I0.0         1.8       .5    4.4      4.0    3.0      4.      3.0    45       4,0     4.           1I,    54.0         005.0             10.
441NT, 0044480204 40011 (ANNUAL 040,2            OU         04.4    400      303.    33.0   40.0   48,       55.0   550   54.0   54.4             200.0   00.0       105.0    00.0      105.0
0S.8 TOTAK                                                            24.0             62,4            72.4            84.4            43.4         324.0   50.1       10203    00.0      170.3
T0TAL - 440012. 440440E6                                              44.2            1644,0          143,1           190,4           003,4         412.9   00.3    411.3        50.3    411.3
COMMERCIALK 4E8410E0 DEPT
S8AL4S AND CR0010 UJNIT
CAR1.4                                                       0.0I     1.4    2.0     3.4      2.0    3.4      2.0     3,4     2.0     3,4          14.2   40.0         4.1     50.0       4,
PICK UP                                          1.,500      10      1.      3,0      4.      30    4.5    3.01    4.5        3,0     4.5          14.5   50.0        00.0     50.0      10,4
VEHICKE UR4PAI  080411                          2.20         1.0    2.2       1.0    0.2      1.4    2.2      1.0    2.2      0.0    2,1           10.5   50.0         2,0     50.0       7.4
L4B4004TION T3U0CK                              2.2          2,0    5.4      4.0    0.0.      4.0   00.4      4.4   10.4    4.0   00.              44.4    50.0      24.0      00.0      24.3
MOTOIICO"LE.                                    0.1         A4.       1.      1.4     I,0     4,0    1.       4,90    1.1     4.0     0.            0.5   50,0        3.0    50.0         30.
0840008S                                        2.30        OU. 0 23.0   20.0D   44,.4   28.0   44.0   2011.   46,0   20.01   44.0               20.0   50.0        000,      50.0      103,.5
0ULLOOZERS                                      4.20         1.0    4.2    2.       04,64     2.0   4,64    2,       10.4    2.0   04,4            7.4     500        34.4     00        3,
CROP PROTECTION 4400
PIC, UP                                          050          ,      0.4.              .       .       .       ,0     05      00      15            25 5.             AU       08.0       4.8
F'RS104 0N    00                               040          T       0.4RI1.0        0,4     1.      1.       00     0.       00      S,           4.    50.0         4.5     50.        4.5
TRAIT00                                         2.30                    -             2.0     4.4  ,   ,      2,0     4.6    2.0      4.4          14,4   50.0        9,2     50.0        4.0
000AL - 00M4E0014L 4E0V00ES                                           42.0             93.0            43.0            43.0            04.0        400.0   50.2    010.5         50,2    210.5
ENOINEORINOI 0403'
0411EE                                          0.V 240      4.0     42,      2.0   02.       2.S24            ,      24       ,0    1 2,         024    480         24,      50.        04.
4-44   08la.4                                            20      4.       .        .       .      4.0     2.8     4,4      2,0     .4         6 2.4   40,0       12.0     5~0.       101
01048 OKANT A EOJIP.                            1.00       OR,   140.4  304.4  384.4  35.127' 324.'7  244.2.  240.5  19               9 145    0,4,42       00      47.        54      5271.01
T0TAL - ENUINEERINO  DEFT                                            00-2.4e         302.0            342.1           204.4           200,0  1,350,5   54,7           74,,4.    45.3    401,49
00414140 DEPT
CAR                                             1.0 1Bo,                      -004            10       ,       .      04      00      0,            ,      00         4.5     s 40.       45
4-WHEEL DRIVE                                   2.40          0.0    2. 4    (.      2,4      1.0     2.4I     1.0    24      00      24          12.    40.          40    50.4          600
30 O44  00                                   .0-                          .       ,       1.4    0,       0.0    0.       1.0     B,            .    50.0         3.6     50.4        3.6
44301K10.CI0E                                    4.12        0.0    0.U      2,      0 .2    2.11    0.2      2.40    0,2     2.0    4,7           0.4   50,0         0.5    50.          4,5
0014KE - 044111040 DE1'T                                                4,3             4,              42              4,       42                 20.0   4~0,2       14,0     50.0       04.
040                                             1.4           ,1      ,6     200 2.2.0    1,0,    2.4 2.0                     2.0     2N            00.    50.0       0.0     90.0       4,0
4-44EE- 4R1120                                  20           1,      2.      0,24 "I1,0               2'.4I    1,V    1.4    0,0 1)   2,4         622     5,          -1,     00.0       4,0
El0104070004                                    _.2         2,        .      02      .,       14      24   20.,,    <4   24,0    24               022      ,,Q        40       0,         0.
0811       1,00         1.o     .0      1.0    (.11    1.0      1.4     1,0    '.0      1.0      0.l(         0,0   50.0         0.5    50,0        4,5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  6o    5.0 6 
4-110I I  KO                                     .4U.                24      10        , 0            2,4     1.      2,      0.       .          220   50.0          4,      40.0        4.
0OTOkCYC0-ES                                    0. (2        5 .4    0.4      .0    4,6    2.01    0,0        7, 0    (.11    2,0     0.3          2.6   50.4          .0    500          0,
T01AL - MONITORING 1 0('1 ,                                           102              04.0            04l.4           04,9            04,4         22.4   50.3        311.0    504,       S4,
KESS! PRE-000E2,009C1N1 00410S                                        2..               0,1            50.4            50,.0            (0.0"  ,   2154.0                  -     -40,     254.0
GUIANO. 201AL                                                        440,2            240.0           /00.4           23,              115.4-i~ ~ .    54 02000,0'1   40,2 I ,3011.3
KLKK5440                                                          200. I0         44,             333               ( 46           1100      204                       .         -
EO OElRN 08040041  COST'i                                         16.              4.              314             31.0            (1>        .0 



I



A1;=Z; 2
-61   -                        ~~~~~~~Table 9
- 61 -                                     Yb1e
NIGERIA
.NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF BUILDING UNIT COSTS
Dnit       Naira/m2        m2/House      Unit Cost       Furniture 2/ Total Cost
Housing 1/
Senior Staff Houses               m2              200          215          43,000          7,000         50,000
Intermediate Staff Houses         m2              180           195         35,000          5,000        40,000
Junior Staff Houses               m2              150           145         21,800          3,200         25,000
Traditional Houses                m2              100            60          6,000            -            6,000
Buildings
Office Building (Headquarter)    m2               150         1,860        270,000         40,500        310,500
Workshop                          m2              110           450          49,500          7,500        57,000
Central Store and Office          m2              110           250          27,500         4,100         31,600
Fuel Depot                                         -            -             5,000           -            5,000
Parking                           m2                4           -               600           -              600
Access Roads and Drive Inns       km                            -            10,000            -           10,000
Electrical Supply                 -                -            -             6,000           -            6,000
Sewage (SEPTIC TANK)             No               100             3             300           -              300
Landscaping                      ha               150             2             300           -              300
Fencing                           m                10           750           7,500           -            7,500
Water Supply                      -                -            -             4,000            -           4,000
Recreational Facilities (lump sum)                 -            -            30,000           -           30,000
Guest House                       m2              200           200         40,000          6,000         46,000
Design and Lay-out 3.             --                            -            13,500           -           13,500
Subtotal (Headquarter)                                                                            522,300
Farm Service Centers
Store                             m2              110          200          22,000            -           22,000
Office and Chemical Store         m2              110            40          4,400            300          4,700
Lean-to                           m2               45            30           1,350            -           1,350
Security Fence                    m                10           180           1,800           -            1,800
Design  and Lay-out 3.5%          -                -            -               850           -              850
Subtotal                                                                                           30,700
Area Development Centers
Store                             m2              110           400         44,000            -           44,000
Office                            m2              110            75           8,250           650          8,900
Security Fence                    m                10           230           2,300           -            2,300
Electrical Supply                 -                -            -             2,500           -            2,500
Sewage (SEPTIC TANK)              No               _              1             300           -              300
Water Supply                      -                -            -             3,000            -           3,000
Design and Lay-out 3.5%           -                -            -             2,100            -           2,100
Subtotal                                                                                          63,100
1/  Staff housing allocated on Government level grades
as follows: Senior staff housin% for GL II and above,
Intermediate for grades GL 08 - 1I
Junior for GL 06 and 07
Low cost housing allocated to field staff of lower grades as required.
2/ Furnishing estimated at 15% of building cost.



- 62 -
NIGERIA                                                            ANNEX 2
Table 10
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan - By Expense Category
(N'000)
Categories of Proposed Bank Loan
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total    N'OOO    US$'000              Per Disbursement Schedule
Buildings and Houses (incl.
Roads & Equipment)
IBRD                         985       1,352      710       269        34       3,350    3,350   5,159                      4,300
PMG                          595         818      426       158        16       2,013
NSG                          933       1,285      671       249        25       3,163
Subtotal                   2,513       3,455   1,807        676        75       8,526
Vehicles, Equipment &
Spare parts
IBRD                       2,100       919        108       564       528       4,219    4,219   6,497                      6,000
FMG                          184        80         10        49        46         369
NSG                          290       125         15        78        72         580
Subtotal                   2,574    1,124         133       691       646       5,168
Irrigation Schemes
IBRD                         174       230        477       270       101       1,252    1,252   1,928                      1,300
FMG                          204       268        558       314       117       1,461
NSG                           320      421        876       494       185       2,296
Subtotal                     698       919      1,911    1,078        403       5,009
International staff &
consultants
IBRD                         546       633        672       681       539       3,071    3,071   4,729                      4,700
Local salaries and
wages
PMG                           414       650        843      943    1,044        3,RQ4
NSG                           650    1,021      1,323    1,482    1,641         6,117
Subtotal                   1,064    1,671       2,166    2,425    2,685        10,011
Operating costs
FMG                           198       387        464      502       541       2,092
NSG                           312       608        728       789      850       3,287
Subtotal                      510      995      1,192    1,291    1,391         5,379
Medium term loans
FMG                            58        82         93        34        22         289
NSG                            91       129        146        54        34         454
Subtotal                      149       211        239        88       56          743
Incremental Farm Inputs
IBRD                          333       446        694       746      831       3,050    3,050   4,697                      4,400
FMG                            38        50         77        84        93         342
NSG                            60        79        122       131       146         538
Subtotal                      431       575        893       961    1,070       3,930
Unallocated                                                                                                                     2,300
TOTAL                       8,485    9,583       9,013    7,891    6,865       41,837   14,942  23,010                     23,000



- 63 ^
ANNEYX 2
Table 11
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative
US$                US$
-  -    O tOQO ___ 
FY 80 - First Half             500.0              500.0
Second Half         1,500.0            2,000.0
FY 81 - First Half          3,000.0             5,000.0
Second Half         3,500.0            8,500.0
FY 82 - First Half          3,000.0            11,500.0
Second Half         2,600.0           14,100.0
FY 83 - First Half          2,200.0            16,300.0
Second Half         2,000.0           18,300.0
FY 84 - First Half          2,000.0            20,300.0
Second Half         1,700.0           22,000.0
FY 85 - First Half          1,000.0            23,000.0



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Cash Flow - Niger State Government
(V'I00)
Year 21
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Year 20   onward
CASH INFLOW
IBRD Loan                            1,300    4,220    3,636    2,727    2,403          649
FMG Subvention 1/                    2,120    2,395    2,255    1,970    1,715
Subtotal                         3,420    6,615    5,891    4,697    4,118           649
LOAN REPAYMENT
Water charges 2/                                  33        72      106       124       136       136       136      136       136        136        136
Medium term loans 3/                              14       34       203       276       309       285      292
Input repayment                        170      578    1,183    1,927    2,885    2,885    2,885    2,885    2,885    2,885             2,885      2,885
FMG Fertilizer Subsidy                 277       527      994    1,526    2,022    2,022    2,022    2,022    2,022    2,022            2,022      2,022
Subtotal                           447    L,152    2,283    3,764    5,307    5,352    5,328    5,335    5,043    5,043              5,043      5,043
Total inflow                         3,867    7,767    8,174    8,461    9,425    6,001    5,328    5,335    5,043    5,043             5,043      5,043
CASH OUTFLOW
Project Costs 4/                     8,339    9,859    9,971   10,152   10,423    8,033    7,813    7,427    7,026    6,657             6,657      6,657
Medium term cash loans (total)         149       211      239       237       267
Debt Service IBRD Loan 5/
Commitment fee                         107        86       57        33        14         3
Interest                                46       239      514       736       916    1,011        941      871       801       732         34
Principal                                                                               996       996      996       996       996        991
Total outflow                        8,641   10,395   10,781   11,158   11,620   10,043    9,750    9,294    8,823    8,385             7,682      6,657
Net Cash Flow (Deficit)             (4,774)  (2,628)  (2,607)  (2,697)  (2,195)  (4,042)  (4,422)  (3,959)  (3,780)  (3,342)   (2,639)   (1,614)
Cumulative Cash Flow                (4,774)  (7,402) (10,009) (12,706) (14,901))(18,943) (23,365) (27,324) (31,104) (34,446)
Existirg Expenditures 6/              (343)    (391)    (447)    (512)    (585)    (585)    (585)    (585)    (585)    (585)
Annual State Financing              (5,117)  (3,019)  (3,054)  (3,209)  (2,780)  (4,627)  (5,007)
1/   25% of project costs rounded.
2/   Terms:  average NIO per ha for informal, N40 for formal schemes (including N20 for maintenance).
3/   At 97. for 3 years.
4/   Includes contingencies, and total input purchases incremental to Year 0 use; excluding medium term cash loans.
5/   Terms:  20  years; grace period of 5 years on repayment of principal.  Interest at 7.0h on disbursed and outstanding portion.
Commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% on undisbureed portion.
6/   All costs and net cash flow calculated on incremental basis, but State is, in addition, committed to maintain real level of
existing expenditures on agricultural development in project area (includes contingencies).



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices (Domestic Retail) 1/
(Naira)
Cowpeas            Bambara           iYams        Cassava
----------------------metric tons----------------
Value at Bida 2/         400.0               300.0           200.0          71.0 3/
Local Costs 4/            :24.0               18.0            12.0           5.0
Traders' Margin 5/         36.0               27.0            18.0           6.0
Financial Farmgate       340.0              255.0            170.0          60.0
Economic Farmgate 6/    360.0               270.0            180.0          64.0
Government Guaranteed 7/ 180.0                               120.0         110.0 (gari)
1/ Projected 1985 prices (in 1978 constant terms) based on domestic retail prices.
_/ Average of six months post harvest retail price.
3/ Unprocessed cassava tubers valued at 25% of the average GARI price.
4/ About 6% of retail price.
5/ About 9% of retail price.
6/ Excludes traders'profit etc, estimated at 1/3 of local costs and traders' margin.
7/ '77 - '78 season.



ANNEX 3
NIGCERIA                                                 Table 2
NIGR STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
Estimated FimncLal and Economic Price
(Impat      hpt Parity Etlstaa)
Pinancial                                                     Economic
Rice     aise       Sorhum        Groundnuts      Cotton       Rice       Maize       Sorshum        Groundnuts       Cotton
P________________________________________------Per ton -----------------------------------------------
CIF/FOB Value 1/ U5$                   337.0   139.0          129.0          496.0         1,750.0
Shipping etc. 2/ US$                  + 60.0  + 50.0         + 50.0         + 50.0       -  100.0
W0B Laps _/ US$                         -        -             -                          1,650.0
CIF Lagos US$                           397.0   189.0         179.0           546.0           -
FOB Lagos N                             _         -             -              -           1,072,0        -           -                                       1,337.0
CIF Lagos 3/ N                       * 258.0   123.0           116.0          355.0           -        322.0        153.0         145.0          442.0           -
Import Duty 4/ N                          6.0     4.0           4.0            -              -           -           -           -               -
Export Duty 5/N                         -         -             -              -             161.0        --                -             -                      -
Subtotal N             264.0   127.0          120.0          355.0        1,233.0      322.0       153.0         145.0           442.0        1,337,0
Transport to/from Lagos Port N i&/ +  50.0  + 50.0          +  50.0      (+)  50.0    (Q)  75.0   +  33.0    +  33.0            + 33.0          )33.0            50.0
Value at Bida N                         314.0   177.0          170.0         405.0         1,158.0      355.0       186.0         178.0          475.0        1,287.0
Unprocessed equivalent 6/N             204.0    -              -             284.0           417.0     231.0          -      '                   333.0          463.0
LBA Allowances N                         -        -             -        (-)  21.0       (-)  22.0       -           -                            14.0           15.0
Processing Costs 7/ N                (-) 30.0 (-) 6.0       (-) 6.0      (-)  22.0       (-)  60.0       20.0        4.0            4.0           15.0           40.0
Local Costs 6/ N                     F) 12.0 (-)11.0       () 10.0       F)  11.0       (-)  16.0  (-)  8.0           7.0           7.0            7.0           11.0
Traders' Margin 9/N                 (-) 19.0 (-)16.0       (-) 15.0           -               -     (-) 13.0        11.0            9.0
Value of by Product 10/ N            +  16.0                   -              -          +   80.0   +  16.0         -               -             -             131.0
Farmgate Price N                        159.0   144,0         139..0         230.0           399.0     206.0       164.0          158,0         .296.0.         528.0
Government Statutory: minimr 11/N'   240.0   130.0            110.0          _275.O         308.0                     -            -                             -
Market Price 12/ N                      250.0   248.0          275.0          384.0           -
1/ Based o4n IBRD projections for 1985 in 1978 constant terms.  Rice FOB Bangkok Thai milled 57. broken
(US$4211/rft),lesa 20%; maize US No 2 Yellow FOB Gulf ports (US$139/nt); sorghum us No 2 nilo Yellow
FOB Gulf ports (US$121/mt); groundnuts CIF Europe (US$496/mt) and cotton mexican am 1-1/6' CIF
Europe (US$1,581/rt).
2/ Mission estimates;, includes freight, insurance.
3'  Financial prices in Naira estimated at official exchange rate N I = US$1.54; economic value'
based on N 1 = US$1.23.
4/  107. bon rice, 57. on maize and 4% on sorgh.m.
5/ 15% on cotton, none on groundnuta.
6/ value of paddy estimated at 65% of rice value, unshelled groundnuts at 70% of shelled value and
ginned seed cotton outturn at 36%.
7/ Parboiling,milling for rice and drying coats for maize and sorghum.
8/ Includes local transportation to market and ahort-term storsge costs.
Assumed to be 6% of market value.
9/ Assumed at 9% of market value.
10/ Bran from rice and seed from cotton.
11/ for 1977/78 season.
12/ Mission estimates.
13/ Two third LBA allowances, processing costs, local costs and traders' margins considered as economic costs.
14/ Includes port-handling.



- 67-                                 ANNEX 3
NIGERIA                                   Table 3
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budget 1 ha Rice
No Water Control              Improved                      Advanced
Pre-Project      Project      _re-Project  Project        Pre-Pro_jct  Protect
Seed 1/                    9.0           14.0          12.0         14.0              14.0       14.0
Seed Dressing 2/            -             0.1            -           0.1                -         1.0
CAN 3/                     0.4            2.0           1.0          4.0               5.0        8.0
Compounds 4/                -             2.0           1.0          4.0               2.0        6.0
Insecticide 5/              -              -             -            -                 -         2.4
Fungicide 6/                -              -             -            -                 -         9.2
Herbicide 7/                -              -             -           7.8                -         7.8
Mechanization 8/            -              -            8.5          8.5               8.5        8.5
Chemical Application 9/   -                -             -           5.0                -        15.0
Water Charges 10/           -              -             -          10.1                -       40.1
Miscellaneous 11/          1.0            1.0           1.0          2.0               1.0        2.0
Subtotal            10.4            19.1          22.5         55.5             30.5      113.0
Labor 12/                264.0          372.0         300.0        348.0             360.0      276.0
Total Costs              274.4          391.1         322.5        403.5             390.5      389.0
Crop Income 13/          180.0          384.0         384.0        600.0             528.0     840.0
Income to Family Labor 264.0            264.0         264.0        264.0            264.0      264.0
Gross Income             444.0          648.0         648.0        864.0             792.0   1,104.0
Net Income               169.6          256.9         325.5        460.5             401.5     715.0
Net Per Manday             1.5            2.3           3.0          4.2               3.7        6.5
1/ Pre-project uncontrolled rainfed farmers use local seed (25 kg/ha); under project they
would use dressed FARO 18 (40 kg/ha); (b) pre-project improved farms in the informal
schemes use undressed improved seed (30 kg/ha); under project improved farms; use 40 kg
dressed FARO 15 or FARO 23; (c) pre-project advanced farmers in the formal schemes use
undressed improved seeds(40 kg/ha); under project dressed FARO 15 or FARO 18 (40 kg/ha).
2/ Agrosam 5W at 0.9 kg per ton of seed, Price N 1250 per ton.
3/ Subsidized price N 40/ton. Economic price estimated N 188/ton.
4/ Subsidized price N 40/ton. Economic price N 237/ton.
5/ Gammalen 20 (1.2 liter/ha) protection against stem-borers; full economic price
N 1.2/liter) charged.
6/ Blasticidin (3.8 kg/ha) for control of blast and brown spot; full economic price
N 9.4/kg) charged.
7/ Butylate (3.2 kg a.i./ha) as a pre-planting herbicide; full price (N 2.4/kg a.i.)charged.
8/ Subsidized prices: ploughing and harrowing N 8.50/ha.
9/ Charged by project at N 5/applications.
10/ N 10 on informal schemes and N 40 on formal schemes.
11/ To cover depreciation and replaement of tools.
12/ Wage rate N 2.4 per manday. Total available family labor for rice 110 mandays; additional
requirements hired.
13/ At Government minimum price of N 240/ton.
14/ See Annex 3, Table 1 for full agronomic recommendations and Annex 1, Table 3 for per
hectare yield assumptions.



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budgets
(per ha)
Subsidized Prices (N)                                     Unsubsidized Prices (M)
Unit    Traditional    Improved       Iyr.vd        Unit Cost    Traditional    Improved    ImprBved          Unit Cost      Traditional    Improved    Improved
Al 812/                                                    A           N                                              A            B
Sorghum
1. Costs:  Seed 3/                         kg         7.00            12.00       12.00           0.35           2.45           4.20         4.20           0.35           2.45           4.20          4.20
Seed Dressing 4/                kg          -               0.06       0.06            1.20            -             0.07        0.07            2.00            -             .0.12         0.12
CAN 5/                          kg          -             100.00     100.00            0.03            -             3.00        3.00            0.16            -            15.80         15.80
Compounds 6/                    kg          -              50.00      50.00            0.03            -             1.50         1.50           0.21            -            10.35         10.35
Herbicide 7t                 kg/si          -                -         0.80            5.75            -              -          4.60            5.75            -              -            4.60
Chemical Application 8/      ha/op          -                -          1.00           5.00            -              -           5.00           5.00            -              -            5.00
Mechanization 9/                ha          -                -          1.00.         11.38            -              -          11.38          17.50            -              -           17.50
Tools 10/                       ha         1.00             1,00        1.00           1.00           1.00           1.00         1.00           1.00           1.00           1.00        . 1.00
Subtotal                          -                -           -              -             3.45           9.77        30.75            -             3.45          31.47         58.57
Labour 11/                     manday    55,00             80.00      55.00            2.40         132.00         192.00      13^.ZZ            2.40         132.00         192.00        132.00
TOTAL COSTS                                       -           -              -           135.45         201.77       162.75                        135.45         223.47         190.57   o
2. Yield 12/                              m.tons      0,60             1.20        1.20         234.00         140.40         280.80       280.80             -           140.40         280.80        280.80
3.  Returns  Net with Labour                                            -           -              -             4.95          79.03       118.05             -             4.95          57.33         90.23
Net without Labour                        -                -          -               -           136.95         271.03       250.05            -           136.95         249.33        222.23
Gross per manday                                           -           -              -             2.55           3.51         5.11            -             2.55           3.51          5.11
Net per manday                                             -           -              -             2.49           3.39        4.55             -             2.49           3.12          4.04
I/  Use of improved techniques but with hand labour.                                                                                                                                                             H 9i
2/  Use of improved techniques including some mechanization.                                                                                                                                                    uo z
3/  Traditional farmers use local seed, improved farmers use improved long straw long duration varieties                                                                                                             >:
e.g., Fars-Fara and F241 valued at 507 above market price.
4/  Five grams of Aldrex or equivalent per 1 kg of seed.
5/ Applied as a top dressing.
6/ Applied at planting time. Compound of 20(N)20 (P 0 ) 0(X 0).
7/  Atrozine 80.  Propazine could be an alternative on improved varieties.
8/ Application and incorporation of preplanting herbicides. The charge of N 5.00 per hectare to cover
application costs per operation in full.
9/  Ploughing (N 6.18 per ha) and ridging (N 5.20 per ha).  These charges are 657. of actual costs of an
efficient service.
10/ Nominal sum for depreciation and replacement.
l1/  Labour requirements include filling grain stores, but exclude threshing.
12/  Valued at post harvest market price (N 275 per m.ton) less local market traders margin (N 41.00 per m.ton).



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cro Bud ets
(per hectare)
Subsidized Prices (N)                                    Subsidized Prices (N)
Unit    Traditional   Improved   Improved   Unit Cost   Traditional   Improved   Improved    Unit Cost   Traditional   Improved   Improved
A           B 2/                                      A           B                                            A            8
MAIZE
1.  Costs: Seed 31                          kg           12.00         20.00       20.00         0.32            3.84         6.40         6.40         0.32             3.84         6.40         6.40
Seed Dressing 4/                kg             -            0.10        0.10         1.20             -           0.12        0.12          2.00              -           0.20         0.20
C. A. N.5/                      kg             -         100.00       100.0          0.03             -           3.00         3.00         0.16              -          16.00        16.00
Compound 6/                     kg             -          50.00        50.00         0.03             -           1.50         1.50         0.21              -          10.50        10.50
Herbicides 7/                   kg             -             -          1.00         5.75             -            -           5.75         5.75              -            -           5.75
Chemical application 8/         ha             -             -          1.00         5.00             -            -           5.00         5.00              -            -           5.00
Mechanization 9/              ha/op            -             -          1.00        11.38             -            -          11.38        17.50              -            -          17.50
Storage Protection 10/        kg/ton           -            2.50        2.50         1.30             -           3.25         3.25         2.30              -           5.75         5.75
Drying Facilities 11/           m3             -            3.00        3.00        6.67              -          20.00        20.00         6.67              -          20.00        20.00
Tools 12/                       ha            1.00          1.00        1.00         1.00            1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00             1.00         1.00         1.00
Subtotal                            -            -            -           -              4.84        35.27        57.40           -              4.84         59.85       88.10
0.
Labor  13/                    manday         60.00         85.00       50.00         2.40         144.00        204.00       120.00         2.40          144.00        204.00       120.00                    D
TOTAL COSTS                        _            _            _           _            148.84        239.27      177.40           -            148.84        263.85      208.10
2.  Yield 141                                m.ton        0.60          1.50        1.50       211.00         126.60        316.50       316.50       211.00           126.60       316.50       316.50
3.  Returns:  Net with labor                                -            -            -           -           (22.24)        77.23       139.10           -            (22.24)        52.65      108.40
Net without labor                           -             -           -           -            121.76        281.23      259.10           -            121.76        256.65       228.40
Gross per Manday                            -             -           -            -             2.11          3.72        6.33           -              2.11          3.72         6.33
Net per Manday                              -             -           -            -             2.03          3.31         5.18          -              2.03          3.02         4.57
1/ Use of improved techniques but with hand labor.
2/ Use of improved techniques with the aid of mechanized preparations.                                                                                                                                   a
3/ Traditional farmers use local seed.  Improved farmers use NCA or NCB. All seeds costed at 50% above market value.                                                                                    (
4/ Aldrex T at 5 grms per kg of seed.
5/ Top dressed.
6/ 20(N) 20(P 0) 10(K 0) applied at planting time.
7/ Atrozine 80 or Alachlor pre-planting herbicide. Linuron to be used if groundnuts are to be planted later.
8/ Application and incorporation of herbicides. 'ihe charge covers the application and incorporation costs in full.
9/ Ploughing (N 6.18 per ha) and ridging (N 5.20 per ha). These charges are 65% of the actual costs of an effective service.
10/ 2.5 of Lindane, 0.5a. or gammalin per kg of on-cob maize.
11/ Storage crib for wind drying at an estimated cost of N 20 per m3, coated over 3 years. Capacity of 0.5 m ton per m3.
12/ Nominal amount to cover depreciation and replacement.
13/ Labour includes filling of stores but not threshing or construction of storage cribs.
14/ Valued at market estimates 3 months after harvesting when the crop is dry enough to market (at N 248 per ton) less
local market traders margin (N .37) traditional farmers are expected to sell their crops as green maize, In this
budget all yields are expressed and valued as grain.



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budgets
(per hectare)
Subsidized Prices (N)                                         Unsubsidized Prices (N)
Unit    Traditional   Improved          Advanced       Unit Cost    Traditional    ImProved            Advanced       Unit Cost    Traditional            Improved       Advanced
Groundnuts
1.  Costs:  Seed 1/                           kg           30.00           45.00         45.00          0.45            13.50           20.25           20.25           0.45           13.50               20.25        20.25
Seed dressing 2/                ha              -             1.00          1.00          0.13              -              0.13            0.13           0.18             -                  0.18         0.18
Single Superphosphate  3/   kg                  -           150.00            -           0.03              -              4.50             -             0.14             -                 21.00          -
Compound 4/                     kg              -              -          200.00          0.03              -                -             6.00           0.21             -                   -          42.00
Fungicides 5/                   ha              -              -            1.00          9.16              -                -             9.16           9.16             -                   -           9.16
Herbicides 6/                   ha              -              -            1.00         13.20              -               -             13.20          13.12             -                   -          13.20
Chemical Application 7/    ha/ap                -              -            2.00          5.00              -                -            10.00           5.00             -                   -          10.00
Tools 8/                        ha             1.00           1.00          1.00          1.00             1.00            1.00            1.00           1.00            1.00                1.00         1.00
Subtotal                             -               -             -             -             14.50            25.88          59.74             -            14.50               42.43        95.79
Labor  9/                     manday         90.00          120.00         90.00          2.40          216.00           288.00         216.00            2.40          216.00              288.00       216.00
TOTAL COSTS                          -               -             -             -            230.50          313.88          275.74             -           230.50              330.43       311.79       o
2.  Yields 10/                              m.tons           0.50           0.90           1.10       326.00           163.00          293.40         358.60          326.00          163.00              293.40       358.60
3.  Returns: Net with labor                                   -               -             -             -            (67.5Q)         (20.50)          82.90             -           (67.50)             (37.00)      ( 1.20)
Net without labor                              -              -             -             -            148.50           267.50         298.90             -           148.50               258.00       262.80
Gross per manday                                -              -             _              -              1.80            2.40            3.90            -              1.80                2.40         3.90
Net per manday                                  -              -             _              _              1.70            2.20            3.30            -              1.70                2.10         2.90
1/ Traditional farmers use locally selected seeds.  Improved or Advanced farmers plant M25/68 or 69/101.
Valued at 50% more than market unshelled cost.
2/ Fernason  'D' or amonium molybdate mixed with Aldrex I at 300 grams per hectare.
3/ Applied to the seedbed on improved farms.
4/ A(N) 20(P 0 ) lO(K 0) applied to the seedbed on advanced farms.                                                                                                                                                           -m
/ T"hiram or Blastlcldiil  S as a spray specifically against cercospora.                                                                                                                                                     m w
6/ Trifluralin 48 as a pre-planting herbicide or 2    X
7/ Application of fungicides or herbicides. The charges cover the application costs in full.
8/ Nominal sum for depreciation and replacement.
9/ Figures include harvesting and shelling.
IO/ M,arket price (N 384.0) less 15%.



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budgets
(per hectare)
Subsidized Prices (N)                   Unsubsidized Prices (N)
Unit      Traditional    Improved    Unit Cost  Traditional   Improved            Unit Cost    Traditional         Improved
Bambara Groundnut
1.  Costs:  Seed 1/                        kg          25.00          50.00         0.47        11.75           23.50           0.47          11.75         93.50
Seed Dressing 2/              ha             -            1.00         0.13          -              0.13           0.18            -            0.18
Single Superphosphate 3/    kg               -          150.00         0.03          -              4.50           0.14            -           21.00
Tools 4/                      ha            1.00          1.00         1.00         1.00            1.00            1.00          1.00           1.00
Subtotal                          -             -            -          12.75           29.13             -           12.75         45.68
Labor  5/                   manday        55.00          70.00         2.40       132.00         168.00            2.40         132.00        168.00
TOTAL COSTS                       -             -            -         144.75          197.13             -          144.75        713.68
2*  Yield  6/                            m.tons         0.40           0.80       255.0         102.00         204.00          255.00        102.00        204,00
3.  Returns:  Net with labor                              -             -            -          (42.80)        ( 6.90)            -          (42.80)        ( 9.70)
Net without labor                          _-                         -          89.30          174.90             -           89.30        158.30
Gross per manday                           -             -            -            1.90           2.90             -            1.90           2.90
Net per manday                             -             -            -            1.60           2.50             -            1.60           2.30
1/ Local varieties valued at 50% above market prices.
3/ Fernagon D tc control fungal diseases.
3/ Applied to the seedbed.
4/ N-minal sum to cover depreciation and replacement.
5/ Includes shelling.
6/ Estimated at 75% of cowpea pricesfN 340.0).
v
X X4
n'



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budgets
(per hectare)
Subsidized Unit Cost (N)        Unsubsidized Unit Cost (N)
Unit   Traditional  Advanced   Unit Cost  Traditional Advanced  Unit Cost  Traditional Advanced
Cowpea
1  Costs  Seed 1/                   kg       10.00      25.00        0.64         6.40       16.00       0.64         6.40        16.00
Single Superphosphate 2/kg          -         50.00        0.03          -          1.50      0.14          -           7.00
Insecticide 3/          It          -         15.00        1.10          _        16.50       2.25          -          33.75
Chemical Application 4/ ha          -          1.00        5.00          -          5.00      5.00           -          5.00
Tools 5/                 ha        1.00        1.00        1.00         1.00        1.00       1.00         1.00         1.00
Subtotal                   -           -           -           7.40       40.00        -           7.40        62.75
Labor                manday      50.00       80.00        2.40       120.00      192.00       2.4        120.00       192.00
TOTAL COSTS                 -          -           -         127.40      232.00        -         127.40       254.75
2.  Yield  6/                     mi-tons      0.12       1.00      340.00        41.00      340.00    340.00         41.00       340.00 M
3.  Returns Net with Labor                      -           -           -         (86.40)    108.00        -         (86.40)       85.30
Net without Labor                              -           -          33.60      300.00        -         33.60       277.30
Gross per manday                   -           -           -           0.82        4.30        -           0.82         4.30
Net per manday                     -           -           -           0.70        3.80        -           0.70         3.50
1/ Traditional farmers use local varieties.  Advanced farmers use 3/41, 1/80 or 76/60.
2/ Applied to the seedbed.
3/ Endosulphan applied 6 times with ULV equipment to control insect pests.
4/ ULV application of insecticide.  The charge covers all application costs in full.
5/ Nominal sum to cover depreciation and replacement.
6/ Valued at local post harvest market price (N 400) less local market traders margin (N 60).
H><
03 M



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTLURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CroP Budgets
(per hectare)
Number of Units        1/             2/         Subsidized Costs (N)                                      Unsubsidized Costs (N)
YAMS                                        Units    Traditional                     Improved-   Unit Cost    Traditional   Impraved    Improved    Unit Cost   Traditional   Improved    Improved
A             B                                         A            B                                        A            B
1.  COSTS    Setts 3/                       kg         1,500.00      3,000.00       3,000.00       0.122          183.00       366.00       366.00       0.122         183.00         366.00       366.00
Seed dressing 4/              kg             _             15.00          15.00      1.00             -            15.00        15.00      2.00             -            30.00        30.00
Compound 5/                   kg                          100.00         100.00      0.03             -             3.00         3.00      0,21             -            21.00        21.00
Herbicide 6/                  kg/ai          -              -              1.60      7.80             -             -            7.80       7.80            -              -           7.80
Chemical application          kg/op          -              -              1.00      5.00             -             -            5.00      5.00             -              -           5.00    .
Tools 8/                      ha             1.00           1.00           1.00      1.00             1.00          1.00         1.00      1.00             1.00                       1.001.
Sub-total                     -              -              -              -         -              184.00        385.00       396.80      -              184.00        418.00       430.80
Labor                         manday    - 170.00          240.00         200.00      2.40           408.00        576.00       480.00       2.40          408.00         576.00      480.00
Total costs 9/                               -              -              -         -              592.00        961.00       876.80       -             592.00         994.00      910.80
2. YIELD 9/                                 m.tons         5.00          9.00           9.00    122.00            610.00     1,098.00    1,098.00    122.00            610.00       1,098.00    1,098.00
3.  RETURNS  Net with labor                                -              -             -          -               18.00        137.00      221.20       -              18.00         104.00       187.20
Net without labor                                                          -         -              426.00        713.00       701.20       -              42.60         680.00      667.20
Gross per manday                                                           -         -                3.59          4.58         5.49       -               3.59           4.58         5.49
Net per manday                                                             -          -               2.51          2.97         3.51       -               2.51           2.83         3.34
1/ Farmers using improved techniques with all hand weeding.
2/ Farmers using improved techniques with additional use of herbicides to reduce weeding.
3/ improved farmers use setts at 0.4kg per sett, i.e. almost double the weight of the traditional farmers setto.
4/ Aldrin 2.5 applied to setts prior to planting.
5/ 20(N)lO(P205)10(K20) applied prior to planting.
6/ Linuron 507 at 1.6 kg ai per ha prior to planting, surface applied.
7/ Costo cover the application of the herbicide in full.
8/ Nominal cost to cover depreciation and replacement.
9/ Valued at local post harvest price (N144) less the market traders margin (N22).



- 74 -
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budgets
(per hectare)
Subsidized Prices (N)              Unsubsidized Prices _2)
Unit   Traditional  Improved  Unit Cost  Traditional  Improved  Unit Cost Traditional Improved
Cassava
1. Costs  Seed 1/                  1,000          6.50        10.00      1.00         6.50         10.00        1.00       6.50        10.00
Compound 2/                kg           -         100.00      0.03           -            3.00       0.21         -         21.00
Tools 3/                   ha          1.00         1.00      1.00          1.00          1.00       1.00        1.00        1.00
Subtotal                       -            -         -            7.50         14.00        -          7.50       32.00
Labor 4/                 manday       90.00       130.00      2.40       216.00         312.00       2.40      216.00      312.00
TOTAL COSTS                    -             -         -        223.50         326.00        -        223.50      344.00
2. Yield 5/                         m.tons        4.00        12.00    60.00        240.00        720.00       60.00      240.00      720.00
3. Returns  Net with  Labor                        -            -         -          16.50        394.00         -         16.50      376.00
Net without Labor                     -            -         -         232.50        706.00         -        232.50      688.00
Gross per manday                      -            -         -           2.67           5.54        -          2.67        5.54
Net per manday                        -            -         -           2.58           5.43        -          2,58        5.29
1/ Stem cuttings, costed at the labor  rate for cutting.  Improved farmers
to use mosaic resistant varieties.
2/ 20(N) 20(P 0 ) 20(K O) applied before planting.
3/ Nominal cost to cover depreciation and replacement.
4/ Includes lifting and carting but not processing.
5/ Unprocessed cassava tubers valued at 25% of the average GARI price.
less 15% processing traders margin.
ax
rD~ (,
O0



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop2 Budgets
(p e-r bcare)
Subsidized Prices (N)                                       Unsubsidized Prices (N)
Unit     TradJtional   Advanced    Advanced    Unit Cost   Traditional              Advanced       Advanced       Unit Cost  Traditional            Advanced   Advanced
A l/         B 2/                                          A              B                                                A            B
Cotton
1.  Costs: Seed 3/                           kg          20.00          20.00        20.00           -               -               -              -             0.06           1.20                1.20        1.20
Boronated Compound 4/           kg             -           100.00       100.00          0.03             -              3.0            3.0            0.21            -                21.00        21.00
Inse'ticide 5/                litres           -           15.00         15.00          1.1              -             16.50         16.50           2.25             -                33.75        33.75
Herbicide 6/                    ha             -              -            1.00         4.56             -               -             4.56           4.56            -                  -           4.56
Chemical Application 7/         ha/op          -             1.00         2.00          5.00             -              5.00          10.00           5.00                              5.00        10.00
Mechanization 8/                ha             -              -            1.00        11.38             -               -            11.38          17.50            -                   -         17.50
Tools 9/                        ha            1.00           1.00          1.00         1.00            1.00            1.00           1.00           1.00           1.00               1.00         1.00
Subtotal                             -              -            -             -              1.00           25.50         46.44             -            2.20               61.95        89.01
manday        50.00          95.00         75.00          2.40         120.00          228.00         180.00           2.40         120.00              228.00      180.00
Total Costs                          -              -            -             -            121.00         253.50         226.44             -          122.20              289.95       269.01
2.  Yield  10/                            m.tons          0.30           0.90          0.90       308.00           92.40          277.20         277.20         308.00          92.40             277.20       277.20
3.  Returns  Net with labor                                 -             -             -             -           (28.60)          23.70          50.76            -           (29.80)             (12.75)       8.19
Net without labor                            -              -             -            -             91.40          251.70        230.76             -            90.20             215.25       188.19
Gross per manday                              -              -             -            -              1.85            2.92           3.70            -             1.85               2.92         3.70
Net per manday                                -              -             -            -              1.83            2.65           3.08            -             1.80                2.27        2.51
1/ Farmers using advanced techniques with all hand labor.
2/ Farmers using advanced techniques plus mechanical preparation and herbicides.
3/ Issued free to all farmers annually.
4/ 20(N) 20(P 0 ) 10(K 0) plus 5 borax applied to the seedbed.
5/ Endosulphan 25% ULV, six applications.
6/ Diuron or Dinitramine 80% at 0.4 kg.ai/ha.  Applied as a pre-planting herbicide.
7/ The charge covers the application and/or incorporation of insecticides and herbicide.
8/ Ploughing (N 6.18 per ha) and ridging (N 5.20 per ha).  These charges are 65% of
actual costs of an effective service.
9/ Nominal amount to cover depreciation and replacement.
10/ Government guarranteed minimum price.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Farm Input Costs
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
CAN                                  91         225         377         543         698
SSP                                   6          50         112         154         199
BSP                                  -            9          18          36          54
Compound                             92         230         398         581         756
Subtotal                   189         514         905       1,314       1,707
Pre-project                          80         so           80          80          80
Total incremental                  109         434          825      1,234       1,627
Herbicides                            8          22          45          65          91
Fungicides etc.                       7          118         30          40          53
Insecticides                          4         11           24          39          54
Subtotal                     19          51          99         144         198
Seeds                              126          318        580          871      1,220
Maize stores                          0.3         0.9         2.0         4.0         5.0
Farm tools                           24.0        36.0        60.0        84.0       100.0
Total farm inputs                  278.0       840.0    1,566.0    2,337.0    3,150.0
Labour                              284.0      813.0    1,459.0    2,207.0    3,031.0
Total on-farm. costs               562.0    1,653.0    3,025.0    4,544          6,181.0



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9   Year 10-20
Economic Costs 1/
Development
Salaries                        l,Y70      1,420     1,570     1,620      1,470
Vehicles & Equipments           2,050       750         91        300        300
Building & Houses              1,900      2,000        700        250        -
Irrieation Development           525        598      1,070        51B       168
Subtotal              5,645      4,768     3,431      2,688      1,938
Local Cost                        2,771     2,877      2,466      1,820      1,278
Foreign Exchange                  2,874     1,891        965        868        660
SER    & Foreign Exchange        3,593      2,364      1,206      1,085       825
Subtotal              6,364     5,241      3,672      2,905     2,103
Recurrent Costs
Salaries 2/                       -          -          -          --        -         972        875        785       700         630
Operating tosts                   255       412        450        460       400        360        300        270       250         200
Road Maintenance                  100       200        200        200       200         -          -          -         -           -
Vehicles & Equipments              -         -          -          -         -          80         70         60        50          50
Subtotal                355        612       650        660        600     1,412      1,245      1,115      1,000         880
On Farm Costs
Farm Inputs                      278        840      1,566     2,327      3,150      3,150      3,150     3.150      3,150       3,150
Labor                             284       813      1,459     2,207      3,031      3,031      3,031     3,031      3,031       3,031
Subtotal                562     1,653      3,025      4,534      6,181     6,181      6,181      6,181     6,181       6,181
Total Base line                   7,318     7,543      7,385      8,136     8,922      7,593      7,426      7,296     7,181       7,061
With 5% contingency               7.684      7.920     7.754      8,543      9,368      7,973     7,797      7,660      7,540       7,414
reonomic Renefits                  527      2,610      4,912      7,915    11,444    11,547    11,608    11,608    11,608         11,608
1/ Incremental costs excludes investments and other costs on  MEPU and 25% of training costs.
2/ Year 6, 90% of local costs in Year 5; lOZ annual decrease until Year 10.
5/20/78.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Value of Incremental Farm Production 1/
(N '000)
Naira/ha   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5    Year 6   Year 7-25
Sorghum            158         190       616         774      1,042    1,390       1,390    1,390
Paddy               206        247       824       1,545       2,328    2,905       3,008    3,069
Maize               164         -         66         377         771    1,213      1,213    1,213
Groundnuts          296         -        118         355         355       533        533      533
Bambara             270         -         54          54         162       270        270       270
Cowpea              360         36        36         144         288       504       504       504
Yam                 180         54       378         900       1,494    2,448      2,448    2,448
Cassava              64         -        154         288         525       755        755       755
Cotton              528         -        264         475         950    1,426      1,426    1,426
Total                     527    2,510       4,912       7,915   11,444    11,547   11,608
1/ See Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2 for economic farmgate
prices and Annex 1, Table 3 for incremental production.



NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return for Formal and Informal Schemes
(N '000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Years 10-25
Input Costs
CAN                                      27        83       128       154       177
20-20-20                                 34        88       137       169       198
Seeds                                    18        42        67        85       102
Chemicals                                15        29        44        47        45
Subtotal                       94       242       376       455       522
Pre-development                          50        50        50        50        50
Subtotal                       44       192       326       405       472
On-farm labour                           43       108       186       259       332
Total Farm Costs                         87       300       512       664       804        804      804       804       804        804
Investment Costs                        526       598    1,070        518       168         -        -         -         -           -
Operating Costs                         130       178       200       215       230        180      160       116         90         90
Vehicles, Equipment, etc.                30        30        30        30        30         30       30         30        30         30
Total                           773    1,106    1,812    1,427    1,202         1,014      594        950       924        924
With 5% Physical contingency            811    1,611    1,902    1,498    1,262          1,065   1,043        997        970        970
Benefit                                 255       577       927    1,174    1,400        1,400   1,400    1,400    1,400          1,400
ERR = 12%.



- 80 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector/Sub-sector
Al   Annual Reports of the Federal Department of Agricultural
Research, 1973/74.
A2   Experimental Cropping Systems Improvement Program,
Notes from 1977 cropping scheme meeting, IAR, Samaru.
A3   Soil Survey Bulletin No. 44, IAR, Samaru.
A4   Economic Evaluation of the Use of Herbicide on Selected
Crops at the Farmers' Level Under Hand and Oxen Farming
System, A. 0. Ogungbite (mimeograph).
A5   ULV Spraying for Cowpea in Northern Nigeria, Samaru
Research Bulletin 283, 1977.
A6   A Survey of Cotton Farms near Mokwa, Nigeria, Samaru
Research Bulletin 197, 1973.
A7   Influence of Plant Density and Nitrogen on Yield and
Milling Quality of Lowland Rice in Nigeria; Fagade and
Ojo.
A8   Guidelines for Local Government Reform, Federal Republic
of Nigeria, August 1976.
A9   Master Plan for Local Government Reforms, 1976, N.S.G.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1   Bida Agricultural Development Project Preparation Report
(4 volumes) FAO/IBRD CP Program. Report No. 23/77 NIR 11
1977.
B2   Feasibility study of Smallholder Rice Projects in the
Niger State, volumes I and II. FMARD, September 1977.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
C.        Selected Working Papers, Tables drawings, etc. by IBRD
Appraisal Mission
Cl   Agriculture - Background
C2   Agricultural Potential
C3   Irrigation Development
C4   Civil Works



_ 82 -
NIGERIA
NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
FMARD                                   ............-------------   Ministry of
.............Natural Resoures
ALMEPU                            LGC                              l f BPEC                    ~J.............. |strtJ
z  |   BPMU        |- ~            B
Project Manager's
Office
Administration                    Fiance
.MIPU   11111                   ~~~~~~Training                Cmeca            sAgricultural                           ~       ~        neic~m
,nd:]_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1Stnallhold.r
Staff                Inpu~~~~t S. E    ]E.gensionOa**J 
Land Wse Sure                            FamesLreiandin                                                            Usvelom
and Pl-nin'g'  Fam,el,             4        Credit A                           De-~~~~~Lapnd Bs uildings
Cooweatiu-esp   n  Hir                                                WarmkTrial
-[=S-a cas    ~         ~         Mltplctin                          okio
Fi rotection                                                               riato
Cooperati                                                             elomn
Deuslopment 
LIne of Command                                   MTICj 
...............Aduitory                                                                 I                                  I
-------                   Tachni-aI Liaison
World Bank - 18603



op5   .                                                    a.                                te                                      IR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1RD i37O8RI
N..  E  R                           ,                                                      v    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD Assisted Agricultural Projects
E.,asting, Appraised and Under Preparation
-j  SOrtoTo  KotsitO                                          rtaoro            reXe                                                                  Agr,ccltcrol Developlnent~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ag,clt,.1  e-opren
t                   ~~~~~~EXISTING
LeA. [oar. 454-UNeI;
9'  .                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ay-ngb  [no- 1455-UNI)
PF-t.. Loa 1092-UNIU)
B   0   R   N   C)                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Gaso  Ioo  1099-UNI)
lea I                                                                                                                                                                                                       f  r~~~~~~~~~0        04  Goe1be (L-o 1164-UNI)
Eart AkekolOrdol, Gyn Norh
VU7, '                                                 T14 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LZUNDER PREPAATO
I.q('                                                                                                                                       C-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~us  Ente1-o
Koauna Stat.
K... Stole
~~~   ~~~ ~Tr-i-g Project
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APPRA SED
I    t7                 T    ~~~~~Agr,-It-tl a-dR-
Manaemet Tte,n,rg rlnsttut
5  ilk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SOLO  EA                                                                                                                                     Tree Crop Projects-
ES STING
AL                                                                                         '7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L Z C.-oItlLo-rl64-UNI)
'g  CAPITA'L                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~CooIlLoI4SSI
ORII IV                                                                                                                                       Or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Gdo Gil Polo Loon 1192-UNI)
y                                                                                                                                                             8-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ede G.J Pen, JL-o 138-UNIl
Into G I Palm (Loo 1191-UNI)
tRste State Gd Palm (Loan 1525-UNI)
MAKUR                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APPRAISED.
A rA IV GgA  ,t"                                                                                                   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDER PREPARATION
Cros  R-nt Estat
mIrgot-o Pro ect
,ees  ,asea. seee.e aenoe~maoeemepeeEXISTING
TY    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ Oeo i                   -omese-eeessce      n                                                                 e0                            Ri-e Lhoan 1103-UNI)
E  E   L                               t                                                                   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L-vetock Development Project
M 0                                                                                       ALG~~~~~~~~~~*555M~50  NOSERIA  A  ta  ne    oo  51UI
sagna                 G                                                         "P mo a                                                             EXISTING.
-.  WK r7GtfF                         5+                                          OSS.  N1 GEe    ,                          0     Not -na Li-etock Pnodan,on Co tRches,~
RC  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                       Weste- Li-ntok Ce Ronche
eseose                     oes-            COa l"0   f    S               X     A-. lPestat lne-s,g.t_o  C eter
GFem Reere- Plr Grac  Ranhes






IBRD 13265
JANUARY 1978
NIGERIA-NIGER STATE
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A TYPICAL SWAMP LAYOUT
Head Bund                             Sluice
SpillTa i                                 (Sigl  Bunding)l
-Main Drainage Canal
(Double Bunding)
Peripheral Spillway
Cross Drainage
(Subsidiary)
Ridges                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pick-up Structure
Terra ce  Pdy Plot
(Ridges ollow Contours)
2WA W0>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onor






I BRD 1 3306R
5'00'                              530'                               600'                                         N t   GER: - _36
NIGERIA
-10,00,                                                                                    10,001-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ioo  NIGERIA
BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAIN ROAD NETWORK AND PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL CENTERS                                                                 rNer                          t~ '
To Kaduno
~~,G"B~~~~ A  K;@ 0i  '
To Kaduna ~~N I G E R   S T A T E "
. \ . ffu,ibok~rvt:                                                  r ;i    ;    _lep,ncloo /oncr
/ , " \   rO                       A1linna 0: ; r S 'MA O
830  State Roads                                                                      30'
/>             rO Aia/nji                  //-  - Earth Road n'\                                         _                              MINNA
M,s 0         10        2/         30        4 A                                                                  \B U  J  A       9030'-
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                 6  (  Lemou. _;~ 
Tifi                                K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T oo
t     \      9       ,       <       *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  L A  V  U  N  :Ebk        genG,,4 BfKe,.eg
50 00'            50 00'                            6~~~~~~~~~~~at   00
Raba                           Ku=igi                                                                                       U
A    Areo Developnqent Centers  +    Landing Strip      %       9     _     #      Katcha:    ,                  J             XD~~~Klog  kut
--- Elorln anRaoas                                                                                                                       "pat  *,... ,l Lcpc  ,
*----UdrDsgno                                                                (191_  ---.. *,.. 
rprofeewY#enAi~~g Boot                              LU s    K
5 00'  5 30'                         6- oog                              6 30            l\    + Korif/'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
Project~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUR Bonay97---Tak






iBRD 113307
5 00                                  5- 30                                   6- 00'                                        -     NGE R    _
NIGERIA
10o                  BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                             10Oc- $ENN          NIGERIA
PHYSICAL, GEOLOGICAL AND RAINFALL                                                                                                 UN"Ni'A'
N I GE R   STATE                                          I
6 . ' 30'' 30
1,835    L     Lower Niger TerracesI,                                                                                                   \C.   o
k ..--  Area Covered by Detaziled Soil Survey                           0                                        X 4A,>
-S120'..  Contours, in Meters                           I9Br                                                                       
,,,-..   l sohyets, in Millimeters                                                                                        .        \     
A      Meteorological Stations                                                                                      XS.kh         \j (
-a'30                           @     State Capitol                                                                                                 ,Ez <* nl ti\\ \              HJ 89301-
PrState Boundaries
9 i8O2Upp r 0  10     20     30     40      50r
M1leo 0         10         20          30          40 c
700' 5a30' 6       C'                                                                                                 630
JANUARY 1978






IBRD 13309
5.00'                                     5 30                                       6 00-
N IGERIA
-1000'                 BIDA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT  AREA                                                                                                               N       
To K dun a
fio Kadurza           ~NI G ER    STAT E                                                                  - .       AER N
1, u SURhtfA~~~5 05                                      M_intenot nl3Ldr
0  /.   -2MEaREERL *51Ko5  X ina6' 303
j>E: |. .;, g.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~.',......306                                                             .                                                - A.i  7:     MINNA
S- ~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                .AGAIE(Q, s>  ~AP
Local Cou*s    _}< '  ) . A ncil Buae .UBANG L.;-A- 9;*   99,    w ;      GBANGBA       /
/; > ~Mtlw gg5>]/4ZAjor Cattle**%  *   Rout  e                                       GU N1 ,;--  
ID WI'                                                  G  B  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ., ~At*Adfl.WAAAAAA~ A
CM,~~~~~~~~~~  _KV                                          FAN~~~~~~~~~~JAURY17
t5 & 6;ggi s, M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN(J  ITA                                      B       IDA, t )4//FA
< vt8DU>JAAGR -,>,T j_i8ML A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.72                                                            BOKU'   c     LAPAl1 
.) SO l/orin \<2S6 WGBSA;W ; J ,-.-                    DZi jA  G!    I                                                I E!._(
. and iagos . - - . ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BARATSO                                    {,DP LANZ,XEUG   9-0
KWARA  STATE                                                                                                                             L APAI;A               -C
0, (SKO            I         (    EDOKSU\!LAPAI. r r
.                   <     CL        (/         ~~~~~~~~~~14 98  A<^\!/-                                                 !ivF
Project Boundary                ,            Areas Considered to have had       <                                                
,    Proposed Sugar Estate                      G.Mainrsions Inetto                                                                MA            SOJE/           (   PASHiAIM    . 
a6-0      Name I Area in square kfm.             State Capital                                                                                      r-4$-J                             
A      Irrigation Schemes              -    - Local Council Boundaries           jR+,S--_1
* Research Stations                             State Boundaries                                                   |                                                   S--+F UBANGI  V
0      Stock Control Posts                3     Rivers                           6;1,4   .*                                                                                              <
.:  Major Cattle Route                                                        N                                                                   4                 
-8- 30'                                                                                      |                                                                    S^EOLAA                         i)-30'-
Kd ... t-S 0    10     20      30      40      50                                                                                       X       
MIIe5 0     10~I         2'0         j0I0                                                                                            >      
S- 00'                                    5- 30'                                     6- 00'                                      6 30'              A
JAN UAR Y 19774



