1OCUMENTS    LOAN NUMBER 2038 MOR
Project Agreement
(Second Small-Scale Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
Dated                             , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2038 MOR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
ECONOMIQUE (hereinafter called BNDE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Kingdom of Morocco (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy
O      million dollars ($70,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BNDE agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set forth;
(B) by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower
and BNDE, a part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to BNDE on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BNDE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
) the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BNDE shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence


﻿-2-
and efficiency, in accordance with the provisions applicable to
BNDE in the Loan Agreement, including the provisions of Schedule 4
thereto and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, and industrial practices.
Section 2.02. BNDE, on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement, may withdraw from the Loan
Account the equivalent of amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, amounts to be paid) by BNDE or a CB on account of
withdrawals made, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement, by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-
Loan.
Section 2.03 (a) Each request by BNDE for withdrawals from
the Loan Account in respect of a Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a
summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Invest-
ment Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amorti-
zation therefor.
(b) Except as the Borrower, the Bank and BNDE shall other-
wise agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) of this Section shall be presented to the
Bank on or before December 31, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify BNDE of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) BNDE shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank w1th regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) BNDE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by BNDE of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.06. BNDE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the BNDE Convention. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, BNDE shall not take or concur in any action which would


﻿-3-
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the BNDE Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. BNDE shall, at all times during the implemen-
tation of the Project, maintain its small-scale industry division
staffed with duly qualified and experienced personnel in suffi-
cient numbers and provide such division with all funds and other
resources required to process the Sub-Loans.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BNDE
Section 3.01. BNDE shall carry on its operations in accor-
dance with appropriate administrative, financial and industrial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. BNDE shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operation and financial condition.
Section 3.03. BNDE shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of BNDE thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify BNDE
thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BNDE:
Banque Nationale pour le
Diveloppement Economique
B.P. 407
Rabat
Morocco
Cable address:                      Telex:
BADMAROC                           31942 M
Rabat                              Rabat
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BNDE, or by BNDE on behalf of the Borrower


﻿under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
Prsident-Directeur General or such other person or persons as
the President-Directeur General shall designate in writing,
and BNDE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONST%UCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this <3,h.    day ofJtL, 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


