CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1667 UNI
Project Agreement
(Bida Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NIGER STATE OF NIGERIA
Dated September 17, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1667 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and NIGER STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called Niger State).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Niger State agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Niger State, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Niger State on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Niger State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional term has the following meaning, namely, "BPTCC" means
the Bida Technical Co-ordinating Committee to be established
pursuant to Section 2.01 (d) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Niger State shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural


﻿-2-
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Niger State shall establish and thereafter maintain
a Bida Project Executive Committee in a form and with membership,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. Further
provisions relating to BPEC are set out in Part A of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
(c) Niger State shall establish within MNR and thereafter
maintain a Bida Project Management Unit in a form and with member-
ship, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Further provisions relating to BPMU are set out in Part B of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d) Niger State shall establish and thereafter maintain
a Bida Project Technical Coordinating Committee in a form and with
membership, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank. Further provisions relating to BPTCC are set out in
Part C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(e) Niger State shall publish in its official gazette a
notification of the establishment of BPEC and BPMU which shall
set out their membership, functions and responsibilities.
Section 2.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction on
the obligations of Niger State under Section 2.01 (a) above,
Niger State shall:
(i) establish at a commercial bank and thereafter
maintain with adequate funds (including an initial
deposit of N1,000,000) a bank account to be used
by BPMU exclusively for payments for goods and
services required for the Project;
(ii) authorize BPMU to establish overdraft facilities
equivalent to six months' project expenditure
requirements determined on the basis of BPMU's
annual budget approved by Niger State and fully
guarantee payment obligations of BPMU under
the said overdraft facilities;
(iii) provide in its budgets, and pay to BPMU at least
three months in advance, quarterly contributions


﻿-3-
for the Project based on BPMU's said approved
annual budget and estimated by Niger State and
the Bank to amount in the aggregate to 16.0
million Naira (exclusive of subsidies on farm
inputs) over the project period; and
(iv) continue to finance (in addition to the financial
contributions required under (iii) above) the
current real level of expenditures in the Project
Area.
(b) Niger State shall cause BPMU to furnish to FMAWR, MNR
and the Bank the annual budget proposed for the Project and
approved by BPEC no later than four months immediately preceding
the commencement of the fiscal year to which it relates.
Section 2.03. (a) Niger State shall employ for the Project
the following staff whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, namely, a Project Manager, chief
accountant, senior training officer, senior evaluation officer,
chief technical officer, land use planning officer, farm manage-
ment adviser, senior agronomist, senior irrigation engineer, two
irrigation engineers, a commercial services manager, chief
engineer and a mechanical engineer. The senior training officer
shall be appointed no later than December 31, 1979.
(b) Niger State shall give high priority to recruitment
of staff for BPMU and shall ensure that MNR takes all necessary
action promptly to second to BPMU any technical or other staff
whose secondment BPMU may request.
Section 2.04. (a) In order to assist Niger State in carrying
out the Project, Niger State shall as necessary employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment (including terms of reference) shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) Niger State shall cause BPMU to prepare the detailed
terms of reference of the consultants who will be employed under
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(b) Niger State shall: (i) cause BPMU to liaise closely
with the Central Fertilizer Unit of FMAWR in the procurement
of fertilizer for the Project and in particular to furnish to
the said Unit BPMU's fertilizer requirements at the times speci-
fied in the time-table mentioned in Section 2.03 of the Loan
Agreement; and (ii) cause BPMU to procure other farm inputs for
the Project directly from suppliers.
Section 2.06. (a) Niger State undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Niger State to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Niger State
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) Niger State shall cause BPMU to furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) Niger State shall: (i) _ause BPMU to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) cause BPMU to
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or


﻿-5-
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Niger
State and the Bank, Niger State shall cause BPMU to prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the peiformance by Niger State and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) Niger State shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties, equipment, records
and documents relevant to the Project.
Section 2.08. Niger State shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Niger State shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) Niger State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Niger State shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by Niger State of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) Niger State shall provide in its budgets
amounts sufficient to cover any loss BPMU shall incur in any
year on account of the sale or provision by BPMU of farm inputs
or services to farmers participating in the Project at subsidized
prices or rates determined by Niger State. Niger State shall pay
BPMU, no later than September 30 of the year immediately
preceding the year in which the farm input or service is to be
procured, an amount equal to a reasonable estimate of such loss
furnished by BPMU to Niger State. After the farm input or service
has been procured, necessary adjustments shall be made between
Niger State and BPMU to ensure that payments made by Niger State
pursuant to this Section shall correspond to the loss actually
incurred by BPMU.


﻿-6-
(b) Niger State shall cause BPMU to sell all farm inputs,
and to provide plant protection, maintenance of formal irrigation
schemes, tractor hire and all other hire services (other than
inputs or services sub-sidized by the Borrower or by Niger State)
to farmers participating in the Project at prices or rates that
shall permit the recovery by BPMU of the full cost to BEMU of
such inputs and services.
(c) Niger State shall cause all farmers benefiting from
irrigation schemes included in the Project to pay to BPMU charges
sufficient to permit the recovery, over the productive life
of such schemes, of the construction costs of the schemes  The
said charges shall be at least:
(i) N10 per ha per year for formal irrigation
schemes during the first three years of the
Project and thereafter N20 per ha per year;
and
(ii) N5 per ha per year for informal irrigation
schemes during the first three years of the
Project and thereafter N10 per ha per year,
and shall be reviewed by the Bank and Niger State periodically
to determine their adequacy.
Sectidn 2.11. (a) Niger State shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the carrying out of the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) Niger State shall no later than December 31, 1979
make available to BPMU at least 200 ha of land to be used for the
establishment of an upland farm for the first stage multipli-
cation of seed cotton, sorghum, maize and groundnuts.
(c) Niger State shall no later than April 1, 1980 cause to
be transferred to BPMU responsibility for all agricultural
extension work in the Project Area.
Section 2.12. Niger State shall no later than June 30,
1983 prepare and forward to the Bank for its review and comments


﻿-7-
detailed plans for the long-term maintenance of roads in the
Project Area including the allocation of maintenance responsibil-
ity between Niger State's Ministry of Works and Housing and
the Local Government Councils having jurisdiction in the Project
Area, funding procedures and details of logistical support.
Section 2.13. Niger State shall cause MEPU assisted by the
Planning Unit of APMEPU to prepare a report and formulate pro-
posals on the Project's progress and shall no later than December
31, 1982 forward to, and review with, the Bank and the Borrower
such report and proposals and shall for the purpose of this
review make such recommendations for the future of the Project as
it shall consider necessary.
Section 2.14. The lending terms and conditions for sub-loans
made out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Niger State shall cause BPMU to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance, with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. Niger State shall cause BPMU: (i) to have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested which shall include a statement as to
whether or not the proceeds of the Loan made available to BPMU
have been used for their intended purpose; and (iii) to furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of BPMU and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Niger State thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Niger State thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancel-
lation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted Lo be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For Niger State:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Natural Resources
Minna
Niger State
Cable address:
SECNAT
Minna
Niger
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Niger State may be taken or executed
by its Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Natural Resources or
such other person or persons as the said Permanent Secretary
shall designate in writing, and Niger State shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
NIGER STATE OF NIGERIA
By Is/ Muhammadu Saba Kutigi
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, tractors, road-
making and other equipment, materials, fertilizer, chemicals,
insecticides and farm inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, Niger State shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective. bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. Niger State shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to Niger State of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, tractors, road-
making and other equipment, materials, fertilizer, chemicals,
insecticides and farm inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of


﻿- 11 -
less than $100,000 but more than $30,000 and contracts for
buildings, houses and stores and irrigation works shall be let
after competitive bidding based on local advertising in accor-
dance with local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Vehicles, tractors, road-making and other equipment, mate-
rials, fertilizer, chemicals, insecticides and farm inputs esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less shall be
purchased through local competitive shopping.
3.   Force account may be used in the construction of roads,
buildings, headworks and canals for irrigation schemes and other
structures where appropriate.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied
goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to BPMU of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental'to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Nigeria if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that


﻿- 12 -
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in the territory of the Borrower equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in the territory of the Borrower.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first
compared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the
lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exemp' importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Niger State shall cause BPMU
to furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding


﻿- 13 -
documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall cause BPMU
to make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Niger
State shall, before a final decision on the award is made, cause
BPMU to inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which BPMU
intends to award the contract and shall cause BPMU to furnish to
the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Niger State and BPMU and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
lelivery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
Niger State shall cause BPMU to furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Niger State and BPMU and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   To the extent possible, items to be procured shall be
bulked to permit the optimum use of competitive bidding.


﻿14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Lending Terms and Conditions for Sub-loans
1.   BPMU shall make sub-loans to farmers participating in the
Project for planters, sprayers, crop storage facilities, farm
tractors, shellers and other agricultural inputs under a sub-loan
agreement between each such farmer and BPMU.
2.   Sub-loans made to any one farmer and outstanding shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of N10,000 and sub-loans
made to a registered cooperative shall not exceed in the aggre-
gate the equivalent of N20,000, or such other amounts in both
cases as the Borrower, the Bank and Niger State may determine.
3.   Development sub-loans for irrigation shall bear an annual
interest rate equal to 9-1/2% or a rate two percentage points
above NACB's current lending rate, whichever is the higher and
shall be repayable within three years. Seasonal sub-loans shall
bear a service charge equal to 10% or a charge two and one-half
percentage points above NACB's current lending rate, whichever is
the higher and shall be repayable within 12 months.
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "NACB's current
lending rate" means the maximum interest rate charged by Nigerian
Agricultural Cooperative Bank on its loans at the time a medium
term or seasonal sub-loan is made.


﻿15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Part A:   Bida Project Executive Committee
(1) BPEC shall consist of the following members:
(a) Permanent Secretary, MNR                   Chairman
(b) Permanent Secretaries of                    Members
Niger State's Ministries
of (i) Finance and Eco-
nomic Development; (ii)
Works and Housing; (iii)
Trade, Industry and Co-
operatives; (iv) Local
Government and Community
Development; and (v) Health;
or their representatives.
(c) A representative of the
Federal Ministry of Agri-
culture and Water Resources;
(d) Secretaries of each Local
Government Council in
the Project Area; and
(e) BPMU's Project Manager.
(2) The chief administrative officer of BPMU shall be the
Secretary of BPEC.
(3) BPEC's duties shall include:
(a) determination of project policy;
(b) budgetary and financial control of the Project
including review and approval of the annual
budget proposed by BPMU and submission of such
budget for approval by Niger State;
(c) approval of annual work programs;
(d) appointment of senior management and technical
staff; and


﻿- 16 -
(e) ensuring co-operation between, and co-ordination
of activities of, institutions and agencies parti-
cipating in carrying out the Project.
Part B:   Bida Project Management Unit
(1) BPMU shall be primarily responsible for the carrying
out of the Project.
(2) BPMU shall be answerable to BPEC on all matters relat-
ing to the execution of the Project.
(3) BPMU shall be advised on technical matters relating
to the Project by the Bida Project Technical Coordi-
nating Committee.
(4) BPMU's other duties shall include:
(a)  the assumption of MNR's agricultural service
(excluding fisheries, livestock and forestry)
and the produce inspection divisions in the
Project Area;
(b)  the execution of a project irrigation development
program by a specialized unit of BPMU; and
(c)  the administration of the Local Government Coun-
cil's existing extension agricultural services.
(5) BPMU shall be headed by the Project Manager and shall
have the following five departments and units:
(a) Training Unit
(b) Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(c) Commercial Services Department
(d) Agricultural Services Department
(e) Engineering Services Department
Each of the departments and units shall report to
the Project Manager.


﻿- 17 -
(6) BPMU shall send its proposed annual budget to BPEC for
approval and, after apprLval, to FMAWR for information.
Part C:   Bida Project Technical Coordinating Committee
(1) BPTCC shall serve as the local coordinating unit of
BPMU.
(2) Its membership shall be determined by BPEC and shall
include:
(a) representatives of the Local Government Councils
having jurisdiction in the Project Area;
(b) representatives of other agencies of Niger State
participating in carrying out the Project; and
(c) selected farmers and project technical staff.
(3) BPTCC shall advise on the siting of farm service
centerS and roads, review of project related disputes,
establishment of guidelines for land allocation and
ensuring minimum overlap of project and non-project
activities.


