Report No. PID9426
Project Name                     Kazakhstan-Drylands Management Project (@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       KZPE71525
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF KAZAKSTAN
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES
AND ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION
Contact Person: MR. S. DAUKEEV,
MINISTER OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND
ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION
Tel: (3162) 5-62-42
Fax: (3162) 5-06-20
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 12, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 2002
Projected Board Date             September 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The vast rangelands of Central Asia, covering 260 million hectares, have
undergone dramatic changes in land use and patterns over the last 50 years
because of farming policies initiated during the Soviet era, which brought
large marginal lands under cereal cropping. The Virgin Lands scheme of
the 1950's, designed to extend cereal production to the steppe region of
Kazakhstan, resulted in large areas of degraded land due to unsustainable
cereal cultivation. Many of these areas have either been abandoned or are
producing grain yields that are neither financially viable nor
ecologically desirable. Poor or absent profit margins through lost
markets, falling product prices and curtailed subsidies have exacerbated
this trend. The low degree of income diversification, decreased farm
incomes and increased rural poverty are directly linked to land
degradation and decreased productivity in many of these cereal growing
areas.The abandoned lands have resulted in significant economic and
environmental losses to Central Asia. Biodiversity of the flora and fauna
has been reduced and a substantial amount of carbon has been lost to the
atmosphere which has global implications. In addition, the abandoned
land, subject to wind and water erosion, is lending itself to further
degradation and possible desertification. Animal inventories in these
rangelands have declined sharply, with the greatest decreases on land not
yet privatized. Because alternative agricultural opportunities are not
being realized, farm families are forced to move from these areas to urban
centers, putting additional stress on infrastructures of the population
centers, thereby further plunging the area, country, and region into
deeper poverty.Government Strategy: The government is in the process of
formulating a strategy for agricultural development, including grazing
lands. The strategy will aim to increase farm incomes in a sustainable
way, improve agricultural productivity from favorable areas (arable areas
with high rainfall), discourage cereal growing in marginal areas (degraded



lands or areas that are not profitable for cereal growing) and increase
productivity per unit of the national livestock population. The strategy
aims to seek alternate and more sustainable land uses to replace areas
where cereal production is not an economic proposition.In support of this
strategy, agricultural input and output prices are being liberalized, land
is being privatized and returned to previous owners and heirs, and the
government is targeting agricultural research, extension and training
systems to provide services that are more responsive to the needs of
private farmers. On-farm environmental management is an integral part of
the Government's overall development for the agricultural sector and the
government has accorded high priority to the conservation and restoration
of rangelands.
2. Objectives
The overall development objective is the conservation, rehabilitation and
sustainable utilization of natural resources in marginal cereal growing
areas in the Shetsky Rayon of Karaganda Oblast in Kazakhstan. In support
of this objective, the project, with the active participation of local
communities, will assist the Government of Kazakhstan to: (i) develop
alternative land uses, rehabilitate ecosystems for conservation of plant
and animal bio-diversity; (ii) quantify and monitor carbon sequestration;
(iii) build and promote capacity, public awareness and develop a
replication strategy so that project activities could be replicated in
other similar areas of Kazakhstan as well as Central Asia. These actions
are consistent with the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) and the National
Environmental Action Plan's (NEAP) overall strategy to reduce cereal
cultivation in marginal dry areas, promote sustainable agricultural
practices as well as the conservation and restoration of drylands. The
Project activities are directly linked to protecting and enhancing the
environment through reversing land degradation, improving carbon
sequestration, improving surface and ground water quantity and quality and
enhancing biodiversity. Thus, global benefits will result not only from
improving bio-diversity but also from sequestering atmospheric carbon
dioxide that could be potentially traded as carbon credits with
industrialized nations that are sources of C02 emissions.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The principal value added of GEF support for the Project comes from
providing additional funds to address development of sustainable drylands
ecosystems, biodiversity, carbon sequestration and natural resource
management. The project will help reduce the barriers to farmers adopting
environment-friendly agro-pastoral practices and allow the Government to
consider scaling-up the program. The GEF-funded project will also
leverage funds from donors by stimulating a program to coordinate
activities, increase coverage and generate a larger impact. In this
regard, the Global Mechanism (GM), the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), USDA-ARS, and USAID/GL-CRSP are participating in
project preparation and have indicated their interest to co-finance or
parallel finance the project. Conservation and restoration of the
degraded lands has the potential to turn these areas into sustainable
pastoral areas, with increased flora and fauna and significant sinks for
atmospheric C02.
4. Description
The project will be implemented in the northern zone of Shetsky Rayon, an
- 2-



area where acute rural poverty prevails and which is rated as a depressed
region with extreme soil, climatic, social, economic and technological
conditions that restrict the economic development opportunities. The
northern zone of the Shetsky Rayon meets the following selection criteria:
(i) two-thirds of the cereal areas are unprofitable for cereal production
(less than 600 kg/ha) or are abandoned; (ii) the soils and landscapes are
suitable for introduction of sustainable land use practices, e.g. sown
fodder/pastures/rangeland or rehabilitation of natural vegetation; (iii)
average annual rainfall is below 300 mm/year; (iv) the project zone is
representative of other areas to allow replicability of activities in and
outside the country.
The project will comprise the following components to be implemented over
five years: (1) development of alternative land uses, rehabilitation of
ecosystems for conservation of plant and animal bio-diversity; (2)
quantification of carbon sequestration; (3) capacity building, public
awareness and the development of a replication strategy; and (4) Project
Management Group.
Component 1 - Development of alternative land uses, rehabilitation of
ecosystems for conservation of plant and animal bio-diversity: The
project will specifically support: (a) replanting of abandoned wheat lands
with perennial grasses, (b) planting shelter belts with locally adapted
tree species; (c) on-farm trials and demonstrations of improved land
management practices in farmers' fields; and (d) marketing of milk and
meat.
The rehabilitation of abandoned lands and the planting of shelter belts to
improve moisture availability will reverse the decline in the natural
resource base, increase plant and animal bio-diversity, raise soil organic
matter, build capacity to sequester carbon and improve feed quality for
enhancing livestock productivity. With respect to assistance with
marketing of additional milk and meat, the project will try to achieve
this through providing incentives to the Balkhash-Sut Dairy, a private
sector company, to open milk collection centers and establish a small
livestock slaughtering facility in the project area.
Component 2 - Quantification of Carbon Sequestration:     This component
will integrate three interdependent activities including: (a) measurement
of C02 fluxes at fixed sites typical of the land cover types and
management interventions to document real-time, daily, and yearly carbon
sequestration, (b) establishment of a baseline of soil carbon information
that can be used to accurately document carbon stocks on lands subjected
to various management interventions, and (c) utilization of remote sensing
data and land cover information to extrapolate carbon sequestration across
the entire pilot project area. All activities will be undertaken with
capacity building at the core and to thereby establish a resource and
capability for Central Asia.
The carbon sequestration component would be implemented in collaboration
with the USAID-financed Global Livestock Collaborative Research Support
Project (GL/CRSP) and various laboratories of USDA-ARS. The US Geological
Survey, EROS Data Center, Sioux Falls, would provide technical assistance
and back-stopping support.
-3-



Component 3 - Capacity Building, Public Awareness and Replication
Strategy: The project would provide for capacity building and public
awareness activities at the local, national and regional level, for the
training of beneficiaries and participating institutions as well as for
the future replication of similar activities. At the Local Level,
activities would be conducted to increase local commitment of
beneficiaries and stakeholders to the proposed environment friendly
agricultural practices to be promoted through the project. At the
National Level, sensitization and mobilization efforts will be undertaken
to raise the awareness and commitment of the population at large through
mass media, including TV, radio and the press. At the Central Asia
Regional Level, a program of visits by relevant policy makers, scientists,
NGOs, and representatives of farmers organizations from the other
countries of Central Asia would be arranged to inform them of the
experiences in the Shetzky Rayon and their possible application in these
countries.
Replication Strategy. The project will demonstrate good practices for
sustainable dryland ecosystem management that may serve as a model and
demonstration for adoption in other areas. Project replication will be
promoted by on-farm trials and demonstrations in the project area,
training of beneficiaries and stakeholders and through a public awareness
program. It would also involve local institutions at the village level.
The government has agreed to facilitate the use of radio and television
and the development of a project web site in improving public awareness of
the results of the project.
Component 4 - Project Management Group: The project will provide for the
establishment of a Project Management Group (PMG) to be located at
Aksu-Ayuly, the capital of Shetsky Rayon. The PMG would be responsible
for co-ordination of implementation activities by the different local and
national agencies as well as for the monitoring and evaluation of all
project activities.    The project would also fund the costs of procurement
and financial management support services expected to be provided by the
existing Project Implementation Group under MNREP's Water Resources
Committee (CWR-PIU) in Almaty.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               4.35
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT FACILITY     7.0
Total Project Cost       14.35
6. Implementation
Project Steering Committee: The project will be implemented under the
aegis of the Project Steering Committee that has been set up (Ministerial
Order #334-P, dated August 25, 2000) comprising representatives from
various relevant ministries and national and local agencies. The Project
Steering Committee will be responsible for providing project oversight,
advice and assistance in resolving issues associated with project
implementation. MNREP will be designated by GOK as the line Ministry with
overall responsibility for project implementation. Project Management
-4 -



Group: MNREP will establish a Project Management Group (PMG) to be
located in Aksu-Ayuly, capital of Shetsky rayon. The PMG would comprise a
Project Manager, Public Awareness/Communication Specialist, Technical
(rangeland) Specialist, Accountant, Administrative Assistant and a
driver. The PMG would be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of
all project activities, as well as co-ordination of implementation
activities by the different local and national agencies. It is expected
that the Project Management Unit under MNREP's Water Resources Committee
in Almaty would provide support for procurement and financial management
matters as well as auditing and reporting. The PMG will form a strong
working partnership with the local administrative staff.
7. Sustainability
Institutional sustainability. The local government agencies in the Shetsky
Rayon and Karaganda Oblast are in full support of the project. To ensure
sustainability, the project seeks to strengthen the relevant policy and
regulatory framework and build capacity of national and local
institutions, including the MNREP and MOA, for project preparation and
implementation. Also, the PMG will be located in Aksu-Ayuly in Shetsky
Rayon, thus bringing project management to the local level. The twinning
of local institutions with specialized international institutions will
help in institutional sustainability.Social Sustainability. To ensure
social sustainability of the project, project preparation has emphasized
the early involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation and
implementation, including policy makers, farmers, farmers' associations
and NGOs. An in-depth socio-economic analysis is being undertaken under
which social issues will be linked to economic, technical and
environmental analyses which will lead to recommendations on project
design and guide targeted activities. The baseline survey will provide a
representative picture of the present situation and past experiences in
the pilot area. Results of the survey will be used to measure the impact
of project interventions which will be done by follow-up surveys during
the course of the project as well as upon its completion. The
participatory approach adopted by the project will ensure that project
activities are responsive to the needs of the farmers and end-users. This
will give beneficiaries and stakeholders a sense of ownership and
contribute to social sustainability. Financial Sustainability The project
would benefit the farmers by promoting cost-saving agro-pastoral
practices. A sense of ownership with cost sharing, compounded by the
positive impact on profitability will ensure that farmer adoption of these
practices will become self-sustaining.    If the project is successful in
enhancing the confidence of farmers and other stakeholders, it should not
only convince policy makers to increase government budgets for
rehabilitation of the degraded lands but also urge farmers to continue to
invest in these environment-friendly agro-pastoral practices. The public
awareness and capacity building efforts as well as the strengthening of
the relevant policy and regulatory framework will enable MNREP and MOA to
provide necessary financial support for maintaining and replicating such
programs in the future.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Key lessons learned from rural environmental and agricultural operations
in the regions and reflected in the Proposed Project include: ' the early
involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation, specifically
including local communities and influential decision makers is essential
- 5 -



in order to ensure ownership and successful project implementation;
working directly with the beneficiaries is essential for developing
ownership, which is a precondition for the sustainability of an operation-'
the benefits and objectives of the project should be made known to key
stakeholders through active participation as well as effective public
awareness and outreach programs; ' where consumptive use of natural
resources is an issue, (e.g., grazing, hunting, and use of agricultural
land), resource users must be substantively involved in the design of
sustainable resource management systems, and effective monitoring and
control mechanisms need to be developed and applied; ' decentralized
responsibility for financial and project management (e.g., as in the
WB/GEF and UNDP/GEF Projects) builds local ownership and sustainability of
project activities; ' applied research programs should be site-specific
and targeted to provide direct support for effective conservation
management;' dissemination of information about the benefits of improved
environmental management is critical to the widespread adoption of new
technologies and practices.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project's activities will promote
environment-friendly agro-pastoral practices and carbon sequestration
which will result in national and global environment net benefits. These
will accrue through revegetated drylands, increased biodiversity,
including protection of endangered species, increased carbon store in soil
organic matter with its implications for climate change as well as
improved water quality and quantity.To mitigate any possible environmental
issues, the project will undertake environmental assessments during
preparation. Farmers will be advised on measures to address any adverse
environmental impacts arising out of inappropriate management such as
selected over-grazing and the promotion of inappropriate crops and
practices. All civil works, if any, supported by the project will be
subject to review and approval by the local environmental authorities.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jitendra P. Srivastava
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-8975
Fax:   (202) 614-0698
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
- 6 -



not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 29, 2000.
-7 -



