                                         Documentof
                                     The World Bank



                                                            ReportNo: 25929-KZ




                             PROJECT APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                            ONA

                  PROPOSEDGLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITY GRANT

                           INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$5.27MILLION

                                           TO THE

                             GOVERNMENT OFKAZAKHSTAN

                                            FOR

                           DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT




                                         MAY 15,20113




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable DevelopmentUnit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective March2002)

                             CurrencyUnit = Tenge
                                   Tenge 1 = US$0.0065
                                       US$1 = Tenge 152

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 -- June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     /Animal Unit




            rameworkConvention onClimateChange




                of EnvironmentalProtection

                Environmental Action Plan
               emmentalOrganization
                 Programof the GEF




          edNations FrameworkConventionon Climate Change (http://unfccc.int)


b    ~ e g r e eCelsius



                            Vice President:     JohannesF. Linn
                 Country ManagerlDirector:      Dennis de Tray
                   Sector ManagerlDirector:     Marjory-Anne Bromhead
       Task Team LeaderlTaskManager:            Bulat Utkelov

                                           KAZAKHSTAN
                              DRYLANDSMANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




A. ProjectDevelopment Objective                                                       Page

   1. Project development objective                                                     2
   2. Keyperformance indicators                                                         2

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedbythe project      3
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
   3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   8

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                10
   2. Keypolicy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      13
   3. Benefits andtarget population                                                     13
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection                            15
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the 3ank andlor other development agencies      16
   3. Lessons leamed and reflectedinthe project design                                  17
   4. Indications ofborrower andrecipient commitment and ownership                      17
   5. Value added o f BankandGlobal support inthis project                              18

E.Summary ProjectAnalysis

   1. Economic                                                                          18
   2. Financial                                                                         19
   3, Technical                                                                         19
   4. Institutional                                                                     20
   5. Environmental                                                                     20
   6. Social                                                                            23
   7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                 24

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                    25
   2. Critical risks                                                                    27

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      27


G. Main Conditions

  1. EffectivenessCondition                                                              27
  2. Other                                                                               27

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           28

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             28


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          29
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     33
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          43
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis Summary                                         44
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     58
Annex 8: Documents inthe ProjectFile                                                     59
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            62
Annex 11:Incremental Cost Analysis                                                       64
Annex 12: Responseto Technical Comments from GEF Council                                 69
Annex 13: EnvironmentalAssessment and EnvironmentalManagement Plan                       89
Annex 14: Summary Descriptiono f ProjectArea                                             101




M"
Project Area - Shetsky rayon

                                             KAZAKHSTAN
                                 DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT
                                   ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                      Europe andCentral Asia Region
                                                 ECSSD

Date: May 15,2003                                   Team Leader: Bulat Utkelov
Sector ManagerlDirector: Marjory-Anne Bromhead       Sector(s): Generalagriculture, fishingandforestry sector
Country ManagerlDirector: Dennis deTray             (50%), Crops (30%), Animal production (20%)
Project ID: PO71525                                 Theme(s): Climate change (P), Landmanagement (P)
Focal Area: M


[ ]Loan        [ ]Credit   [XlGrant       [ ]Guarantee      [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5.27

BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                  2.40    I           0.00  I        2.40
3LOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                        3.47                1.80           5.27
JN GlobalMechanisms-UN Conventionto Combat                         0.00                0.10           0.10
3esertification
LOCAL FARMERORGANIZATIONS                                          1.93                0.00           1.93
rota[:                                                             7.80                1.90           9.70




Contact Person:
MS.AITKUL B.SAMAKOVA
MINISTER
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Tel: 7 (317-2) 59-19-50           Fax: 7 (3172) 591973             Email: n.a.
EstimatedDisbursements( Bank FY/US$m):




Project implementationperiod: 5 years
Expectedeffectivenessdate: 0913012003 Expectedclosing date: 0313112009

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project developmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective o fthe project is to demonstrateandpromote sustainablelanduses in
the marginal dryland ecosystemo fa pilot area inthe Shetsky rayon (a district inthe southern part
o f the Karaganda oblast - province). The proposed project is a pilot activity that will test the
environmental, social and economic viability o f shiftingfrom the current unsustainable
cereal-basedproductionsystem to the traditional livestock-based productionsystem.

Insupportofthisobjective, theproject-withactiveparticipation oflocalcommunities-will
assist the Government o fKazakhstan to: (i) sustainable landuse systems; (ii)
                                              develop                                     provide
initial service support to producer groups; (iii) improvenational capacity to quantify carbon
sequestration; and (iv) undertake a broad public awarenesscampaign and develop a strategy so
that project interventions could be replicated insimilar areas o fKazakhstan and other Central
Asian countries. Bypromoting sustainable landuse practices, the project emphasizes an
integrated ecosystemmanagement approachto achieving ecological, economic and social goals
that are expected to yieldbenefits at a local, regional and global level.

Project Global EnvironmentalObjectives
The project's global environmental objectives are: (i)   improvedknowledge on quantification and
monitoringo f carbon sequestrationunder different landuse types; (ii)     increasedcarbon
sequestrationfor climate changemitigation, (iii)     improvedbiodiversity; and (iv) control o fland
degradation.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Indicators for the achievement o f the project's development obiectives include, inter alia:
0    numberofhectaresundersustainableuse. Itwill beconsidered satisfactory ifat least70%of
     -following targets will be achieved:
          revegetationo fabandonedcereal landon 30,000 ha (10,000 hawith direct seeding;
          10,000 ha with seeding usingconservation tillage and 10,000 ha under acceleration of

     -    natural re-vegetation)
          improvedmanagemento f degradedpastures andrangelands (e.g. reducedgrazing
          pressures, increasedvegetative cover): 50,000 ha
     - provisiono f40 water points
0    successful demonstration o fthe alternative landuse systems, provingthe economic and social
     feasibility o flivestock-based production systems insimilar ecosystems;
0    increaseinnumbero f livestock (from 35,000 animal equivalent units to 70,000); and
0    improvement o fincome and living standards o fbeneficiary population.

Indicators for the global environment objectives include:
0    quantity o fcarbon sequestered insoil. Iti s estimated that at least 0.6 milliontons will be
     sequestered over 20 years, Although the five years o fproject implementation will not be able
     to cover the whole 20 year period o fcarbon sequestration, the project will utilize and
     improve existingmodels to allow a better estimation o ffuture carbon sequestrationas a result



                                                  - 2 -

    o fproject supported activities;
a newempiricaldataonquantity ofcarbon sequestratedinthe continental steppe ecosystem;
e biodiversityconservation;
    reducedsoil erosion; and
a reducedrecurrenceofgrasshopperinfestations.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistanceStrategy(CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber:21607 KZ Date of latestCAS discussion:January 16,2001
Protecting and enhancing the environment i s a major challenge identified inthe Kazakhstan's
CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS). The overarching objective o fthe CAS i s povertyreduction
and improvement o fliving standards. It identifies four main areas for investment insupport o f
this objective: (i)contributing to reforming the public sector, (ii)
                                                                   promotingbroad-basedprivate
sector growth andarresting m a lpoverty; (iii)  supporting the most vulnerable inthe population,
and (iv) protecting the environment, through among other measures, restoring marginallands.

A key focus ofthe Bank's assistancestrategyinagriculture andruraldevelopment (as partof
support for broad-basedprivate sector growth and ruralpoverty reduction) is to helpthe
Government inits efforts to addressthe issues o f increasing efficiency o fagricultural
productivity inthe farm sector and improving managemento fnatural resources.The CAS
includes support for the: (i) ongoing Agricultural Post-Privatization Assistance Project which i s
supporting the development o f financial services for rural enterprisesthrough commercial banks;
(ii)Irrigationand Drainage improvement, (iii) Protection Project; (iv) review o fthe
                                                Forest
livestock and fisheries sub-sector; and (v) the Agricultural Support Services Project, recently
re-namedAgricultural Competitiveness Project (ACP) that will promote productivity, quality and
export potential o fthe wheat and livestock sectors. The CAS highlightsthe proposed project to
pilot the restoration o fmarginal drylands where crop productionis not sustainable, andto revert
the landto sustainableuses such as pasturesand grassland. The project will addressthe
possibilities for recovery o fthe livestock industryon marginalcereal lands inthe central part o f
the country (Shetsky rayon) andwould generate specific knowledge neededto addressthe CAS
priorities o f improvement o f livestock sector managementand enhancing growth and
development inthe rural areas. The activities proposed underthe project respond to the CAS'S
objective o fenvironmental protectionas expectedproject outcomes include improved
biodiversity, increasedcarbon sequestration and control o flanddegradation.

la. Global Operational strategymrogram objective addressed by the project:
The proposed project is consistent with the GEF Operational Program (OP) 12, "Integrated
EcosystemsManagement" which i s aimed at catalyzing widespread adoption of comprehensive
ecosystem interventions that integrate ecological, economic, and social goals to achieve multiple
and cross-cutting local, national and global benefits. Project activities have been developed
within the overall framework o fan integrated ecosystemmanagement approachand facilitate
inter-sectoral andparticipatory approachesto natural resource managementplanningand
implementation. Itresponds to growing stakeholders' interests inadopting a holistic approach in
accordancewith national priorities. Investments inrehabilitationand improvedmanagemento f



                                                - 3 -

rangelandsand abandonedlands to restore indigenous vegetation would help inreversingland
degradation, improving carbon sequestration, enhancing biodiversityand improving agricultural
production.

The proposedproject brings synergy betweentwo focal areas within OP12: (i)       Climate Change;
and (ii)Biological Diversity, The project has implications for climate changemitigationas it
will promote carbon sequestrationinthe project areathrough increasingthe store ofcarbonin
soil andbiomass. The methodologylmodels that will be developed on carbon sequestrationunder
the project will allow predictions o fpotential carbon sequestrationunder differentlanduse
systems. These models could subsequentlybe applied to other similar areas within and outside
Kazakhstan. Second, through development o f sustainablelanduse systems and improving soil
andvegetative cover with native species, the project will protect and improve biodiversityinthe
Shetskyrayon.

The project also su~portsthe obiectives o fOP15 (Land Degradation) which emphasizes
sustainablelandmanagement. The project integrates conservation and sustainableuse o fland
resources into development o f drylands, assistspeople and communities to protect and
sustainably managenon-protected and inhabited drylands andbuildsinstitutionalcapacity for
addressinglanddegradation. The expectedproject outcomes are consistent with the expected
outcomes outlined inOP 12 and 15, viz. (i)   creation o f an enabling environment for
implementation andreplication o fproposedproject interventions; (ii)    institutional strengthening;
and (iii)investments. Byemphasizing anintegratedmulti-focal approach, the project addresses
many o fthe goals o fglobal environmental conventions, includingUnitedNations Convention to
Combat Desertification (UN-CCD), UnitedNations FrameworkConvention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) andthe Convention on BiologicalDiversity (CBD).

The Project will provide anopportunity for the GEFto be a catalyst to bringabout improved land
andnatural resourcemanagement initiatives. The GEF support will reduce costs andbarriers to
farmers adopting improved and sustainableagricultural practices. Itwill helpdevelop
mechanisms to move from demonstration level activities to operational projects that restore and
improvepastureand grazing landand increase opportunities for rural populations.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1Sector Issues
Environment. Kazakhstan inherited some o fthe greatest environmental problems o fthe
post-Soviet republics. The total economic damage from non-rational use o fnatural resourcesand
environmental pollution i s estimated at 20-30% o fthe GDP (NEAP, 1999). The dryingAral Sea
and the Semipalatinsk nuclear testing sites are two o fthe most notorious environmental disasters.

The VirginLand Schemealso had significant negative environmental consequences. Under this
scheme, duringthe 1950's and 1960'~~   cereal cultivation was extended to the southem steppe
region o f Kazakhstan, with the objective o fincreasing wheat productioninthe Former Soviet
Union. Approximately 35 million hectareswere putunder cereal cultivation, and an estimated
1.5 millionpeople were relocated. Akmola (now Astana, the capital o fthe country) was renamed
Tzelinograd (the "City o fVirginLand" inRussian language). The Shorthandy researchcenter



                                                - 4 -

near Tzelinograd developed special technologies to allow cereal cultivationinthe steppes where
precipitationis limitedand wind speeds are particularly strong. The two maintechnologies
included conservation tillage and snow harvesting, targetedto reduce wind erosion o f snow in
order to increase soil moisture.

Inorder to achieve the overlyambitious pre-set targets, cerealcultivationwas excessively
extended to the south, ineco-regions where suchcrop-basedproduction systems are not
sustainable. Consequently, unsustainableagricultural practices have ledto varying degreeso f
landdegradationincentral Kazakhstan. Karagandaoblast, where the pilotproject areais located,
has suffered the highest lossesinsoil fertility (measured interms o fhumus lossesas documented
inthe following graph).


                       Kazakhstan HumusLossesin the first 30 emof
                                    -
                                  Arable Soil during 1960-1995


                    Karaganda

                       Almaty
                                                                                    I

                      Kostanaj                                                      ,,,,,
              North-Kazakhstan                                                      I
                                                                                    I


                       AMobe

              South-Kazakhstan

               East-Kazakhstan                                                      ,
                                                                                    I

              West-Kazakhstan                                                       I
                                                                                    I

                       Akmola                                                       I


                      Pavlodar                                                      ,,,
                                                                                    I



                      Zharbyl
                                                                                  1
                             0%      5%       10%      15%      20%      25%      30%



Some areas are under the threat o f desertification which has critical implications both at a global
andnational level, e.g., climate changeandnational food security. Degradation o fthe natural
resourcebasehas hada knock-on effect: reducedbiodiversity, endangeredspecies, reduced
carbon sequestration, poor water quality and supply. Although some o fthe abandonedmarginal
cereal-growing lands have undergone natural regeneration, most are dominated byweeds and
subject to wind erosion and frequent fires. Soil erosion and fires reduce carbon stocks on the
landandresult ina subsequentnet releaseofC02 into the atmosphere, considered to be amajor
factor inglobal climate change. The abandonedlands are also prime breeding grounds for
locusts which further degrade the lands andcan damage croplands inother areas.

Agriculture inKazakhstan has substantial potential, with total agricultural landin2001
approximating 90 millionha o fwhich 21million are arable (1.5 hdcapita). Mainagricultural



                                                 - 5 -

products include wheat, barley, rice, and livestock products. However, in 1991, agricultural land
was estimated at 195 millionha and over the past decade, the loss o f over 100million ha o f
agricultural landshas hada significant impact onnational food security, lost markets and farm
andruralhouseholdincomes. Sinceindependence, use ofarablelandshas decreasedby37%;
pastures andrangelandsby 60%. Nonetheless agriculture continues to be an important sector
with 44% o fthe country's population living inrural areas. The sector i s apotentially significant
source o fnon-oil growth, accounting for 9% o fthe country's GDP.

Since independence, the Government has launched successivereforms inthe agricultural sector -
price andtrade reform, privatizationo f f m s and agribusinesses, and the initial creation o fland
markets basedon fully tradeablelong-term leases(instead o f full private property), These
reforms are aimed at haltinguneconomical farming, improvingproductivity and corporate
governance on the remaining farms. All too often, however, privatizationwas nontransparent
and ledto poor corporate governance, decliningproductivity, andreducedaccess to landby
producers. Duringthe past decade, the Government has imposed severe financial constraints on
farmenterprisesbyreducing subsidiesand eliminating directed credit programs. Ithas also
supported financial restructuring for nonviable farms and the take over o fbadly managed, though
potentiallyviable, farms bycreditors or strategic investors. The results o fthese initiatives are
encouraging.

However, a significant reform agendaremains, with one o fthe greatest challenges beinginthe
marginal drylands. Most of these lands (within the stepperegionofthe country) were productive
grasslands and pasturesbefore the Virgin Lands Scheme. The crop-basedproduction system
introduced bythis scheme becameincreasingly unprofitable with the introductiono f
marked-basedprices after independence. Giventhe current transition to a market economy, with
strong competition inthe world wheat market, there i s a growing concern about the efficiency o f
landresource use, and increasing imbalance between rural andurban livingstandards, especially
indryregions where risky, weather-dependentcerealproductionusedto providethe mainsource
o f income. The low degree o fincome diversification, decreasedfarm incomes and increased
ruralpoverty are directly linkedto landdegradation and decreasedproductivity inmany o fthese
cereal growing areas. Currently, alternate agricultural opportunities are not beingrealized as the
newly formed agricultural enterpriseslack adequate funds and machinery, growth o fmarkets
(demand) is slow, new faimers lack appropriate entrepreneurial skills, knowledge ai;d
information to meet the changing farming needs, and there is resistanceto change. To address
these issues, the Government in2003, has initiateda three-year program o f intensive support to
the rural areas,

Livestock. Most o fKazakhstan consists o fdry steppe grasslands, traditionally used for livestock
production that around 1990 representedsome 60% o fagricultural output. The livestock sector
has, however, experienced drastic changesduringthe economic transitiono fthe last decadewith
the loss o f the potential Soviet market, Duringthat time the sector went through a substantial
contraction innumbers, especially after 1995 when new private farms as well as rural farm
workers destroyed animal stock to pay for debts and farm inputs. Countryherd decreasedfrom
35 millionheadsto 10million. The outcome to date is a sector with a current animal inventory
that is lower than it was at the beginningo fthe 20th century. Iti s estimated that today



                                                - 6 -

Kazakhstanhas 184.2 millionhectares o fpasture land; however, only one-fifth (approximately
30 millionha) i s beingutilizedo fwhich 87% is concentratedaround village communities. At
the same time, urban demand (especially for meat) i s increasing, inpart fueled by increasing
incomes linkedto the oil boom. The livestock sector canbe regardedas one o fthe drivingforces
inruralrevivalinthis countrydominated bygrasslandswiththe largest amount ofpasturesand
rangelandsper animal unit inthe world. The sector also fulfills a social role inproviding some
security and income to people that remained inthe rural areas after the break up o fthe
collectives.

2.2 GovernmentStrategy
After independenceKazakhstanstated its commitment to environmental protectionand
sustainabledevelopment. Iti s a signatory to most significant environmental conventions and is
an active participant inseveral fora on environmental protection. The longterm development
strategy o fthe country - Kazakhstan2030 -- reflects this commitment. Several actions have been
undertakento beginthe implementation o fthe strategy, including strengthenedenvironmental
management(with continuous evolution o fthe Ministryo f Environmental Protection),
legislation, and economic instruments, such as introductiono f payments for usingnatural
resources. On-farm environmental management i s an integral part o fthe Government's overall
development strategy, which is aimed at creating a sustainableenabling environment to fully
realize the potential o fthe agricultural sector. The 1999National EnvironmentalAction Plan
(NEAP) identifies arable lands andpasture conservation as apriority areao fintervention. This
priorityreflects Governmental commitment to combat desertification and is governed inpart by
the UnitedNations' Convention to Combat Desertification (UN-CCD). Kazakhstan hasnot
ratifiedthe Kyoto protocol yet as the government i s facing the same difficulty as Russia in
deciding whether to adopt the status o f an industrialized country or a developing country (as a
transition economy, Kazakhstan has some parallelcharacteristics ofboth groups). Inaddition,
the NEAP also reflects the government's commitment to the UNFramework Convention on
Climate Change as well as the UNConvention on Biological Diversity.

Rural development has been declared a key country priority for the next three years, Towards
this, several steps have already beentaken, including, inter alia:

i. Budget allocation. The approvcd 2003 Republican Budget increased budget allocations ior
     rural development for each o f the following four sectors (a) agriculture ($65 mn), (b) rural
     education ($23 mn), (c) rural health ($19 mln), and (d) rural water supply ($2 mln).
ii.~n~~~tuReform.nThelMinistryofEnvironmentalProtectionandNaturalResources
                    ~ ~ o    a
     managementwas reorganizedto enhance its focus on the protectionofthe environment and
     re-named Ministry o f Environmental Protection. Responsibility for natural resources
     managementwas transferred to the Ministryo fAgriculture (MOA). As a result, the water,
     forestry, and fisheries committees was broughtunder the responsibilityo fthe MOA.
iii. Legalfiumework. The Government hasdraftedthree legalproposals with important
     implications for rural areas: (a) the landcode; (b) the micro-finance law and law on credit
     partnerships, and (c) the forest code. The landcode proposesto create full privateproperty
     for agricultural land, which is o fparamount importance for agricultural development. Though
    the details o fthe landcode proposal couldhave benefited from broader discussions with civil



                                                  - 7 -

    society and interested groups, it nonethelessprovides evidence o fthe current administration's
    commitment to addressingagricultural and rural issues.

The Government's 2003-2005 agricultural development plan aims to focus on food security
"through the establishment o fan efficient agro-industrial complex with competitive products".
The government is formulating a strategy for agricultural development byfacilitating access to
financial services andprovidetemporary protection and subsidies. Subsidies are targetedto
discourage cereal growing inmarginal areas (degraded lands or areas that are not profitable for
cereal growing), improveagricultural productivity infavorable areas (arable areas with high
rainfall), increasethe national livestockpopulation, and increasefarm incomes ina sustainable
way. Insupport o fthis strategy, the Government and the World Bank arejointly preparingan
Agricultural Competitiveness Project and Livestock Sector Studywith the objective o f
identifylnga sustainabledevelopment strategyandsuitable government interventions.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3. 1 Sector IssuesAddressed by theProject
The Project would demonstrateoptions for mainstreaming environmental issuesinthe ongoing
and proposedreforms o fthe agricultural sector and would address the following keyissues that
are specific to the Kazakhsteppe as well as to large areas o f Central Asia:

Development of sustainableland use inmarginal areas. The development o f alternateland
uses onthe marginal cereal growing areas that are economically feasible, socially acceptable and
ecologically sustainablei s a keyactivity underthe project. The baseline socioeconomic survey
undertakenprior to start o fproject preparation, confirmed the unprofitable nature o fwheat
productioninthe project areawithyields o fabout 500-600 kglha. Italso confirmedthe
importance o flivestock as a source o fhousehold income with 98% o fthe households owning
cattle, and over 60% sheep andhorses. Milk,cattlemeat and hides are products most commonly
sold.

The projectwill promote the development andexpansion o flivestock-based production systems
by, inter alia, revegetatingthe abandonedcereal landswithperennial grasses andimprovingthe
existing degradedpastures. Currently, the livestock sectorinthe Shetsky rayoni s characterized
by: a shortage ofgood quality winterfeed, pooror brokenirrigationsystems limitingthe
productiono f supplementary feeds, lack o fwater points inoutlying areas for summer grazing
which leadsto overgrazing near the villages and homesteads, overall lack o f livestock
managementexpertise; lack o f supporting services (e.g. veterinary serviceslartificial
inseminatiodseeds), poor markets for livestock products (products are ofien sold locally, because
o ftransport problems or lack o fmarket information) and inadequate financelcredit. It should be
pointedout that after an initial drop inlivestock numbers, a limitedrecuperation startedinthe
Shetsky region. However, inthe socioeconomic survey undertaken in2001andinsubsequent
consultative meetings, farmers indicated that lack ofwinterfeeds and markets were primary
problems. The project will address these issues.

Reverse EnvironmentalDegradation and Loss of Biodiversitv. Inappropriate landuse (cereal
growing) has ledto landdegradation and these lands are increasingly vulnerable to wind and



                                                - 8 -

water erosion, frequent fires, locust infestation and loss o fbio-diversity. The steppe ecosystem
o fKazakhstan is unique and the fields, fallow land, rangeland, gullies and ravines inthe project
area serve as storage o fthe gene pool o fthe native flora and fauna. Some plant and animal
species, such as the red-breastedgoose, golden eagle, manu1(palla's cat), northern fern, thin
poppy, etc. have become extinct over the years and many others are severely endangered. By
improving the managemento fpastures and rangelands, the project seeks to restore andprotect
the natural habitats o fmany endangered species. Also, byproviding training inrangeland and
livestock management, as well as promotingpublic awareness, the project will broaden
understanding o f landdegradation andrelated biodiversityissues among the project beneficiaries
which will help inprotecting and conserving local flora and fauna. The endangered species
indicated inthe RedBook o f Kazakhstanthat will beprotectedunder the project include:




Diversifv income-earning;opportunities to raise familv incomesand alleviate poverty. This
i s a primary concern o fthe govemment. Without suitable interventions, there will be an
increaseddisparitybetweenurban and rural areas and inconsequencea drift o fpeople, especially


                                                 - 9 -

   the young, to towns. The project site is characterizedas a regiono fpoverty where poor
   economic and social conditions restrict development opportunities. The project will work with
   other agencies (national andlocal) to raise incomes from the livestock-based production system
   envisagedunderthe project through marketing o flivestock products andwork on other
   opportunities for diversifjmg income sources, such as the possibility o f developing
   medicinallherbal plants and their products.

   3.2     Strategic Choices
   Two main strategic choices were made duringproject preparation. Thefirst choice was the
   decision o f addressinglanddegradation inmarginal dryland from among the many
   environmental problems facing Kazakhstan. This decision was basedonthe considerable World
   Bank portfolio o f activities inthe agricultural sector which has generateduseful experience on
   the linkages betweenagriculture and natural resourcemanagement. Specifically irrigation
   rehabilitation projects have proventhat one o fthe best ways to addressthe environmental
  problems o fthe Aral Sea i s to improve the efficiency o f existingirrigationsystems, establishing a
   linkbetweenthe objectives ofenvironmental protection andtangible benefits for key
   stakeholders. Kazakhstan does not have any agricultural andor environmental activity targeted to
   the drylandcereal-growing areas which, ifcontinued to be neglected, would leadto a further
   degradation o fthe already marginalized lands. Thus the proposed project made the strategic
   choice o fdesigninga multi-focal, cross-sectoralproject whose interventions would not only have
   a positive impact inthe pilot area, but couldalso be replicated nationally and globally insimilar
   drylandecosystems.

   The second strategic choice was to proposearelatively large pilot, with atotal investmento f$9.7
   millionwith a $5.3 million GEF financing, instead o fa smaller carbon monitoringactivity. This
   decision was basedon the fact that a small carbon monitoring activity could not have tested the
   socio-economic feasibility o f shiftingfrom crop-basedproduction system to the traditional
   livestock production system. Experience has demonstrated that a few innovative farmers would
   easily accept such a shift; however, the real challenge lays inhaving a large share o f farmers in
   one district adopting the proposed shift so that the viability o f such a shift couldbeproven on a
   scale large enoughto demonstrate its potential o freplicability.

   C. PrJjectDescription Summary
   1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for adetailedcost
  breakdown):
See Annex 14 for a description o fthe project area and criteria for selection.

Component 1: Development of Sustainable Land Use Systems(US$5.5 million)
The following activities will be supported underthis component:

(i)
  Revegetation o f Abandoned Cereal Lands: This will include: (a) Direct Seedingo fperennial
 grasses; (b) Seedingo fperennial grasses using conservation tillage; and (c) Assisting farmers with
 acceleration o fnatural revegetation. The project will revegetate about 30,000 hectareso f
 abandonedcereal lands. The projectwill finance up to 75% o f the total cost o festablishing new
 grasslands.


                                                    -10-

(ii) Management o fDea-adedPasturesand Rangelands. The project would support a programto
   improvethe vegetative cover andmanagemento fdegradedpastures and rangelandsinthe project
   area. The activities envisagedunderthis component are designedto increaseproductivity o f
   degradedpastures and reduce grazing pressuresaround villages byrestoring 40 watering points
   that will enable cattle to be summeredon more distant pastures. This sub-component will also
   undertake an analysis o fbiodiversitylosses inthe proiect areaandthe impact o f increased
   vegetative cover on the biodiversity o fthe region. Specifically, the project will: (i)
                                                                                         underake an
   assessment o fthe current biodiversityinthe Shetsky rayon; (ii)    develop maps o f soil and
   vegetation cover to develop landcover classification; (iii)  undertake biodiversitymonitoring at
   selectedkey sites; (iv) define the physiological and ecological parameterso f vegetation for carbon
   sequestration; and (v) preparerecommendations for biodiversitypreservation. This will include
   field surveys at seventeenmonitoring sites o fthe project area, analysesofresults o fbiodiversity
  monitoring at the key sites with historical data, analysis o freasonsfor biodiversity loss,
   development o f actions to preservebiodiversity for specific sites o fthe project area and creation o f
   maps with types o fbiodiversity recommended for preservation inthe problem sites.

(iii)Validation and demonstration o fnew technologies The projectwill support a program o ftrials
   anddemonstrations within four demonstration zones that are representative o fthe agro-climatic
   conditions within the project territory. The objective i s to demonstrate the various methods
   available to plant perennial and annual grasses at the lowest cost with the best return on forage.

Component 2: Initial Service Support to Producer Groups (US$1.3 million)
This component will provide grant financing to assist farmers inthe project area to "get started" and
transition to improvedpractices as proposedunderthe project. Inthe longrunthis will likely result
inincome generation, thereby ensuringsustainability ofthesepractices which largelyhaveinherent
global benefits.

The component will provide assistanceto producer groups for marketinglivestock andagricultural
products through establishing village milk collections centers, a regional agricultural market inAksu
-Ayuli (main town o f Shetskyrayon) for meat, wool, hides, hay andother similarproducts produced
inthe Shetskyregion, andlocalproducerpartnerships to ownandoperatethe milkcollectioncenters
and agriculture marlrct. These activities will involve partnerships and close cohboration with
private sector organizations inKaraganda oblast andhelp inincreasing localorganizational capacity;
creating newjobs inthe villages, especially among women; facilitating access to markets for the
increasedmilkand meat productionexpected from the availability o fbetter feed and improved
livestock management; and raising farm incomes. The component will support Livestock and Crop
Husbandry Advisory Services for Farmers to assist farmers to introduce best livestock husbandryand
fodder cropping practices.

Component 3: Quantification of Carbon Sequestration (US$1.3 million)
This i s a target researchactivity; it i s designedto provide assistancefor improving knowledge and
skills to quantifyand monitor carbon sequestration so as to enable the government to meet its
obligations underthe UnitedNations Convention on Climate Change. The researcheffort would be
instrumental inidentifylngthe landuse managementunder which sequestration o fcarbon would be



                                                      - 17 -

maximum. A quantification o fcarbon heldinsoil andvegetation, together with monitoringo f carbon
sequestrationmagnitudes and dynamics inthe project area, will form abasis for providing reliable
estimates o fcarbon sequestrationpotential inother parts o fKazakhstanand Central Asia. Thus, this
project canplay apivotal role, not only inCentral Asia, but globally, inthe development and
implementation o fan effective carbon monitoringandmanagementsystem.

The component will provide empirical data on carbon actually stored insoil andsoil biomass as a
result o fproject-supported activities. Since the five years covered bythe project will not be able to
provideempirical data for the whole 20 year period o fcarbon sequestration, the project will utilize
and improve existingmodels (such as the CENTURY model, which hasbeen used inthe Sahel as an
example o farid land) to allow abetter estimation o ffuture carbon sequestrationas a result o fproject
supported activities.

The component will also contribute to buildnationalcapacity to generate, ona sustainablebasis,
site-specific data on carbon stocks (insoil and vegetation) andproceed from these datato measurable
impacts onthe restorationo fnatural resources.

Component4: PublicAwareness and ReplicationStrategy(US$0.9 million)
The component would carry out a public awareness and capacity buildingactivities at the local
(Shetsky Rayon), national andregional leveland develop a replication strategy so that project
interventions couldbe replicated inother similar dryland ecosystems, within and outside
Kazakhstan. The project inall likelihood should be able to demonstratemeasurable, tangible
benefits within the first two-three years o fproject implementation which would prove instrumental
inspurringthe government intoconsidering replicationo fproject interventions inother similar
agro-climatic rayons o fKazakhstan.

Reulication Stratem: The project would provide for the organization o fregional workshops, field
trips, training, publication ininternational agriculture and environmentaljournals and other activities
to promote replicationo fproject activities inother Central Asian countries. The pilot activity will
aimto serve as a model to be replicated inthese countries, which will helpcontribute to a reduction
indesertification andincreasedcarbonsequestration.The organization ofthese international events
couldbe part o fthe assignment o f a PlUMediaAgency contracted for the purpose.

Component5: ProjectManagementUnit(USS0.7 million)
The existingProject Preparation Unitwill evolve into a Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU
will handleprocurement, all financial matters relatingto disbursements, maintenance o fproject
accounts and financial monitoring, as well as the monitoring and evaluation o f all project activities.
The PMUwill have overall responsibility for project implementation andwill prepare regular
monitoring reports. The Project Manager will report to the Chairman o fthe Project Steering
Committee, i.e. the Vice-Minister, MEP.




                                                     - 12-

                                                       Indicative                     Yo of
             Component                                   Cost5      % O f
                                                        (US$M)     Total    (UStM)  financing
     1. Developmentof SustainableLandUse Systems           5.53       57.0   0.00        0.0   2.77    52.6
    2. Initial Service Support to Producer Groups          1.28       13.2   0.00        0.0   0.31     5.9

    3. Quantification of Carbon Sequestration              1.31       13.5   0.00        0.0   0.90    17.1
                                                                                   1
    4. Public Awareness and Replication Strategy           0.85         8.8       I      0.0   0.72    13.7

    5. Project Management Unit                             0.73         7.5                    0.57    10.8
                                    Total ProjectCosts     9.70     100.0                      5.27   100.0
                            Total FinancingRequired        9.70     100.0    0.00  1     0.0   5.27   100.0



    2. Key policy and institutional reformssupported by the project:
Pilot activities would lay the groundwork for promotion o f policy reforms by the Government of
Kazakhstan with regard to a strategy to rehabilitate abandoned or marginal drylands.               Project
interventions would support the Government to develop a Code for Good Agro-pastoral Practices,
including the implementation o f land use management plans. Such a code could be a model for
dryland areas. The project would also contribute to strengthen national policy and regulatory
capacity to meet its various national and international obligations and to correctly asses implications
o fthe Kyoto Protocol ratification.

    3. Benefits and target population:
Theproposedproject would bethe first instancewhere the Government o fKazakhstan is
mainstreaming environmental considerations inago-pastoral practices. The synergy o f such an
approachwill bringabout greater benefits vis-a-vis independent agricultural and environmental
projects.

Locally and nationally there will be benefits: (i) the farm level, resultingfrom the sustainableand
                                                      at
fuller use o fpastures, rangelands and winter feed areas; (ii) improvedmarketingo ffarm
                                                                  from
products; (iii)  through the establishment o flocal industries basedonrenewable natural resources;
(iv) capacity buildingat the administrative level as well as o fgovernment andresearchinstitutes, etc;
(v) increasedproductivitythrough improvedago-pastoral practices; and (vi) better maintenanceof
productive ecosystems, natural habitats andthe protectiono f endangeredspecies.

Intemationally: benefits will accruethrough: (i) empiricaldata on which to baseestimations o f
                                                      new
carbon sequestration; (ii)    increasedbiodiversity; and(iii) sequestration inthe rangelandsand
                                                                 carbon
former arable areas.




                                                       - 73-

Replicabilitv. The proposedproject i s a pilot activity that will demonstrate alternate sustainableland
use systems ina select dryland ecosystemo fKazakhstan. Lessons learnt from this initiative couldbe
applied to other parts o fthe country as well as countries o fCentral Asia regionthat have similar
agro-climatic conditions. Thus the projectwould have a larger geographical impact. Also, the
quantificationo fcarbon sequestrationestimation underdifferentlanduse systemswill be basedon
empirical data which has the potential for improving existing models for estimation o fcarbon
sequestration. This will increasethe potential to trade carbon credits. The Govemment o f
Kazakhstan has not ratified the Kyoto protocol yet but has expressedits interest insuchratification
and i s working towards it. Once such ratification will be completed, carbon sequestrationin
grasslands will become eligible for carbon trading and carbon offset (no carbon trading is however
proposedunderthe project).

TargetPopuZation. The project site i s located ina marginal dryland areawhere acute poverty
prevails (see Annex 12for more details on project area.) The area is sparselypopulated with an
estimated 19,500 people inthe eleven sub-districts inthe project area. The averagehousehold size is
4.2 persons and over 95% obtain a living from farming. These private farmers andruralhouseholds
are the direct primarybeneficiaries o fthe proposedproject. However, since the project is a pilot
activity with opportunities for muchwider application bothnationallyand regionally, the ultimate
beneficiaries o fthe project will not berestricted to the Shetsky rayonalone.

    4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
The Ministryo fEnvironmental Protection (MEP) will be responsible for project implementation.
Giventhe important links with agricultural activities, the Ministryo fAgriculture will also be
involved inproject implementation and supervision. MEP will establish a Project Management Unit
(PMU), comprising a Project Manager, Financial Managemenuprocurement Specialist and
Administrative Assistant. The existingProject Preparation Unitwill evolve into the PMU andwill
continue to be located inAstana. Inaddition, a financial management specialist andtwo technical
specialists will be basedinthe town o fAksu-Ayuli, inthe ShetskyRayon. Duringthe summer, the
Project Manager will move to Aksu-Ayuliand other administrative staff will assist inthe
Aksu-Ayulioffice as required.Thiswould also help form a strong working partnership withthe local
administrative staff, local farmers andother stakeholders.

Governance. The implementational arrangementsagreedupondemonstrate the project's emphasis
on decentralized responsibility for project management. The project emphasizescapacity buildingo f
agenciesat the local levelinvolved inproject implementation as well as farmers which will help not
only to buildlocal ownership, but also ensuretransparency as well as sustainability o fproject
activities. The project design incoprorates lessonslearned to create the best conditions for a good
governance o f grants awardedto farmers and other beneficiaries under the project. Through the
implementation o fcompetitive grant programs inmany countries o fthe region, proceduresfor
procurement, disbursement and financial managemento f small-value grants havebeen strengthened
and laid out inseveraltraining manuals as "good practices" by specialists at the World Bank.
Relevantstaff inthe PMU, as well as local institutions involvedwithproject implementation, will be
trained insuch "good practices'' to ensure that there i s a good governance mechanism inplace to
oversee grant implementation. Regular monitoringprovided for underthe project will also be
instrumental inensuringgood governance o f grantsunder the project.


                                                    - 14-

The following implementation arrangementshave beenimplemented andlor agreedto assurethe
most adequateproject implementation,
Proiect Steering Committee (PSCI. The PSC has already been establishedbythe MEP & M O A and
   will beresponsible for providingproject oversight, advice andassistanceinresolving issues
   associatedwith project implementation. The Committee will consist o feleven members,
   including, the Vice Minister MEP (Chairperson); Vice Minister, M O A (Co-chairperson); Head o f
   Department o fthe Ministry o fEconomy and BudgetPlanning; Director o f Ecological Policy
   Department o fthe MEP; Head o fDivisiono fthe LandAgency; DeputyAkim o fKaraganda
   oblast; Akim o f Shetski rayon; Chairperson o f Oblast Association o fDairy Enterprises; Director
   General o fBalkhash Sut Dairy Plant; and Chairperson o fthe Farmer Association o fthe Shetski
   Rayon. The PMUHeadwill act as ex-officio secretary.
Proiect Technical Committee (PTC). A Project Technical Committee will be establishedbythe
   government o f Shetsky rayon, comprising the head o fFanners' Association (Chairperson); Project
   Manager; DeputyAkim o f Shetsky Rayon; head o fTerritorial Agency o fMOA; a female Fanner;
   andthe two PMUtechnical specialists mentioned above. The PTC will provide guidance, advice
   and overview onthe technical aspects of the project. (See Organizational chart inAnnex 2)
Proiect Ma~a~ementUnit (PMU).The PMUwill handle procurement, all financial matters relating
   to disbursements, maintenance o fproject accounts and financial monitoring, as well as the
   monitoringand evaluation o fall project activities. It will coordinate the implementation o f
   activities bythe different local and national agencies, includingthe field agencieso f M O A and
   MEP. The Project Manager will report to the Chairman o fthe Project Steering Committee, i.e. the
   Vice-Minister o f MEP.

Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).A well-designedmonitoring andevaluation system i s
critical for ensuringthe project's timely and successful implementation, and enhancing its impact by
a systematic analysis o flessons leamed and their effective dissemination. Project monitoringwould
be carried out bythe PMU. Inaddition, and annual evaluation will be carried out by an independent
firm, selectedbythe PMUinaprocesssimilar to the one which was usedto preparethe social
baseline o fthe project. Project M&Ewill bebasedonthe results o f suchbaseline survey, as well as
Oii the agreedtarget (see Annex 1). The independent consulxt will presents the results o f its annual
evaluation directlyto the Project Steering Committee, without previous approval o f its report.

     D. Project Rationale
     1. Projectalternatives consideredandreasons for rejection:
The alternatives considered were: (i)   no intervention; (ii)support an increaseincrop production
through the rehabilitation o f irrigation facilities; and (iii)
                                                             promotetree planting.

First, the option o fno intervention, or selfregenerationof the fallow land. Scientists and experts
from the Institutes of LandUse Classification Soils, Remote Sensing andModeling, andBotanyhave
estimated that natural revegetation o fabandonedlandcouldtake over 50 years andthe initial natural
vegetation would not serve as suitable animalpasture. The existing institutions and local population



                                                       -15-

are insufficiently equippedto address issues o fmarginalized drylandsand itwas deemed appropriate
to initiate this project and stem hrther landdegradation and its accompanying adverseimpacts.
However, the project will allow for natural regeneration o fthe abandonedcereal growing lands
where fifty percent o fthe area is already undernatural vegetative cover; this will provide a
benchmark againstwhich project impacts canbemeasured.

Second, the option o frehabilitationof irrigation facilities. This option was rejected becausethe
World Bank i s already working with the Government o f Kazakhstan inrehabilitating irrigation
facilities through the Irrigationand Drainage Improvement Project, with one irrigationscheme
located inthe same Schetzy Rayon.

Third, the optionofpromoting tree planting.This is a good alternative to providecarbon
sequestration-- and infact the Government requestedsupport o fthe World Bank indesigninga
forestry project. However forestry is not a suitable alternative inthe marginal landso fcentral
Kazakhstan, whose ecosystemis not suitable for forest development.

    2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies (completed,
    ongoing andplanned).Table 2 lists major relatedprojects by all development agenciesthat are
    completed, ongoing or planned.
                                                                                          iewision
                                                                                          atings

    I Bank-financed                                                                       projectsonly)
                                                                           Implementation  Development
                                                                            Progress (IP) Objective (DO)

      Sustainable Agriculture andNatural   Agricultural Post-privatization       S              S
     ResourcesManagement                   Project (APPAP APL-1)
                                           IrrigationandDrainage                 S              S
                                           Improvement(IDIP)
                                           Northern Aral Sea and Syr             S              S
                                           Darya
                                           NuraRiver Cleanup (under
                                           preparation)
                                           Agricultural Competitiveness
                                           ForestryProtection and
                                           Reforestation
     Otherdevelopment agencies
     WBlGEF                                Biodiversity Conservation(
     Trans-boundary biodiversity           Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Rep. &
                                           Uzbekistan)
     UNDPlGEF                              -Integratedconservationof
                                           priority globally significant
                                           migratory bird wetland habitat;
                                           - Renewableenergyuse for
                                           potablewater supply;
                                           -Programfor the
                                           implementation ofthe
                                           1998-2000 strategic plan:


                                                    - 16-

                                            ecology and naturalresources
                                            - Assistance   to the GOK inthe
                                            development o f a strategy to
                                            implement the conservation o f
                                            biodiversity
                                            -- Ago-biodiversity   o fAlatau
                                               In-situ preservationo f
                                            mountain ago-biodiversity in
                                            Kazakhstan
                                            - Revised   strategy and action
                                            planto combat desertification
                                            o f the Republic o f Kazakhstan
  [SAID GL-CRSP                             Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan,
                                            Kazakhstan, Tajikistanand
                                            Kyrgyzstan: Livestock
                                            development andrangeland
                                            conservation tools for Central
                                            Asia.
  JK:DFID                                   Central Asia: Impacts of
                                            privatization onrange and
                                            livestock management in
                                            semi-arid Central Asia.
  ,DB                                       Water Resource Management
                                            and Land Rehabilitation
                                            Locust Control Project
                                            Rural Development Strategy
  'ACIS                                     Support to Integrated
                                            Marketing System
  'ID0 Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design:
The main lessonreflected inproject designi s the importance to link the objectives o f
environmental protection with tangible benefits for key stakeholders. Other lessons learned from
rural environmental and agricultural operations inthe regions and reflected inthe proposed
project include:
the early involvement ofkeystakeholders inprojectpreparation, specifically local communities
and influentialdecision makers, is essential inorder to ensure ownership and successful
implementation;
where consumptive use ofnatural resources is an issue, (e.g., grazing, hunting, anduse o f
agricultural land), resourceusers mustbe substantivelyinvolved inthe design of sustainable
resourcemanagement systems, and effective monitoring and controlmechanisms needto be
developed and applied;
decentralized responsibility for project management (e.g., as inthe WBIGEF) buildslocal
ownership andsustainability ofproject activities;
although national andlocal institution do have some implementation capacity, training for project
related activities such as procurement, disbursement, supervision, financial management etc. i s a
must; and



                                                       -17-

dissemination o finformation about the benefits o f improvedenvironmental management is
critical to the widespread adoption o fnew technologies andpractices.
successful, geographically targetednatural resource managementprojects canbe replicated
providedthat interventions are well understood by concerned institutions.

4. Indications of borrower andrecipientcommitmentandownership:
The Government o fKazakhstanrecognizes that a holistic approachcombining good
agro-pastoral practices and ecologically sustainable landuse managementis the most efficient
way to contribute to reducing landdegradation and desertification. The Ministry o f
Environmental Protection (MEP) andthe Ministry o f Agriculture (MOA) havejointly
requested the World Bank assistance, both technical and financial intheir efforts to promote this
project. A specific demonstration o f commitment i s that counterpart fundingo f $80,000 for the
calendaryear 2003 has already beenallocated inthe Republican Budget.

The Government hasbeenactively involvedwith project preparationfi-om the very outset. It
establishedan Inter-MinisterialWorking Group inApril 2000, underthe chairmanship o f MEP,
to undertake potential site visits and identify a suitable area, proposepossible activities for
sustainable rangeland managementand agree on institutionalarrangements for project
implementation, includingthe establishment and composition o fa Steering Committee. The
Project Preparation Unithas beensuccessfully working to design the project, hasprepared a draft
project implementation plan, and at least 22 background working papers (see Annex 8 for a
complete list). MEP, MOA, LandResourcesManagement Agency o fthe Republic o f
Kazakhstan, Center for Hydrometeorological Monitoring worked together to designthe project,
and were supported intheir efforts bythe necessaryauthorities. Government i s enthusiastic about
the proposed project and has already initiated measuresto ensure its effective implementation.

Also at local level bothbeneficiaries and local authorities are committed to the project andhave
confirmed their contributionto project implementationincashandor kind(time, labor, etc.). The
local officials inShetsky rayon, including the Akim (mayor) and deputy Akim have
enthusiastically endorsed the project. Theyhave provided easy accessto farmers, local officials
andwomen's andother interested groups. Likewise, the Akimo fKaraganda Oblast (of which
Shetsky is apart) has also welcomed the project.

5. Value addedof BankandGlobalsupport inthis project:
The principalvalue added o fWorld Bank support is the experience developed inaddressingthe
links betweennatural resourcesmanagement and environmental protection. The Bank also has
substantial successful experience insupporting improvednatural resourcemanagement activities
indegraded, semi-arid ecosystems. The experience onimplementation arrangementshasproved
important to deliver results onthe ground, thus increasing credibility o f interventions.

The principal addedvalue o f GEF support comes from providing the necessary funds to catalyze
a set o f coordinated activities, including technical support and counterpart financing, for a
priority which couldhave beenoverlooked. The GEFwill help leverage finds from donors and
stimulate a program to generatea largerimpact. Inthis regard, the GlobalMechanism (GM) o f
the UNCCD has already expressedits Commitment for parallel cofinancing with regardto the


                                                 - 18-

component on carbon seqestrationmonitoring and the corresponding public awarenessand
replicationstrategy.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
:TI
_' Cost benefit        NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
(3! Cost effectiveness
0 IncrementalCost
2  Other (specify)
The incremental Cost Analysis compared the baseline scenariowith anthe GEF alternative
scenario. The baseline scenario includes activities that will promote sustainable landuses inthe
country even without GEF support. The GEF alternative would providethe means (above and
beyond the baseline scenario) for meeting the proposedproject's goals. The difference between
the total project cost ($9.7 million) andthe cost o fthe baseline scenario ($4.4 million) provides
an incremental cost o f $5.3 million, which would fundedbythe GEF. Inaddition, a
quantification o fpotential benefits interms o f carbon sequestratedwas estimated. See Annex 11
for further details.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:
According to the project financing plan, summarized inthe following table, contributions from
the Government o f Kazakhstan i s $2.4 million infive years, or an average o f $480,000 per year.
An estimated $880,000 ofGovernment contributionis to refundtaxes which will bepaidunder
project activities. Some non-bank-financed project inputswill be inkind(use o fpublic facilities
as project offices, state programs on veterinary and research, and other support to farmers), The
significant oil revenues o fthe Government, which has also set aside an "oil fund" to compensate
for oil price fluctuations, should allow this allocation bythe government duringproject
implementation. The following table summarizes the project financing plan.

         Financier         US$ million

  GOK                          2.4


  TOTAL                        9.7



3. Technical:
Several technical analyseswere carried out duringproject preparation. The mainresults o f such
analyses were the following:

 0   identificationo fthe appropriate technologies and speciesto revegetate abandonedcereal



                                                 -19-

     land,
     identificationo ftechnology for multiplyingWheat Grass (Agropyron desortorum),Russian
     Wild Rye      (Psathyrostachysjuncea) Sainfoin (Onobrychis arenaria) and the bush
     Teresken Gray (Ceratridespappusa)
     rehabilitationo fwater points to improvepasturemanagement, reduce overgrazing nearby
     settlements, and improvelivestock productivity duringwinter
     the possibility o f supporting a tree plantingactivity was dropped becausean analysisproved
     that the technical risks for such activity would be excessively high
     remote sensing and modellingfor estimation andmonitoring o f carbon sequestration
     technologies to provide empirical measurementson quantity o fcarbon sequestration
     organization o fpartnerships for milkmarketing
     design o fthe dissemination and replicationcampaign

4. Institutional:
The existing Project PreparationUnit,which would evolve into a Project Management Unit,has
proven to have sufficient capacity to procure and supervise several consultants at the same time,
andact as anefficient linkwith the Project SteeringCommittee. After strengtheningthe field
office inthe Shetzky Rayon (an effectiveness condition, see chapter G1) the institutional capacity
for project implementation at the fieldand national levelwill be considered adequate. The
project buildsonthe institutionalcapacity establishedthrough ongoing projects inthe country,
e.g. USDA interventions on carbon sequestration.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Government o f Kazakhstan designatedthe Ministryo f EnvironmentalProtection as the line
Ministrywithoverall responsibility for project implementation.
4.2 Project management:
Overall project managementand oversight will be the task o fthe Project Management Unit,
under the Ministryo f Environmental Protection. The Project Manager will dividehislher time
between the office inAstana and the office establishedinthe Shetzky Rayon (town of
Aksu-Ayuli)therebyprovidingeasyaccess to beneficiaries, stakeholders, implementing agencies
andthe necessarygovernment officials both at the national and local level.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Goods and services would be procured according to World Bank procedures. An assessmento f
procurement capacity has been carried out. See h e x 6 for procurement details under the
project.
4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
Financialmanagementarrangementsare providedinAnnex 6. A FinancialManagement
Capacity Assessment has been carried out and found that the project financialmanagement
arrangementsacceptable to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                       Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.I Summarize the steps undertakenfor environmental assessmentandEMPpreparation(including
consultation and disclosure) andthe significant issues andtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
The environmental assessmentwas prepared inearly 2002 following initial studies in2000 by


                                                  -20-

local consultants, visits to some o fthe project sites by international consultants, consultations
and correspondence between international andnational consultants and discussion between all
interestedparties, especially people livinginthe project area.

Insummarythe EAdeterminedthat the impacts of the proposedproject areoverwhelmingly
positive. The various initiatives should halt the degradation o fthe land, rejuvenate abandoned
andpasturelands, improvebiodiversityandcarbon sequestration, reduce windandwater erosion
and increasesoil quality:

1. Large areas ofthe rangelandsand grasslandsare deteriorating due to overgrazing close to
    villages andpoor management, includinguncontrolled fires, inremoter areas. This has
    reduced the biodiversityonthese lands andthere i s a steady loss o f carbon from the
    decreasedvegetation cover and from the soils. This i s compounded byan increaseinwind
    and water erosionbecauseofthesepractices. This hasresultedina sharp decline inthe
    carrying capacity o fthe landwith a reducednumbero f farm andwild animals.

2. The abandonedwheat areas are inpoor conditiondue to preponderanceof invasive and
    unpalatable species. This i s preventingthe re-establishment o f indigenous grassland
    vegetation. Iti s also leading to a spreado fthese aggressive species to other areas, including
    the remaining cereal areas, acceleratedbypoor farming practices due to a lack o fequipment,
    capital and other inputs.

3. A numbero f flora and fauna are underthreat as a result o fthese deteriorating conditions. If
    little or nothing is done to halt this decline, then the area will slowly degrade and reduce its
    viability even as pastoral land. Some o fthese rangelandsmay eventually reachdesert status.

Nonetheless the project could cause minor negative impacts ifproper precautions are not taken.
Areas containing endangeredor valuable species maybe neglectediftoo mucheffort is focused
onthe abandonedlands, thus critical bio-diversity could be lost. To counter this, special
attention will be givento identif4lngandprotecting such areas, The success o fthe project can
lead to a two and a halffold increaseinanimal carrying capacity. Duringthe winter period, these
animals will be confined to cattle sheds or areas nearto the homesteads. Manure handlingand
disposal couldbe a concern. Stepswill be taken to demostrate the safe handlingand storage o f
manure and its appropriate use on arable and horticultural areas. If     methane productionfrom
manureis anenvironmental concern, methodsto mitigatethisproductioncouldbeinvestigated
and demonstrated, such as spreading the dungto reduce the temperature and thus curtailing
methane production. Methane extraction ina digester i s another possibility, but as this i s still in
the experimental stage incountries with low winter temperatures, this option will not be pursued
at present. Another minor concern i s the use o f Chemical Control Agents (CCA). While it is
planned that the project will not finance the purchaseo fpesticides or other chemicals to control
weeds and insect, farmers inthe areamay use them. The project will offer environmental
training inpermitted CCAs, their handlingstorage and use andthe disposal o f containers.
Alternatives to CCAs will be demonstrated such as integrated pest management(IPM). The
training will be conducted by specialists inthe environment department o fMEP, agricultural
departments o fthe oblast and rayon akimats as well as specialists fi-om the Karaganda University.



                                                  -21 -

The environmental managementplanhasbeenformulated incoordination withthe farming plan
through the promotiono f environmentally friendly farmingpractices. The mainthrust o fthe
EMP i s to returnthese areas to productive and sustainable grazinglands. Former cereal landwill
bereseededwith indigenous grassesand other rangeland species. Invasive plant specieswill be
reducedbyvarious managementmethods. The management o frangelandswill be improvedby
erosion prevention methods, controlled fire management, reseeding, resuscitating distant
watering points andprotectingareas containing useful or endangeredspecies. The project will
increase shrubs andbushes, particularly fodder species. These environmental initiatives will run
intandemwithformalandinformalenvironmental training anddemonstrationfor allsectorsof
the population. Thus, the EMP will helprejuvenate the areaby reducing erosion, reversing
degradation, enhancing biodiversity andpromoting carbon sequestration. It should act as an
example for other drylandareas inKazakhstan and Central Asia.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The mainfeatures o fthe EMP will be:
  0    Undertakebaseline surveys ofbiodiversityandcarbon stored inplants and soils
  0    Monitor all project sites for compliance with best environmental practices
  e    Take farmers to all demonstration sites andprovide themwith advice and seek their
         opinions.
  e Runtraining courses for project staffand farmers onthe implications and application of
         the EMP, on integrated pest management
  0    Encourage schools to undertake inventories o f flora and fauna
  0    Undertake a survey o fbio-diversity `hotspots' and take measuresto protect them
  0    Encourage schools to seek out andprotect areas o fnatural beauty or important
         bio-diversity sites
  e    Collaborate with the Ministryof Educationto enlarge environmental education inschools
  0    Encourage shrub plantinginareas prone to erosion and to encourage water infiltration
  e    Promote privatenurseries to provide shrub seedlingslcuttings for the project and for sale
  0    Support the use o frenewable (wind) energyto supplywater for cattle inremote locations.
         Inrelationto this, monitor the groundwater around the wells to ensure itisnotbeing
         depleted
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                   Date o freceipt o f final draft: February 2003
An environmental assessmento fproject activities hasbeenmade andmitigationmeasureto
addresspossible environmental impacts have been agreed. These are shown inAnnex 11.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consultedat the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposedenvironment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Fromproject identificationthere has been close consultation with the local administration and
farmers inthe selectedproject area. This will be an ongoing activity throughout the project
implementation.

Duringthe first stageofpreparationabaseline survey was carriedout. The surveywas



                                                     -22-

conducted intwo stages. First, rapidrural appraisalswere carried out in 11villages duringwhich
in-depthinterviewswere made with two keypeople ineachvillage. Subsequently, randomly
selectedheads o fpeasantfarms, andheads o fhouseholds were interviewed indepth. Also, two
villages were chosen for holding focus group discussions; one inAksu-Ayuly, the headquarters
o fthe Shetsky district, andthe secondinKzyltau, Aholinski district, which is muchmore
remote. Two focus groups were heldineachvillage, the first comprising members o fbudgetary
organizations, the secondwith headsandmembers o fpeasantfarms.

Individual local consultants are also working closely with farmers and rural households inthe
processo f understanding the present systems o fagriculture and preparing proposals for the
project activities. Many farmers have already agreedto use their landfor demonstration
purposes. Once the project will beunder implementation, it is envisagedthat manymore farmers
will enroll. Out o fthe 585 peasantfarms, it is estimated that at least 400 will volunteer for some
kindofprojectactivity.
5.5 What mechanisms havebeen established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o fthe EMP?
A detailedsystemto monitor project impact onthe environment hasbeendeveloped. This
includes baseline surveys, demonstrationplans and monitoringprograms for biodiversity, carbon
sequestration, soil quality, manure handling, and 'best farming' practices. Soil testing will be
undertaken and ground water monitored around the wells as laid out inAnnex 11.
Environmental Management Indicators are reflected inthe EMP. These meet the objectives and
goals o fthe Project and comply with international standards.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A baseline socio-economic surveyat the village level hasbeenconducted inthe project area.
The Bank-cleared questionnaire was first tested inpilot interviews insix villages. Itwas decided
to split the interviews into two groups, one covering headso fpeasantfarms, the other heads o f
individual households. Ineachcase a random sample o f 102individuals was selected Focus
groups were also held intwo villages -one at Aksu-Ayuli, the district headquarters, the other in
amore remote village which included both menand women inthe project area. See Annex 14for
a description o fthe project area, comprising a summary o f socio-economic survey results. The
surveyevinced the following:

     farmers were keento move from the crop-based productionsystem to the traditional
     livestock-basedproductionsystem. The social feasibility o f such a change i s based onthe
     fact that all farms already had some ongoing livestock activities. However, the survey drew
     the attention to the risk o fretumto the crop-based system incase o f significant short-term
     increases incrop prices. This induced the project design effort to better addressing
     marketingo f livestock products.
     farmers agreedwith the suggestion o fcreating farmer partnerships. The projectplans to
     helpfarmers to organize six partnerships aroundthe milkcollectionpoints.
     information on the availability and quality o fmachinery confirmedthat farmers can
     effectively participate inproject activities and allowed the development o f a procurement



                                                 -23-

     planto purchase only the necessarymachinery taking into account fanners' possibilities
 a   farmers expected the Government to assist with seeds, fuel, spare parts and other
     "subsidies" (as duringthe Soviet period). To reduce this expectation, the survey
     recommended the development o f a strong communication campaign under component
     four-public awarenessprogram.
 a the importance ofintegratingwomen intoproject activities; the project encouraged
     women's participation inthe planning, design and implementation o fproject activities to
     increaseimpact and ensure success.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
Duringproject preparation, keystakeholders, individualfarmers, farmer organizations, NGOs,
andlocal officials have beenfully consultedinthe development ofdetailed projectcomponents.
As women are deeply involved inproductive labor, such as livestock tending, the project sought
to ensure the involvement o f women inproject preparation. According to the project financing
plan, beneficiaries should contribute to almost 20% o fproject costs.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Project preparatory activities have been undertaken with full involvement and participationo f
government counterparts, various researchinstitutions, NGOsandrelevant civil society
organizations. Extensiveconsultative meetings were heldduringproject preparation andthe
inputofthese groups havehelpedinthe outcome ofprojectdesign.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Project Management Unitwill ensure participationofbeneficiaries inthe implementation o f
the project. The PMUwill monitor andevaluate project progressand measurethe impact o f
project activities againstthe socio-economic baseline survey undertakenduringproject
preparation. The PMUwill undertake a systematic analysis o fthe impact and achievements o f
project activities andthe results o fthe M&Eactivities will be fedback into the implementation
process.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
Monitoringwill be basedon the baseline survey undertaken duringpreparationphase o fthe
project. Extensive data from communities and villages hasbeen collected and the Project
PreparationUnithas developed performance indicators basedon Annex 1. A monitoring and
evaluation systemthat will include social indicators has been developed bythe PMU which will
annually monitor and evaluate project performance through conducting beneficiary surveys. The
project will also monitor access to benefits at the household level - intotal and disaggregatedby
gender and age, The results o fM&Eactivities will be fedback into the implementationprocess
as improvedpractices. A mid-termreview will be camedout to assess overall progress. Lessons
learned, with recommendations for any improvements, would beused inrestructuring the project,
ifnecessary.



                                                 - 24 -

7. SafeguardPolicies:




    CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03)                                           0 0 Yes    NO
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                            0Yes0      NO
    InvoluntaryResettIement (OPIBP 4.12)                                  i:Yes0NO
    Safety ofDams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                        'L) Yes 0  NO
    ProjectsinInternationalWaters(OP 7.50, BP7.50, GP 7.50)               0 0 Yes    NO
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP7.60, GP 7.60)*                   9Yes       NO


7.2 Describeprovisions madebythe project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
An environmental assessment was carriedout, andthis formed the basis o fthe Environmental
Management Plan(see para. 5 above), The EMP makes provisions to ensure compliance with
the EA safeguardpolicy.

Pest ~ u n u g e ~ e nAlthough farm inputuse i s the farmers' responsibility, the projectwill use
                      t .
this opportunity to assistfarmers tousethese inputsinamoresafe andresponsible way. The
project does not planto finance the purchase o f Chemical Control Agents (CCAs) although
farmers will continue to use some CCA for their regular farming activities duringthe life o fthe
project, especially for the control o f locusts and hessianflies. The Government o f Kazakhstan
has recently upgraded its managemento fthe controland oversight regarding use of pesticides
withthe helpofFA0(FAOITCPIKAZ 0065 (E) "Emergency Programfor the ControlofLocust
Outbreaks"). A new Department o f Plant Protectionand Quarantine (DPPQ) was establishedin
the Ministryo fAgriculture bythe Government o fKazakhstan. The project will buildon this
development. All farmers that use or will use CCA ontheir lands will betrained inthe storage,
handlinganduse o fthese chemicals as well as with respect to the careful disposal ofthe
containers. The use o fappropriate clothing will be encouragedthrough demonstration. The

benzoyl ureas (Dimilin) - all class IIIchemicals. Farmers may also use chemicals for the control
approved chemicals usedare pyrethro; As (Kinmix, Fury, Karate), phenylpyrazoles (adonis) and

o fticks and other parasites. These farmers will be included inthe training inriskpreventing; and
inthe handling, storageanduseofcontrolagents. Participating farmers areexpectedto develop
pest managementplans that indicate the expectedpests and corresponding anticipated control
methods.

The project intends to explore alternative methodsto chemicals, suchas disease-resistant strains
(from local wild varieties) and integrated pest managementwill be demonstrated. Localpeople
may know of natural predators andplants with naturally occurring insecticide properties: such
indigenous knowledge should be tapped.




                                                  -25-

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project has beenprepared at the request o fthe Government. The Government recognizesthat
a holistic approach combininggood agro-pastoral practices and ecologically sustainablelanduse
management i s criticalto ensure improvements to landdegradation and threats o fdesertification.
For this reason, the project, with full participation of relevant ministries, government agencies
and local populations has been developedusingan integrated ecosystemmanagementapproach
which will ensure long-term sustainability o fproject activities.

To ensure institutionalsustainability, the PMUwill be located inAksu-Ayuliduringpartproject
implementation which will help bringproject managementto the local level. The MEP andM O A
at the national level as well as the local government, agencies and fanning communities are in
full support ofthe project andwere actively engagedinproject preparation. Severalscientific
institutes, such as the GrainResearchInstitute, Soils ResearchInstitute andthe National
ProductionCenter for LandManagement which have strong institutional capacity and aproven
track record at the county level will share responsibility for project implementation at the field
level and will thus ensure sustainability ofthe project. To ensure social sustainability, the project
has emphasizedthe early
involvement of key stakeholders inproject preparation and implementation, includingpolicy
makers,
local public officials and community leaders, farmers, their associations, NGOs. Such
involvementwill
create a sense of ownership and contribute to social sustainability. Inaddition, the project would
benefit
the fanners bypromoting cost-saving yield-enhancing agricultural practices as well rehabilitation
o f
degradedpastures and grasslands which have the potential to opennew markets for the local
farmers and
raise household incomes. Suchproject interventions will ensure financial sustainability.
Environmental
sustainability is the keyelement to project design.

la. Replicability:
The GEF will notprovide additional funds for replicationofproject interventions outside the
project area, except hndinga replication strategy to disseminate project benefits. As a result, the
catalyzer to provide financial incentives duringthe initial period o flimitedprivate benefits will
be missing. Therefore to replicate project activities outside the pilot it will benecessaryto
identify other sources o f similar financial incentives.

Duringanalysiswithdifferentcounterparts, itwas considered realistic that oncethe
medium-tennlocalbenefits ofthe project supportedpractices areproven, the Government is
likely to be willing to put inplace the appropriate incentives to encourage widespread adoption
o fthe landuse practices supportedunderthe project. Indeedeven inthe current 2003-2005
agro-food program, state support and subsidies are targeted to those farmers who adopt sound



                                                 -26-

environmental practices (such as conservation tillage where suitable).

Project's activities have been developed to maximize the potential for replicability. A specific
component on replication strategyhas beendeveloped underthe project whereby a public
awareness and communication campaign on project activities andbenefits will beundertaken to
generate interest for replicationo fproject interventions bothwithin andoutside Kazakhstan, in
countries with similar dryland ecosystems. This will be achieved through national andregional
workshops, field trips, training, publicationininternational agriculture and environmental
journals and other similar activities. Suchreplication activities will be concentratedinthe last
threelfour years o fproject implementation whenthere are tangible results onthe ground. In
addition the project location-- along the Almaty-Astana road-- was selectedto increasepotential
for replicationas the site i s easily accessible for demonstrations.

2. Critical Risks(reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column ofAnnex 1):


                    Risk
 FromOutputsto Objective                                         I
 Pilot will not be successfully completed             M          Detailedpilot design, with contribution of
                                                                 several experienced national and international
                                                                 agencies
 Replication will not be successful (within            S         A project component has beendesignedto
 Kazakhstan andor inthe region)                                  specifically address this risk. Potential use o f
                                                                 carbon trading and/or availability o f oil
                                                                 revenue should facilitate replication of a
                                                                 successful pilot (at least inKazakhstan.)
 Unstableclimatic conditions                          M          The five years implementationperiod should

1                                                                allow for some flexibility ifclimatic conditions
                                                                 prove unusual for one or two years
 From Componentsto Outputs
 Farmers are less willing than planned to             M          A careful assessmento fsocial feasibility o f
 accept suggestedpractices                                        suggestedpractices was carriedout. The main
                                                                  suggestion was to invest on a public awareness
                                                                 campaign directed to the project beneficiaries
 Lack o f funding particularly from the               M          Communication campain to ensure involvemen
private sector                                                   o f the new Agricultural Credit Partnerships,
                                                                 donors, akimat, andmarketing enterprises
                                                                 contribution.

Implementingagencies may be unable to                 M          Project will provide training and career
attract andretain qualified staff                                development benefits andwork towards
especially inthe field and laboratories.                         establishing loyalty inthisprofessional field.

Unsuccessful bushand shrub plantings                  M          Care taken to select indigenous species that
due to harshclimate                                              grow inthe project's ago-climatic zone.
                                                                 Chosen species financially beneficial.
Overall Risk Rating                                   M
Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRis
            -


                                                    -27-

3. PossibleControversial Aspects:
None

G. Main Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
None

2. Other [classify according to covenant types usedinthe Legal Agreements.]
Datedcovenants.            Hiringofasuitable FinancialManagement Specialist basedinthe Shetzky
rayon(district) to separate Financial Management andProcurement responsibilities (currently
coveredby one consultant) by October 31,2003.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
   1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
        start o f project implementation.
   1. b) Not applicable.

E2.   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of

E3.Theproject implementation.
          Project Implementation Planhas beenappraised and found to be realistic ando f satisfactory

3     quality.
   4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loanconditions (Section G):




1. Compliancewith Bank Policies
E1.Thisproject
a2.The              complies with all applicable Bank policies.
          following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
      witb all other applicable Bankpolicies.




flL.LGt:                       i/
Bulat Utkelov                           Marjory-Anne Bromhead                   Dennis deTray
Team Leader                             Sector ManagerlDirector                 CountryManagerlDirector




                                                   - 28 -

                               Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                      KAZAKHSTAN: DRYLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                               KeyIndicators
                                    Performance      Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                           CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   jector Indicators:       jectorl countryreports:   from Goalto Bank Mission)
Rural poverty alleviation mprovedincomes of         4gricultural and          ;uccessful completion of
                           Iroject beneficiaries    mviromental statistics;   he pilot
                           liverse income sources   `leld reports

Protection of the          Successfulreplication of vlonitoring system of the ;uccessful
environment                he pilot                 .eplication strategy      mplementation of the
                                                    :omponent                 eplication strategy;

                                                                              Iontinued economic
                                                                              rowth
Project Development
Objective:
To demonstrate and          Numberofhectares
promote sustainable land inder sustainable use       4gricultural and         Tamers are willing to
uses inthe marginal         Increaseinnumber o f     mvironmental statistics; iccept proposed practices
dryland ecosystemof a      ivestock (from 35,000     iroject monitoring
pilot areainthe Shetsky    lnimal equivalent units   *eports
rayon                      o 70,000)                 dousehold surveys
                            Income increase
GEF OperationalProgram:    lutcome I Impact
                           ndicators:
GEF Operational            Successful demonstration ?roject monitoring        Social and economic
Program 12, "Integrated    ,fthe alternative landuse ;ystem                   'easibility ofthe
Ecosystems                 `ystems,provingthe                                 .econversionfrom a
Management which is
               "           :conomic and social                                :ereal cropping systemto
aimed at catalyzing        easibility of                                        L livestock system
widespreadadoption of      ivestock-based
comprehensive              rroduction systems in
ecosysteminterventions     `imilarecosystems
that integrate ecological,
economic, and social
goals to achieve multiple
andcross-cutting local,
national and global
benefits.
OP 15: LandDegradation
Control which
emphasizes sustainable
landmanagement.




                                                 -29-

Global Objective:           OutcomeI Impact             Voject reports:          from Objectiveto Goal)
                            Indicators:
Increasedcarbon             The target o f0.6 million   2uantification o fcarbon
sequestrationto mitigate tons o fC02 sequestrated 'equestrationcomponent
climate change              over 20 years

Knowledge on                New empirical data on                                $tableclimatic
quantification o fcarbon    carbon sequestratedin                                :onditions (no incurrence
sequestration               soil andbiomass inthe                               Ifextraordinarydroughts
                            continetal steppe                                   Luringproject
                            ecosystem                                            mplementation)
Haltingandor reversing Reduced landunder
landdegradation andthe ploughingandincreased           I'roject reports
threat o f desertification. rangelands                 Topographical reports
                                                       Economic reports
                            Increasedvegetative        Project monitoring
                            cover                      system

                            Increasedcarrying
                            capacity o fthe land

Biodiversityconservation Increasedbiodiversity in Biodiversitymonitoring
by improvingand             the region                 reports from observation
protecting the native       Increasedsustainability    underthe seventeen
flora andfauna o fthe       o fthreatened species      monitoring sites
region
Reducedsoil erosion         Reducedgrasshopper
                            infestations



Output from each            0utpi:t Indicators:        Project reports:          from 0utpr;ts to Objective)
Component:
1.Developmentof                                                                  9ctive collaboration of
Sustainable Land Use                                                             :anners
Systems
Direct seedingon            At least 70% ofthe target Project monitoring and     The Ministryo f
abandonedlands              o f 10,000 ha is achieved reporting system           kvironmental Protection
                                                                                 ias the capacity to
                                                                                 mplement the project
Seedingusing                At least 70% o fthe target as above
conservation tillage        of 10,000 ha i s achieved
Acceleration o fnatural     At least 70% o fthe target as above
vegetation                  of20,000 ha i s achieved                             'roject incentives are
                                                                                 iufficient to motivate


                                                   -30-

                      Validation and                                     armersto participate in
                      demonstration o fnew                               heproject
                      technologies infour
                      demonstration plots
Uanagemento f         Installation o f40 water  1s above
DegradedRangelands    points inthe project area
indPastwelands
                      Reducedovergrazing by
                      at least 70% o fcurrent
                      levels

                      Increasedlivestock
                      numbers

!.InitialService
Support to Producer
Zroups
mprovedaccess to      Creation ofmarket in      ?rojectmonitoring and    darketing systems and
narketoflivestock     Aksu-Ayuli                -eportingsystem          Irices offer sufficient
xoducts               Establishment of                                   ncentive to producers
                      marketing associations                             mdprocessors
3. Quantification of  New knowledge to          ?rojectmonitoring and    Zollaborating institutes
Zarbon sequestration  quantify andmonitor       *eportingsystem          r e effective in
                      carbon sequestration                               mplementingproject
                                                                         ictivities.
I.ReplicationStrategy Increasedawarenessand Vumberofdissemination
and public awareness  knowledge o f sustainable :vents: local workshops,
                      livestock-based           Zonferences, publications
                      productionsystem at       *ecordedbythe project
                      local, national and       nonitoring system
                      regional level

                      Replicationo fproject     ?roject monitoring
                      interventions within      system
                      Kazakhstan and other      ?roject Steering
                      countries o fCentral Asia Zommittee
                                                World Bank supervision
5. Project Management Timely implementation     ?roject monitoring       rimelyavailabilityof
                      o fprocurement plan       systemand World Bank     Zounterpartfbnds
                                                supervision
                      Project monitoring and    World Bank supervision   Support fi-om local and
                      reporting system working indSteering Committee     iational authorities
                      effectively




                                             -31-

'roject ComponentsI        Inputs: (budgetfor each     'reject reports:       From Componentsto
Sub-components:            component)                                         Iutputs)
1. Development of          $5.53 million               lisbursement tables    zffective project
SustainableLandUse                                                            nanagement
Systems

2. Initial Service Support $1.28 million                                     rimelyavailability of
:oProducer Groups                                                             :ounterpart funds

3. Quantification of       $1.3 1million
Zarbon sequestration

t .Replication Strategy    $0.85 million
mdpublic awareness

5 .Project Management      $0.73 million




                                                  - 32 -

                            Annex 2: DetailedProject Description
                    W K H S T A N : DRYLANDS MANAGEMENTPROJECT

By Component:

Project Component1 US$5.53 million
                    -
Deveiopment of Sustainable Land UseSystems.

This will include:
1.1 Revegetation of Abandoned Cereal Lands -(a) direct seeding with perennials; (b) seeding
    program using conservation tillage, and (c) assisting farmers with acceleration of natural
    revegetation.
1.2 Management of Degraded Pastures and Rangelands including-(a) improvements to natural
    pastures and rangelands; (b) biodiversity monitoring; (c) provisionof livestock watering
    points; and (d) monitoring of livestock enterprises.
1.3 Validation and de~onstrationof new technologies.

1.1RevegetationofAbandoned CerealLands
1.1.1. Revegetation of Abandoned Cereal Lands throughDirect Seedingand Seeding using
Conservation Tillage
The project will revegetate about 20,000 ha of abandoned cereal lands as follows: on the fields
recently removed from crop production, the project will provide direct seeding of perennial
grasses (10,000 ha); fields abandoned more than three but less than ten years ago and which are
under scattered unpalatable species of weedy plants, will be seeded with perennial grasses using
conservation tillage (10,000 ha). The project will start the program inthree sub-districts
(Aksu-Ayulinsky, Shetsky & Koktenkolsky) in2003104 and cover all eleven districts by 2006107;
see table below:

                                       Area to be Reseeded


                            PY1 PY2            PY3
Area sownlyear (ha.) - 500           1500
direct seeding:           1         I         I 2500
Area sowdyear (ha.) - 500            1500     2500        3000     I2500     I
conservation tillage
Total Area revegetated     1,000     4,000      9,000
(ha) - cumulative
No. ofdistricts -         3          7         11
cumulative
Number of farms             10       40         90
-cumulative                                                150     I2oo      I
Technical aspects: It is possible to rehabilitate these abandoned cereal lands into hayfields and
pastures containing adapted and nutritive species of perennial grasses. Depending on the



                                                -33-

landscape andweather conditions, the suggestedaltematives can yield from 800-3000 kgdry
matterlha. The main speciesto be sown will include Wheat Grass (Agropyron desortorum),
Russian Wild Rye (Psathyrostachy~juncea) and Sainfoin (Onobrychis arenaria). Other
revegetationoptions will be tested underthe trialldemonstration program (see section 1.3 below).
Seed supplies will be contracted from several sources including, initially, the Karaganda
Agricultural ResearchInstitute andprivate farms knownto have seed stocks. The project will
give priorityto developing seed production on a contractual basis with individual farmers. Seeds
will betested for germination andpuritybythe Ministry o fAgriculture, SeedInspectionUnit.

Criteria for Selection of Farmer Participants: Farmerparticipants inthe revegetationprogram
will needto meet the following criteria:
(i)Mainincomeisfromagriculture;
(ii) farmhasunused,abandonedlandandappropriateagriculturalmachinery(orableto
   The
   access machinery on a custom hire or sharing arrangement), together with a livestock
   enterprise capable o fusingadditional fodder andor a demonstrated capacity to sell hay;
(iii)   Willingness to sign an agreementunder which (a) inreturnfor grant o fup to 75% o fthe
   cost ofreseedingthey will provide 25% o fthe costs inkind, and (b) will commit themselves
   to subsequentmaintenance o f the re-sown fields andutilization through livestock.

Aninitial survey carried out with the assistanceoflocal Akimats indicatesthat some 152farmers
intheproject areameetthe abovecriteria andare interestedinparticipating inthe project. The
PPUis indiscussionwith several o fthese farmers on the revegetation program for 2003. Itis
expectedthat upto 200 farmers will participate bythe endo fthe five-year program. Inaddition,
other, larger farmers would be expectedto undertake these activities ontheir own account.

1.1.2. Revegetation of Abandoned Cereal Lands ThroughAcceleration of Natural Revegetation
For lands abandonedmore than ten years ago and currently under substantial natural revegetative
cover, the project will promote aprogram to acceleratenatural revegetation (10,000 ha). The
main elements o fthe program will include seeding ofbare areas, use o fphosphate fertilizer to
encourage development of legumes and minor mechanical operations to encourage infiltration o f
precipitation. The program i s expectedto buildas follows:

                Area of Ploughed Lands for Acceleration of NaturA Revegetation
Project Year (PY):          I PY1      I P Y 2   IPY3      IPY4        lpY5
Area -haiyear                 250        750      2500       3000        3500
Total Area -ha (             250         1,000    3,500      6,500       10,000
cumulative)
No. o f districts            3           7        11         11          11
(cumulative)
Numberoffarms                 3          10        35        65          100
(cumulative)

Implementation Arrangements: Farmers participatinginthe revegetation and acceleration o f
natural revegetationprogram will receive a grant (inkindand cash) equivalent to approximately
75% o fthe total cost of establishing new grasslands. In-kindcontributionwill include he1and


                                              - 34 -

seedwhich will be providedup-front. The cost o f fuel and seed i s equivalent underthe two
scenarios set out above i s 30-38% o fthe establishment costs. An additional cashpayment o f
about $7 per hectare inthe case o fdirect seedinginto stubbleand $17.60 inthe case o f
conservation tillage, will bringthe total value o fthe project support to about 75% o f costs. After
allowing for the in-kindcontribution o f farmers insubsequentlymaintaining the grasslandsinthe
first two to three years, the farmer share of the cost o frehabilitating abandonedlands rises to 30
-40%ofthetotal,Technicalassistancefortheaccelerationofrevegetationwouldbeprovidedby
the Forage ResearchInstitute. Participating farmers will receive fuel, seed and fertilizer
requirements inkindup-front. An additional cashpayment o f about $4 perhectare will bringthe
total value o fthe project support to about 75% o f costs.

Seedproduction for the Revegetation Promam (Working Paper 14)
Theproject will support the development o fa seedproductionsystemfrom Project Year 3 (PY3)
for the productiono f good quality seeds o f wheatgrass, Russian WildRye and Sainfoin to supply
the revegetation program. The PMUwill contract farmers for multiplyingseed andwill supply
themwith elite seedobtained from Central KazakhstanAgricultural ResearchInstitute (CKARI),
Karaganda. The seedproduced on contract would be tested for germination, physical purity and
moisture at the Ministry o fAgriculture Seed Inspection Laboratory, Karaganda, and certified
accordingly, prior to distributionto farmers participatinginthe revegetationprogram. Initial
requirements o f elite seeds for PY1 and PY2 will be obtained from CKARI.

Cost o fproduction for wheatgrass seed i s estimated at the equivalent o f about 32 U S centskg, or
38 UScentskg after adding a 20% for farmers' managementandmark-up. For RussianWild
Ryeand Sainfoin the costswith mark-up are estimated at 48 US cents/ kgand40 U S centskg,
respectively.

1.2 Management of DegradedPastures and Rangelands
This component would comprise the following activities: (i)     introductiono f shrubs; (ii) to
                                                                                             actions
stimulate growth o fexisting species o f shrubs; (iii) monitoring o fbio-diversity; (iv) installation
o flivestockwatering pointsto reduce grazing pressure; and(v) monitoringo flivestock
enterprises.

1.2.1Improvemenij to Natural Pasture and fiancelands
This sub-component will include the following activities: (a) to increaseproductivityo fdegraded
pastures and rangelands, belts o f drought-resistant forage plants (mixture o f lucerne and
wheatgrass alternated with sainfoin,) will be planted on 10,000 ha; (b) to reduce grazing
pressuresaround villages, the project will restore abandonedwatering points indistant pastures,
including establishment o f40 windmills usingrenewable wind energy to enable cattle to be
summered on more distantpastures. Windmills will provide both elevation of water and the
electricity for the farm inremote area. These measureswill provide watering sources to 53,860
ha o fpastures. The cost of establishment o fequipment o f one cattle watering point i s estimated
at US$5,446; (c) to protect watering points, shrubs such as Teresken Gray ~Ceratridespapp~sa)
will beplanted which will also provide additional biomass and improve snow accumulation
(9,000 ha). Inadditionto promoting shrubs, the project will provide phosphate fertilization to
stimulate legume development and grazing management. The interventions inthis program are


                                                 - 35 -

beingdeveloped incollaborationwiththe ForageInstitute, Almaty.

1.2.2 Bio-diversitv Monitoring
The project would provide for the documentation o fthe current bio-diversity inthe project area
andregular monitoringover five years. Forbiodiversitymonitoring, 500mx500mplotswill be
selected. These plots will be representative o fthe diversity o fhabitats and main types o f soil and
vegetation within the pilot project area. Specifically, the project will: (i)underake an assessment
o fthe current biodiversity inthe Shetskyrayon; (ii)   develop maps o f soil and vegetation cover to
develop landcover classification; (iii j undertakebiodiversitymonitoringat selectedkeysites;
(iv) define the physiological and ecological parameterso f vegetation for carbon sequestration;
and (v) preparerecommendations for biodiversitypreservation. This will includefield surveys at
seventeenmonitoringsites o fthe project area, analyseso fresults o fbiodiversity monitoring at
the key sites with historical data, analysis o f reasonsfor biodiversityloss, development o f actions
to preserve biodiversityfor specific sites o fthe project areaandcreation o fmaps with types o f
biodiversityrecommended for preservation inthe problem sites. The P M Uwould contract the
laboratory o f geo-botany o fthe Botany and Phyto-introduction Institute (Almatyj to carry out the
monitoring program.

1.2.3 Livestock WateringPoints
Distant pastures are under-utilized becauseof, inter alia, a lack o fwatering points. Many wells
inremotelocations are indisrepair andthere is alack ofelectricity andother services. The
project would provide for the installationo fup to 40 water-pumping sets inremote locations
usingrenewable wind energy. Bydemonstrating that windenergy canbe usedto pumpwater for
farm animals and humanneeds andprovide a limitedamount o f electricity for lightingand
appliances, farming families maybe willing to useremoter pastures andthereby increasetheir
earning capacity. Renewable energy i s environmentally friendly and canbe usedinplace o f
diesel pumps. These sites will also be usedto plant perennials roundthe watering points and
roundthe residencies, usingthe well water to establish the plantsinthe early years. The PMU
would contract an engineeringcompany to carry out the installation program. Large farmers
would be expected to provide some o fthe civil works costs,

1.2.4 Monitoring of LivestockEnterprises
An informationandrecordirLg/analysissystem will be set-up on about 20 participatingZdrmsto
document the impact o fthe project actions on livestockproduction and farm incomes (Working
Paper 5). The results o fthis recording system will be fed back to farmers participatinginthe
project to encourage improvedlivestockmanagement and realization o fbenefits fkom additional
fodder supplies. The data available should leadto a better understandingo fthe dynamics o fthe
livestock productionsystems inthe areaand, ultimately, provideinformation to support
applications for loans.

1.3 Validation and Demonstration of New Technologies
Itisproposedto organize agronomic trials within four demonstrationzoneswhichrepresentlarge
agro-climatic areas of the project territory. The main objective is to demonstrate the various
methods available to plant perennial and annual grasses, managerangelands and accelerate
natural revegetation at the lowest cost with the best return. The P M Uwill sub-contract the



                                                  -36-

   design and supervision o fthe trial and demonstration program with a researchinstitute. The
   options are the Grain Institute at Shortandy, KaragandaAgricultural College or the Agricultural
   ResearchInstitute, Karaganda. The selectedinstitute would be required to locate a technician in
   the project areato managethe field operations. Also, giventhe run-down state o ffarm
   machinery and equipment inthe Shetsky Rayon, it will be necessaryfor the project to finance the
   acquisition o f selecteditems o f farmmachinery for the on-farm trial and demonstrationprogram.
   Thismachinery will beheldat Aksu-Ayuliandwill be under the control ofthe institute
   contracted to carry out the field trials anddemonstrationprogram.
   (See Working Paper4 for details)

    1.4 Financing
   The component will be financed bythe GEF, project beneficiaries, andthe Government of
   Kazakhstan.

    ProjectComponent2 US$1.28 million
                         -
   Initial Service Support to Producer Groups

This component will provide free agricultural inputsto assist farmers inthe project areato "get
started." This will allow a smooth transitionto the improvedpractices which proposedunder the
project. Although inthe long runsuch practices will likelyresult inboth income generation and
global environmental benefits, inthe short runthey do not produce benefits, and could also cause a
loss. This component will help off-set this loss andprovide incentives to producer groups to adopt
the proposed practices.

    2.1 Assistanceto Producer Groups for Marketing Livestock and Agricultural Products
    The project will assistfarmers to form Producer Partnershipsfor facilitating accessto markets for
    the increasedmilk andmeat production expectedfrom the availability o fbetter feed and
    improved livestock management. The development o f farmer-managed, local market outlets will
    add value to farmers' production, raise farm incomes, and allow farmers to invest inorder to
    increasevolumes and quality o fproductionto meet effective demand and quality standards.

    Specifically, the project will assist farmers to:
    (i)establishvillagemilkcollectionscl-nters;
    (ii)establish a regional agriculture market for meat, wool and hides, and other farmer produce
        from the Shetskyregion;
    (iii)   establish localproducer partnerships to own and operatethe milk collectioncenters and
        agriculture market; and
    (iv)develop value addedproduction andprocessing projects insectors where there is an
        opportunity to create addition demand for village produce.

    Project support for marketing activities will take place intwo phases. TheFrst phase (PY 1)will
    establish pilot market linkagelmarketing projects to createa model andmethodology that canbe
    replicated initially inthe project area andultimately inother parts o fKazakhstan and Central
    Asia. Phase two o fthe marketingsupport (PY2-5), will refine the design o fmarketingactivities
    usinglessonslearnt, expandto additionalprojects, andimplementvalue addedactivities that help
    the agriculture enterprisesmeet effective demand, therebycreating new markets for small, family


                                                     - 37 -

farmers.

2.1.1Milk Collection Centers
InPhaseI(PY1)oftheproject, two milkcollectioncenterswillbeestablishedinseparaterural
sub-districts o fthe Shetsky region- Koktenkol and Nura-Taldi which have been chosenbasedon
the potential for quick, widespread impact and commitment from local and regional stakeholders
(local and regional government and private farmers and agribusinesses). An additional four
centers will be set up inPhaseII(PY2-5) o fthe project. The milk collectioncenters will collect
raw milk from private farmers, test and temporarily store milk, and sell it to local dairies. The
cost o f equipment for the milkcollection centers will be sharedbetween the Balkhash-Sut, the
private dairy plant and the farmer partnerships who will receive funds from the project for this.

Benefits: Producer Partnershipsowning and operating milk collection centerswill benefit inthe
following ways:
    local organization capacity to sell increasedvolumes o fquality milkto private dairies for
    cash;
    increaseinfamily farm income;
e economically viable to increasenumber ofdairy cows;
    creation o f newjobs inthe village;
e   new farming andmanagementtechniques; and
    new supplies, equipmentand technology available to farmers.

2.1.2 Marketing of Livestock, Meat, Wool,Hides and Ha-v
Anagriculture market will be set up inAksu-Ayulito sell agriculture products from private
farmers inthe region. Aksu-Ayuli has beenchosenas the locationbecause it i s centrally located,
making it more efficient to point to collect and sell farmer produce. The locationo fthe selected
site isjust 100 meters from the Almaty-Astana highway. This provides a very visible and
accessiblelocationfor suppliers(family farms) andwhalesale buyers. Development o fthe
marketwill take place intwo stages. Duringthe initial stage, wool, hides andhaywill be
collected, stored and sold. The secondstage will add livestock and other small farmer produce.

2.2      Livestock and Crop Husbandry Advisory Services for Farmers
The project will provide training andtechnical a;sistance to promotethe development o fthe
Local Daiw Producer Partner~hipsand Anriculture Market Partnership to handle marketingo f
hay, milk, and livestock products. The Project Technical Council will arrange training inall
aspects o f setting up a market, including legal issues involved, supplier relations, transportation,
sales, marketing as well as financial management, accounting and record keepingbyhiringthe
consultant company. Inview o fthe fact that over 85% o fthe country's populationdoes not have
special agricultural education, there i s a needfor a training program inmore progressive methods
o falternate sustainable livelihood. The project would provide for on site three-day training
sessions and one-week seminars for a total o fupto 500 people at local level. The seminars and
training would coincide with the time o f demonstration work inthe field, so as to show trainees
practical illustrations o f suitableto local conditions. Localtrainers and projects leaders will
participate inthe training o ftrainer programs. Training will also include fieldsite visits to similar
enterprisesoperating inother areas o f Kazakhstan and CIS countries. The details o fthe training

program are presentedinthe Working Paper 9.

2.3 Financing
The component willbe financed byGEF, project beneficiaries andthe Government of
Kazakhstan.

ProjectComponent3 US$1.31 million
                    -
Quantification of Carbon Sequestration

This is atarget researchactivitywhich is designedto provide empiricaldata oncarbon
sequestered by the proposedtechnologies. Currently there are no empirical data on the carbon
sequestratedbypasturesinsteppesecosystems incontinental climates. This createdsignificant
difficulties inestimating the potential carbon sequestrationo fthe proposedtechnologies insuch
eco-systems. The researcheffort would be instrumental inidentifylngthe landuse management
under which sequestrationof carbonwould be maximum. A quantification o fcarbonheldinsoil
andvegetation, together with monitoring o f carbon sequestrationmagnitudes anddynamics inthe
project area, will form a basis for providingreliable estimates o fcarbon sequestrationpotential in
other parts o fKazakhstan andCentral Asia. Thus, this project canplay apivotal role, not only in
Central Asia, butglobally, inthe development and implementation o f an effective carbon
monitoring andmanagement system.

Two main activities are proposedunder this component:
Carbon Stock Assessment: Carbon stock (carbon insoil andvegetation) quantification and
monitoring. Soil and geo-botany specialists will provide informationon existingcarbon stock in
soil and vegetation under present landuse managementinfour representative project sites. They
will continue to monitor the areaduringthe life o fthe project and provide informationonthe
changes occurring inthe carbon stock insoil andvegetation duringproject interventions. Carbon
stocks will be monitoredalso inareas without project intervention, to quantify the effects o fthe
proposed technology.
Remote Sensing and Modeling: Scalingup o f site-specific carbon insoil to the level o fthe
project area, and extrapolating the results to similar areas within Kazakhstanfor replicability and
the predictiono f carbon stock changes underalternative managementoptions. Usingsatellite
imagery, the findings from the sample fields will be scaled up to the entire study area. Since it i s
estimated that carbon sequestrationwill continue for 20 years, duringits 5 years o f
implementation the project will not be able to monitor the whole period. Therefore the project
will use existingmodels such as CENTURY to predict carbon sequestrationafter project
completion. Thus the project will engage inresearch, first relyingon conservative forecasts from
models to predict carbon sequestration, thenadjusting these forecasts upwardor downwardin
lightofempirical data. Parameterizationofthe CENTURY modelwill be undertaken. Such
remote sensing and modellingwill be instrumental inidentifylngthe landuse managementthat
has the highest potential for carbon sequestrationas well as that which would be most
economical as well as environmentally feasible, i.e. benefit stakeholdersand achieve maximum
carbon sequestration.

The project will be conductedinthree phasesrepresentingdifferentscales for the assessmento f
soil carbon sequestration. DuringPhase I,apilot studywill be conducted to primarily collect


                                                 - 39 -

ground data from selectedsites representing different landuse types and calibrate models from
that through remote sensingwhich will beusedinall phases o fthe project. InPhase 11, the study
will beextendedto the Shetsky Rayonwhere knowledge acquired inPhaseIwill be subsequently
applied. The regional carbon balanceand soil carbon sequestration will be assessed for the
Rayon. PhaseI11will test the models developed inPhases Iand I1on other territories within
Kazakhstanandthe results will beextrapolated to other similar ecoystemsinthe region.

3.1 Financing
The component will be financed bythe GEF, the Global Mechanism, project beneficiaries and
the Government o fKazakhstan.

ProjectComponent4 US$0.85 million
                    -
Replication Strategy and PublicAwareness

4.1 ReplicationStrategy
The component would carrying out a replication strategy and a public awarenessand capacity
building activities at the local (Shetsky Rayon), national andregional level, Capacity buildingat
the national levelwould includedisseminating the benefits o fnewly introduced technologies
such as carbon sequestration, biodiversityconservation, sustainable increaseo fincome. The
Project Management Unitwould undertake such activities inactive collaboration with local and
national agencies, includingNGOs. The project will target the following stakeholder groups:

   Primary Stakeholders           InstitutionalStakeholders      Other Stakeholders
   Individualfarmers              Local agencies: Department     Mass media
                                  o fAericulture. Akimat
  Fanning Partnerships           National authorities: Research NGO'S
                                 Institutes, Politicians
  Localpublic officials and      Regional Institutions:         International Donors:
  community leaders                                             GEF, GM
   Local householders

Public awareness campaignat local level: At the Local Level the public awarenesscampaign
will definf the problems and solutions o fthe project site and make dzar the role o fthe different
stakeholders inthe project. The project will develop a three-step approachto the public
communication strategy and a layering o fthe message so that the targeted audiences recognize
the importance o fadopting environment-fiiendly landuse systems for the life o ftheir
communities, and all agencies involvedas credible and expert resources. The first step involve
the identificationand recruiting o fexperts, preparationo fmaterials, etc. The second step will be
an informationalcampaign aimed at raisingthe interest o fthe target groups, while the third step
will reinforce andconsolidate the behaviors suggestedandconcentrate onreplicationefforts
basedonthe results achieved.

Public awareness campaign and replicationstrategy at nationallevel A broad, nationwide
public information campaign will be undertakento disseminate the benefits o fproposedproject
activities. One o fthe objectives o fthe public awarenessplan is leveraging or extendingthe
efforts and impact o fthis public education effort bypro-actively enabling other entities to


                                                   -40-

connect to this planand utilize its concepts and messagesintheir communications efforts. The
delivery o fthe national media campaignwill be done by a specialized PNMedia Agency to be
contracted underthe grant. The Ministries o f Environmental Protection and Agriculture will
organize additional PR activities and events.

At the locallevel, the project willbuildcapacity inenvironment-related technical farming skills,
indeveloping alternative income-generating activities inthe villages, as well as incommunity
level managemento f the environment.      At the nationallevel, the project will buildcapacity to
better manage environmental issues, while at the regionallevel (Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and
Mongolia, andto a lesser extent Russia andChina) the project would promote an inter-change o f
experiencesand thus buildcapacity indealing with problems o f landdegradation inthe region.

The project wouldprovide for the organization ofregional workshops, field trips, training,
publicationininternational agriculture and environmental journals and other activities to
promote replicationo fproject activities inother countries inthe region. The pilot activity will
aimto serve as amodel to be replicated inthese countries, which will help contribute to a
reduction indesertification and increasedcarbon sequestration.These activities will be
concentrated inthe last three years o fthe project to inform and train the participants on the
results achieved. The organization o fthese international events couldbepart o f the assignment of
a PWMediaAgency contracted for the purpose.

4.2 Financing
The component will be financedbythe GEF andthe Government o fKazakhstan.

ProjectComponent5 US$0.73 million
                     -
Project ManagementUnit

The existingProject PreparationUnitwill evolve into aProject ManagementUnit(PMU),
comprising a Project Manager, Financial ManagemenV'Procurement Specialist and
Administrative Assistant. The PMUwill be located inAstana. Inaddition, an accountant and
two technical specialists (for the management o f abandonedcereal lands andmanagement o f
degradedpasturesandrangelands) will be basedinAksu-Ayuli, inoffices and accommodation to
beprovidedbythe &Aimo f Shetsky Rayon. This would alsohelpform a strop2working
partnership with the local administrative staff, local farmers and other stakeholders. The Project
Manager will sharehis time between the Astana andAksu-Ayuli offices andthe administrative
staff will assist inthe Aksu-Ayulioffice as required.

The PMUwill have overallresponsibility for project implementation andwill handle
procurement, all financial matters relatingto disbursements, maintenance o fproject accounts and
financial monitoring, as well as the monitoringand evaluation o fall project activities. Itwill
coordinate the implementation o f activities bythe differentlocal andnational agencies, including
the fieldagencies o fM O A and MEP. The Project Manager will report to the Chairman o fthe
Project Steering Committee, i.e. the Vice-Minister, MEP. The PMUwill also be responsible for
project monitoringandreporting.




                                                -41 -

Governance. The implementational arrangements agreed upon demonstrate the project's emphasis
on decentralized responsibility for project management. The project emphasizes capacity building o f
agencies at the local level involved inproject implementation as well as farmers which will help not
only to build local ownership, but also ensure transparency as well as sustainability o f project
activities. The project design incoprorates lessons leamed to create the best conditions for a good
governance o f grants awarded to farmers and other beneficiaries under the project. Throughthe
implementation o f competitive grant programs inmany countries o f the region, procedures for
procurement, disbursement and financial management o f small-value grants have been strengthened
and laid out inseveral training manuals as "good practices" by specialists at the World Bank.
Relevant staff inthe PMU, as well as local institutions involved with project implementation, will be
trained in such "good practices" to ensure that there i s a good governance mechanism inplace to
oversee grant implementation. Regular monitoring provided for under the project will also be
instrumental in ensuringgood governance.

                                          Organizational Chart


                                                             MEP
                                                               I
                             Akimats           -    Steering Commitee -
                                                               I
                                                                                           MOA
                                                               I
                                                               I
                                                             PMU
                                 /                             I
                                                               I
                                                   Othei Stakeholders
                                                                   I
                                /                          I       I
     Producer Partnerships            DairyAssociations             BalkhshSut Dairy            MOARepresentation:
        I                                                                                   - I
                                                                                            \
         Live Stock Bazaar              6 Milk Diaries             Demonstration Trials             Farmers

    5.1 Financing
    The component will be financed by the GEF, the Global Mechanisms, and the Government of
    Kazakhstan.




                                                   - 42 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                          KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT

                                                                                                                     Foreign                   Total
                                                                                                                    US $million           US $million
                                                                                                                         0.66                    4.64
initial Service Support to Producer Groups                                                         0.99                  0.10                     1.09
Quantificationof CarbonSequestration and Monitoring                                                0.50                  0.62                     1.12
Replication Strategy and Public Awareness                                                          0.53                  0.18                    0.71
Project Management-Unit                                                                            0.52                  0.09                    0.61
rota1Baseline Cost                                                                                 6.52                   1.65                    8.17
 Physical Contingencies                                                                            0.65                  0.17                    0.82
 Price Contingencies                                                                               0.59                   0.12                    0.71
                                         Total Proiect Costs1                                      7.76                   1.94                   9.70
                                                                                                                I                      1
                                 Total Financing Required                                          7.76                   1.94                    9.70

                                                                                                  Local               Foreign                  Total
                         Project Cost By Category                                              US $million          US $million            US $million
Works                                                                                                                         0.00                    0.30
Goods                                                                                                                         0.86                    4.59
Consultant Services                                                                                                           0.84                    2.04
Training                                                                                                                      0.18                    0.34
Operating Costs                                                                                      2.37                     0.06                    2.43
                                                        Total ProjectCosts1                          7.76                      1.94                   9.70
                                                Total Financing Required                             7.76                      1.94                   9.70
Taxes are approximately US$0.88m.
  1
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net o f taxes, is 9.7 (US$m). Therefore. the project cost sharing ratio is 54.33% of
  total project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                    -43-

                       Annex 4- Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT

The Incremental Cost Analysis for the project has beenprepared and presented inAnnex 11.




                                              -44-

                              Annex 5: FinancialSummary
                   KAZAKHSTAN: DRYLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                    Years Ending
                                     on June 30


                       IYear1  I Year2 I Year3 I Year4 I    Year5  IYear6  IYear7 I
Total FinancingRequired
Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts          1.o        1.7       1.8     1.5     0.9     0.4    0.0
 Recurrent Costs           0.3        0.4       0.5     0.6     0.3     0.3    0.0
Total ProjectCosts         1.3        2.1       2.3     2.1     1.2     0.7    0.0
Total Financing             1.3       2.1       2.3     2.1     1.2     0.7    0.0
Financing
   IBRDADA                 0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
  Government               0.5        0.4       0.4     0.4     0.3    0.4     0.0
      Central              0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
      Provincial           0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
   Go-financiersGEF        0.5        1.1       1.5     1.3     0.7    0.2     0.0
Beneficiaries              0.3        0.5       0.4     0.4     0.2    0.1     0.0
Global Mechanism                      0.1




Total ProjectFinancing      1.3       2.1       2.3     2.1     1.2    0.7     0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                         -45-

                  Annex 6: Procurementand DisbursementArrangements
                  KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENT PROJECT

Procurement

ProcurementMethods(see Table A)
The procurement o fgoods andworks would be conducted inaccordancewith the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement underIBRDloans and IDA Credits, January 1995,revised January
andAugust 1996, September 1997 andJanuary 1999. ConsultingServices and training would be
procured inaccordancewith the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World bank Borrowers, January 1997,revisedSeptember 1997,January 1999 and May 2002.
The Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments; StandardRequest for Proposal; etc., will be used. A
General Procurement Notice (GPN) has beenpublishedinthe U.NDevelopment Business in
March2003.

Procurement financed by cofinanciers includingthe Government o f Kazakhstanwill be
conducted inaccordance with the respective cofinaciers procedures.

Responsibility
The MEP would establish a small Project Management Unit (PMU) inAstana, comprising a
Project Manager, a Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist, a FinancialManagement Specialist and a
Procurement Specialist, Administrative Assistant andtwo drivers. The PMUwill handle
procurement, financial matters relatingto disbursements, maintenance ofproject accounts and
financial monitoring, the monitoringand evaluation of all project activities. Itwill co-ordinate
the implementation of activities by the differentlocal and national agencies, including the field
agencies o fM O A and MEP. The PMUhas initially been established as a Project Preparation
Unit(PPU) comprising Project Manager, Financial Management/ Procurement Specialist and
Office Manager. The Project Manager would report to the Chairman o fthe Steering Committee,
the Vice-Minister, MEP. A Project Technical Committee (PTC) will also be establishedto help
the PMU intechnical matters.

Training inprocurement according to the bank policies and procedureswould be provided during
the project !aunch workshop to the PMU staff. The PMU director and &hetechnical staff o fthe
PPUwould also receive training inprocurement, enabling themto back up the procurement
officer inhislher responsibilities o f conducting and coordinating project procurement. The PMU
procurement specialist has already attendeda procurement training course inTurin, Italy.

ProcurementArrangement
The thresholds byprocurement arrangementfor each category are summarized below. The
allocation ofproject costs byprocurement arrangementsare set out intable A, the value o f
contracts for prior review intable B.




                                                -46-

Goods
Goods and equipmentestimated to cost US$lOO,OOO eachor more maybe procured onthe basis
o fICB. Goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO eachmaybe procuredthrough
International Shopping onthe basis o fthree written quotations from two different countries.
Small contracts for suppliesandminor equipment estimated to cost lessthan US$50,000 each
may be procured under National Shopping onthe basis o fthree writtenprice quotations fiom
local suppliers.The project contains technical services contracts eachestimated to cost less that
US$50,000, which will follow the National Shopping procedures,

Direct Contracting. Different kindso f seeds that would be required duringthe project
implementation periodare available only from the Karaganda Institute andthese would,
therefore, be procuredon a direct contracting basis. This amount i s expectedto cost less than
US$223,000.

Communityp a ~ i c ~ a t i oinnprocurement. Field operations which include support to farmers to
reproduce specific seeds and the procurement by or distributionto other farmers estimated to cost
US$1.8 millionwill be implemented inaccordancewith a Manualprepared by the PPUunder
provisions o fparagraph 3.15 o fthe Guidelines.

Consultant Services and Training

Fixed Budget SelectionProcedure. Consultant Contract for public awareness campaign and
capacity buildingshall be procured through the FixedBudget Selection Process(FB).

SelectionBased on Consultants~ u a l i ~ c ~ t i o n s Contracts for consulting services, such as
                                                   (C@.
audit services, estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract maybe procured usingthe
selection basedon consultants qualifications (CQ).

Individual Consultants(IC). Consultant services will be procuredthrough Individual Consultant
procedures inaccordancewith Part V o fthe Consultant Guidelines. The assignments for
individual consultants will be advertised when possible, and selection will be made onthe basis
o fcomparison o fqualifications and experience.

SoleSourcing. The only provider o fconsulting services with the requiredexpertise and
experience for carbon sequestrationestimations including soil sampling, analysis, and modeling,
i s the Shortandy Institute. This contract, therefore, shall be subject to the sole sourcing process,
This amount is expectedto cost lessthan US$143,000.

Training.For other training activities, a detailed training program will be prepared on a
six-month basis and submitted to the Bank for approval before implementation.

Incremental Operating Costs
The project will finance aportiono fincremental operating costs. Incremental Operating Costs
will be procured onthe basis o fannual budgets to be agreedwith the World Bankbefore
implementation.



                                                 -47-

  Procurementmethods(TableA)


                      Table A. Project(US$ by ProcurementArrangements
                                       Costs
                                          millionequivalent)

                                                  Procurement MethodI
      ExpenditureCategory            ICB              NCB        Other2   N.B.F. Total Cost
1.wori                              0.00              0.00        0.00     0.30    0.30
               ~



                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)
2. Goods                             1.50             0.00        1.20     1.80    4.50
                                    (1.50)           (0.00)      (0.80)   (0.00)   (2.30)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00        1.70     0.70     2.40
Consultant (including audits)       (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.65)   (0.00)   (1.65)
4. Training                          0.00             0.00        0.40     0.00     0.40
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.32)   (0.00)   (0.32)
5. IncrementalOperating Costs        0.00             0.00        2.00     0.00     2.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.OO)   (0.00)   (1.OO)
   Total                             1.50             0.00        5.30     2.80     9.60
                                    (1.50)           (0.00)      (3.77)   (0.00)   (5.27)




                                              -48-

                    Table AI: Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional)
                                      (US$ millionequivalent)

                                                    Selection Method
  Consultant Services
 ExpenditureCategory    QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS        CQ      Other    N.B.F.  ~ ~ b l ~ ~ ~ t )
A. Firms                 0.00      0.00      0.85     0.00       0.06    0.00      0.00      0.9 1
                        (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)
B. Individuals           0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       1.16    0.00      0.00      1.16
                        (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)
                  Total  0.00      0.00      0.85     0.00       1.22    0.00      0.00      2.07
                        (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)


         Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
              QBS = Quality-based Selection
              SFB = Selection under a FixedBudget
              LCS = Least-CostSelection
              CQ = Selection Basedon Consultants'Qualifications
              Other = Selectionof individualconsultants(per SectionV of ConsultantsGuidelines),Commercial
              Practices,etc.
              N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
              Figuresin parenthesesare the amounts to befinanced bythe Bank Grant.




                                               -49-

      Prior reviewthresholds (Table B)
     Withrespectto goods andwork, priorreview bythe bank ofprocurement documentationwill be
     carried out for :


     0        All ICB
     0        FirstIS andN S contracts (for goods andtechnical services)

     For each contract estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, after the technical proposal has been
     evaluated, the technical evaluation report will be submittedto the World bank for its reviewprior
     to the opening of the pricedproposals. For contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more, the
     Bank will be notified o f the results o f the technical proposals. For contracts with individual
     consultants estimated to cost US$lO,OOO or more, the qualifications, experience, terms o f
     reference, and terms o f employment shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval
     prior to contract signature. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post reviewbythe Bank.

                      Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review        '

                                      Contract Value                                    ContractsSubject to
                                        Threshold                 Procurement              Prior Review
       ExpenditureCategory            (US$ thousands)                Method                (US$ millions)
      1.Works                                                                                    0

      2. Goods                           >I=100                        ICB                     1.500
                                           4 0 0                        I S                    0.100
                                            <50                         N S                    0.050

      3. Services                          <loo                    FBandCQ                     0.9 10
                                            >10                         Ind                    1.ooo
      Training                             NIA              Bi-annual trainingprogram
      4. Incremental                       NIA                   Annual Budgets                  -
      Operating Costs



                                     Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment

                                                      High

     Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
     procurementsupervision for post-reviewlaudits)
      One every six months duringthe first year o f implementation and thenon an annual basis
     (includes special procurement supervision for post-reviewlaudits). One infive contracts will be
      subject to Bank's ex-post review.



I The PPU should have a separatequalified andexperienced procurement specialist.                       I
                                                     - 50 -

    The PPU director, andthe procurement staff should attend at least one Bank organized procurement
    seminar inKazakhstanor inthe region. The PPUprocurement specialist should attend a suitable
    training course inTurin, Italy, organizedjointly bythe Bank and ILO, within six months o fthe grant
    effectiveness.
    The PPU should be responsible for keepingup-to-date projectrecords, including procurement
    records. A separatefile should be openedfor eachcontract package and all procurement
    correspondence and relevant documents such as draft andfinal biddingdocuments, minuteso fbid
    opening, evaluation reports, minutes o f contract negotiations, draft RFPs, draft and final contracts,
    andbids, should all bekepttogether for eachproject inthe folder
    The PPU should create a computerized procurement monitoring system to keep track o fprocurement
    activities and to generateperiodic progressreports onprocurement activities, which are requiredto
    be submittedto the Bank and other concernedgovernment officials and agencies.
    The PPU should prepare a contract approval and signature procedure as well as a contract
    administration plan and submititto the Bank for review and acceptance. Any bottlenecks in
    contract approval procedure and weaknessesand contract administration procedures should be
    removed.
2. Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) or CountryProcurement Strategy Paper
   Status: CPAR dated June 2000.
3. Are the biddingdocuments for the Drocurementactions o fthe first vear readv bvnegotiations? Yes
                  Y




4. Estimated date o fProject Launchworkshop: July 2003
5. Estimated date o f General Procurement Notice publication: March 2003
6. Indicate ifcontracts are subject to mandatory SPN inDevelopment Business: N o
7. Domestic Preferencefor Goods: Yes
8. Domestic preference for Works: No
9. Retroactive Financing: N o
10. Advanced mocurement: N o
11.Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progresswill be
monitored through progress reports and supervision missions. At least one supervision missionevery
six months duringthe first year o fthe implementation andthen on an annual basiswill include a
procurement specialist. Shehe will be responsible for updating the procurement plan, and conducting
ex-post reviews. Hisher findings will be included inthe supervisiop reports for monitoring their
implementation.

12. Indicate the name o fProcurement Staff as part o fthe Project Team:
NaushadA. Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist               Division: ECSSD            Ext: 32699
13. Explain briefly the expected role o fthe field office inProcurement:
The project officer assignedto this project would play an importantrole o fmonitoring the procurement
process, and also, serve as an intermediary between the headquartersand the PPU. The TTL andthe
procurement specialist for this project are basedinAlmaty. They will work closely with the project
officer basedinAstana to ensure effective andtimely implementationo fthe project.


        'Thresholds generallydiffer bycountryand project. ConsultOD 11.04"Review of Procurement
          Documentation"and contactthe RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.



                                                         -51-

Disbursement

Allocationof grantproceeds(Table C)
The allocation o fGrant proceeds is inTable C and indicates Bank financing byexpenditure
category. The Project will be executedover aperiodo f five years duringwhich the full Grant
amount o fUS$5.27 millionwill be disbursed. Activities underthe Project are expected to be
completed by September 2008 andthe expected closing date for the Project will be March 31,
2009 after which no disbursements will bemade.

Itwas agreedthat the Project will initiallyusetraditionaldisbursementprocedures(direct
payments, reimbursements and replenishments to the Special Account with full documentation or
SOEs) andFinancialMonitoringReports (FMR) that the financial managementsystemmightbe
re-assessed inend-2005 for the eligibility for FMR-baseddisbursements.

                                  Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

         ExpenditureCategory                [ Amount in US$million       1         FinancingPercentage
1. Goods                                                2.30                100%of foreign and ex-factory, and
                                                                                         84% of local
2. Consulting services(including                        1.65                   Firms 81%, individuals 84%
audits)                                                                       100%of eligible social charges
13.Training                                 I           0.32             I                    100%               I
4. Incremental Operating Costs                          1.oo                   80% untilDecember31,2005
                                                                                        60% thereafter
                                                                              100%of eligible social charges

Total ProjectCosts                                      5.27
Total                                                   5.27
Consultingservices: includes funds for the public awareness program that mightbe let as service contracts with
NGOs andor media agencies.
Consultingservices can also cover 100%of social charges

Useof statements of expenditures (SOEs):

Statement ol' Expenditure (SOE) would be usedfor:
(i)goodsestimatedtocostlessthanUS$lOO,OOO percontract;
(ii)firmscontractscostinglessthanUS$50,000;
(iii)individualconsultantcontractscostinglessthanUS$25,000;
(iv) training; and
(v) incremental recurrent costs.

 Fulldocumentationto support expenditures wouldberetainedbyille PMUfor the life ofthe
 project. This information would be available for review during supervision byBank staff, and
 for annual audits, which will be required to specifically comment on the propriety o f SOE
 disbursementsandthe quality ofthe associatedrecord keeping. Invoices supporting
 disbursementsagainst SOEs should be kept for at least one year after the Bankhas receivedthe
 last audit reportunderthe grant.


                                                      - 52 *

 Specialaccount:
Duringthe periodofpreparationofthe Project, inorder to facilitate disbursements, the borrower
has openedandmaintained a SpecialAccount (SA) with Kazkommertsbank onterms and
conditions acceptableto the Bank. When the Project i s effective the SA will be kept at a level
sufficient to meet payments to contractors, suppliersandconsultants. The initial allocation to
the SA would be US$200,000 andthe ceiling would be US$400,000. Fundsfrom the Special
Account will be disbursed for eligible expenditures only, and wili be replenished bythe Bank
uponreceipt o fthe relevant withdrawal applications. Replenishment applications should be
submittedon a monthlybasis, andmustincludereconciled bank statementsas well as other
appropriate supporting documents. The special account will be audited annually byindependent
auditors and the audit report submittedto the World Bank for reviewand approval within six
monthafter the end o fthe Government's fiscal year.

PROJECT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

Project Accounting
The P M U i s fully incharge o f all financial management aspects o f the Project. A financial management
system (FMSys), including accounting, reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing and proper internal
control systems has been developed. The "1C" software system has been procured and modified to
include budgeting and reporting functions to meet Bankrequirements.

The PMU includes the Project manager, financial management Iprocurement specialist (dual role),
secretaryiinterpreter and driver.       The P M U will maintain all documentation related to Project
expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices. The P M U will
be mainly responsible for keeping the accounting records o f the Project, in charge o f all payments,
operating the accounting software, handling both the Special Account (SA), and the two Tenge Project
Accounts (or TPA - one for Government contributions in Tenge; one to transfer Bank funds from USD
SA for local expenditures), prepare all bidding documents, reporting both to the Bank and the
Government, planning, budgeting, disbursement and auditing.

During the initial stages o f the project, the financial managementiprocurement specialist will be
responsible for the planning, budgeting, consolidation and reporting aspects, handle all financial
accounting records, ensure that accountingrecords are kept upto date inthe accountin? software and will
be in charge o f the petty cash arrangements. Helshe will also establish permanent contacts with the
beneficiaries, the Bank, accounting departments o f the relevant ministries, auditors and the Ministry o f
Finance.   An accountant will be hired and will primarily handle the accounting function for the
Aksu-Ayuli office activities.

The P M U staff will be responsible for: preparing the biddingdocuments; receive the offers and evaluate
them in accordance with the WB regulations; submit the evaluations to the WE3 for no objection; sign
contracts inan acceptable format; supervise the works performed by the contractors; certify (jointly with
the beneficiaries' representatives) the acceptance o f the goods, works and services provided in
accordance with the terms o f reference and the relevant technical specifications.           The payment
documents will be prepared by the P M U only after the fulfillment o f the above steps. The sole signing
authority for the P M U rests with Zeinulla Sursimbaev, Chief o f Municipal Committee o f Environmental
Protection.




                                                   -53-

A financial management consultant company developed the financialmanagement systemfor the Project,
inaccordance with the Bank`sOPlBP 10.02. The systemfeatures acustomizedaccounting software fully
responsive to the Project needs. The financial management Iprocurement specialist o f the PPU i s the
primary operator o f the software, with the PPUdirector responsible for authorizing all payments.

The FM consultant company assisted the PPU in finalizing the implementation and inputtingthe final
cost estimates in the system. The software manual for "1C" has been provided and i s used by the
financial management Iprocurement specialist. The financial management manual has been prepared by
the financial management Iprocurement specialist. The manual documents the accounting procedures,
internal controls and measures to ensure a segregation o f duties (where possible) and avoid potential
conflict o f interest.

The PPU staff, along with the FM consultant, developed a specific chart o f accounts, detailed financial
statements, reporting formats and methods, internal control procedures, disbursement and flow o f funds
arrangements, and assigned staff responsibilities inorder to ensure a complete segregation o fduties. The
P M U will be fully in charge o f recording and consolidating all payments, procurement, contracting,
disbursement, reporting, accounting, planning, budgeting and auditing relating to the Project. No Project
funds can be transferred directly to beneficiaries or any other parties, outside the Project's documented
framework. Detailed accounts will be kept for each Project component and its sub-components. The
accounts will also reflect: the status o f payment against each contract; utilization o f the Special Account
(SA) and replenishments made by the Bank, the amounts used from the Government contribution and
other donors, andstatements o f sources and application o f funds.

The P M U will maintain the Project accounts on the cash basis o f accounting.             The P M U will be
responsible for preparing FMRs and statements o f expenses (SOEs) and submittingthem to the World
Bank, no later than 45 days after each quarter's end.

AccountingSofwure
The features o f the financial management software used include, inter alia, customizable chart o f
accounts, foreign and local currency, English and Russian language, Excel and Word exporting, and
integratedFMRs. The software manual i s baseduponthe basic (off-the-shelf) "1C"enterprise package.

All project financial and accounting documents will be properly recorded and filed separately by the
PMU, keeping a clear linkage with the software records.

The system has been customized LO respond to the Project components and specifics and will be able to
produce routine reports such as: trial balance, general ledger, balance sheet, income and expenditure
statement by sources o f funds, cash flow, general journal, suppliers' ledger, various budgets, etc. Also,
all the Financial Monitoring Reports ("FMRs") will be produced bythe system.

The P M U will keep full accounting records o f the Project and the system will allow this to be done by
Project components and sub-components as well as by each financing source (WB, Government
contribution, and other donors as applicable). The PMU will report to the World Bank and to the
Government o f Kazakhstan.

A detailed FMmanual o f accounting procedures relevant to the Project has been prepared by the FM I
Procurement specialist. The manual documents the accounting procedures, internal controls and
measures to ensure a segregation o f duties (to the extent possible) and avoid any potential conflict o f
interest. All accounting entries will be kept in the foreign currency as well as in the Kazakhstani



                                                    -54-

currency, Tenge.

The P M U will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses o f funds by
source, summary of withdrawals andstatements o f progress achieved to date. The format of the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be agreed upon and the FMRs will be fully customized and included in
the software. Ifthe Government would decide to move to FMR-based disbursement, the systemwould be
expanded to produce other reports, such as cash forecasts and the objectives for the forthcoming quarter
and semester.

ProjectAccounts and CashManagement
The Grant Agreement will be signed byrepresentativeso fthe World Bank andthe Ministryo f

MOEBP - `grants recipientlcoordinator'. The Government will then assignthe Ministryo f
Economy and BudgetPlanning (formerly Ministryo fEconomy and Trade), otherwise knownas

Environment Protection (MEP; formerly Ministryo fNatural Resourcesand Environment
Protection or MNREP) as an implementingagency, giving full rightsto the MEP to use the grant
proceeds. Based onthe Ministerial Order issued, the MEPhas already empoweredthe existing
PPU (which is to becomethe P M U after granteffectiveness) to fully operate anduse the grant
proceeds. PMU will access the grant proceedsthrough the Special Account, openedat
Kazakhstani commercial bank - Kazkommertsbank. Fundsfrom the SA will also be transferred
to the Tenge Project Account, which will allow conversion o fUSDto Tenge to facilitate
payment to local contractors. A separate sub-account inUSDwill be opened at the
Kazkommertsbank to receive the interest from the SA and cover bank chargesfor the SA.

The beneficiaries (associationsof farmers I local civil authorities or Akimat) will contribute in
cashor in-kind.The PMUwill assign a monetary value to in-kindcontributions and will account
for it inthe project accounting records. Audits will reviewa sample o fin-kindcontributions,
comprising their the appropriatenesso fmonetary value estimations.

All sources offinancing for the Project willbereflected separatelyinthe accounting system. All
the relevant financial accounting documents (invoices, contracts, payment orders, bank
statements, etc.) will be recorded and kept at the PMU.

Signingprocedures are inplace which require the financial managementl procurement specialist
or PPU director to obtain authorization from the Chief o fMunicipal Committee o f
Environmental Protections when operating the above accounts.

Withrespectto cashmanagement, the PMUwill develop sound cashforecasting andmonthly
planningprocedures. Amounts kept inTenge (both amountsheldinbanks andcashonhand)
will beheld at aminimumlevel to avoidthe risko fpossible future devaluation.

Flow of funds
As notedabove, the PMUmust obtain authorization from the ChiefofMunicipalCommittee of
EnvironmentalProtectionfor operating all the above-mentioned bank accounts. Everyinvoice
received bythe PMUwill be checked for its accuracyprior to submission for authorization and
split into the net invoice amount andtaxes. The PMUwill then execute the payments from each
financing source inaccordance with the financing agreement.


                                                 - 55 -

The beneficiaries will also contribute to the Project, either incashor inkind. Eachbeneficiary
will signa financing agreementwith the PMU. This will detail the rightsand obligations o feach
party. Incase when the beneficiary will contribute incash, its cashcontributionwill have to be
deposited ina bank account and abank statementprovingthis will be attachedto the agreement.
When the contributionwill be inkindthe financing agreementwill detail the mechanism for
quantifyingthe inkindcontributioninmonetary terms, andwill mentionthe natureofthe inkind
contribution(land, labor, raw materials, consumables, transportation, etc).

Once the agreement i s signed andthe beneficiary's contributionagreed, the PMUwill start
executing payments for the relevant sub-component activities, as invoices are received from the
suppliers. These invoices will be firstjointly certified by the PMUand the beneficiary's
representatives, inorder to ensure that all the relevant goods were delivered, works done and
servicesrendered, as per the technical specifications and terms o freference. Inaddition, all other
Project beneficiaries will be responsible for closely co-operating with the PMUon the financial
managementaspectso fthe Project resources, underthe respective Project components inwhich
they will participate.

Internal Controls
The PMUwill adhereto soundinternal controlproceduresandpractices, to ensure that the
Project &nds are usedwith economy and efficiency and only for the purposes intended.The
PMUwill report to the Project Steering Committee andto relevant Vice-Ministers (MEP and
MOA) and will inform ina timelymanner about Project implementation and progress. The PMU
staff structure agreed(manager, financial managementI procurement specialist) i s perceived as
able to ensurea complete segregation o fduties and to avoid any conflict o f interest. Where
potential conflict o f interest exists with dual role o f financialmanagement I procurement
specialist, the Project Manager will review and approve relevant documentation.

All PMU staffmustbecome familiar with the World Bankregulations (legal, disbursement,
procurement, financial management, etc) applicable to their relevant area. A Financial
Management Manualhas beendevelopedjointly bythe financial managementI procurement
specialist, documenting various types o f financialtransactions, approval and authorization steps,
the flow o f documents within the PMU andbetweerithe PMUand the beneficiaries, the
accounting departmentso fthe relevant ministries and MOF (note: the MOF has not established
mandatory obligationto submit reports; PMU submitsreport on expenditures by component
whenrequestedbyMOF; reportconsistent with submission to MEP I MOA), PMU's staff
responsibilities and measuresensuring complete segregation o f duties, plusother internal control
procedures. Inaddition to the above manual, the PMUmust follow the procedures set upinthe
Project's Operational Manual. The PMU staffwill enhancethe manuals by documenting the
day-to-day internal detailed procedures for eachtype o factivity (such as correspondence
handling,contracting andpayment procedures, operation ofallbankaccounts, pettycash
procedures, authorization mechanism, reporting, filing, etc.)

Auditing
Annual audits for the project accounts will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelinesfor



                                                  - 56 -

Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank. The audit reports
will be in a format in accordance with the Intemational Standards on Auditing promulgated by
the International Federation o f Accountants (IFAC). The audit reports will include a separate
opinion on the operation o f the Special Accounts and on disbursements made on the basis o f
SOEs. The audited financial statements, including the audit of the special accounts, and SOEs
will be sent to the Bankwithin six (6) months ofthe endofthe Government's fiscal year.
The PMU will have the project accounts audited (including special and project accounts and all
statements o f expenditures) inaccordancewith Intemational Standards on Auditing, by a firm of
independent auditors acceptableto the World Bank.

The cost o fthe Project audits will be financed byWorld Bank GEF proceeds.

Financial Management Reports (FMR's) for Disbursement
Itwas agreedthat the Project willinitially usetraditional disbursementprocedures(direct
payments, reimbursements and replenishments to the Special Account with full documentation or
SOEs) andproduce FMRs for reporting and management information only andnot for
disbursementpurposes. Itwas also agreedthat the FMsystemwill be re-assessed inend-2004
for the eligibility for FMR-based disbursements. Then, the Borrower, jointly with the Bank, will
reviewthe possibilityo f disbursingonthe basis o fFMRs.




                                                - 57-

                             Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                   KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT


 Project Schedule                                      Planned                      Actual
/Timetaken to preparethe project(months)             18                           32
/FirstBank mission(identification)          II       0311012000          II       0312512000    II
Appraisal missiondeparture                           0311512003                   0312512003
 Negotiations                                        0611512003                   0411112003
 Planned Dateof Effectiveness                        0911512003

Preparedby:
See below for World Bank staff and consultants. Consultants from the Project Preparationunit
who contributed to produce the report include: Sadyk Bakhtiyar, JohnCole, KeithOpenshaw,
AgherimMalik, Gulmira Akshatyrova.

Peer Reviewers:
Francois Le Gal (AFTR2)
Benoit Bosquet (ECSSD)
Zharas Takenov (UNDP, Almaty)

Preparationassistance:


Bank staff who worked on the Droiect included:
        Name                                        Speciality
Maurizio Guadagni                     Task Team Leader
Bulat Utkelov                         Co-Task TeamLeader
Jitendra Srivastava                   Technical
Meeta Sehgal                          Technical
NaushadKhan                           Procurement
RoqueArdon                            Financial Management
AllenWazny                            Financial Management
 Stan Peabody                         Social
Andrea Pape-Christiansen              Social
Rohan Selvarathnam                    Project Costs
HannahKoilpillai                      Disbursement
Kairat Nazhmidenov                    FinancialAnalysis
Mazjory-Anne Bromhead                 Quality Assurance




                                              - 58 -

                           Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
                 KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
Preparedand ready for discussion with Government o fKazakhstan

B. Bank Staff Asses$ments



C. Other
Working Papers:

Working Paper 1:       Baseline Socioeconomic & Diagnostic Survey.The questionnaires
addressedand analyzed the following issues:
               Socio-demographic characteristics o fthe residents inthe project area
               Economic status ofthe subjects
               Distributiono f land and landuse
               State o fthe main directions o f agricultural production
               State o fproduction and social infrastructure
               Sourceof income, income level and quality o flife
               State o f socio-cultural services for the population
               Perceptions of the innovations related to the project andwillingness to participate
               inthe project.
Working Paper 2:       Economic Background Data and Overview o fFarming Systems inShetsky
                 Rayon and Project Area
Working Paper 3:       LandUse Data for ShetskyRayonandProject Area
Working Paper4:        Revegetation Program for Abandoned Ploughed Lands &
TrialiDemonstration Program
Working Paper 5:       Management o f Degraded Pasturesand Rangelands
Working Paper 6:        Seed Production Program
Working Paper 7:       Evaluationof Potential Impact of Regeneration Program a+Farm-level and
Monitoring Program
Working Paper 8:       Tree and Shrub Planting & Watering PastureProgram
Working Paper 9:       Assistance Program to producer groups for marketinglivestock and
agriculture products
Working Paper 10:      Evaluation, Economical & Financialanalysis o fdifferent LandUse
systems
Working Paper 11: Remote Sensing& Modelling for Monitoringo f Carbon Sequestration
Working Paper 12:      Quantification and Monitoring o f Soil Carbon
Working Paper 13:      Monitoringo fBio-Diversity
Working Paper 14:      Designo fPublic Awareness Campaign, Capacity Building& Replication
Strategy
Working Paper 15:      Oblast & Rayon Forestry Services andProject Management Unit
Working Paper 16:      Operational Manual for RevegetationProgram


                                                 - 59 -

Working Paper 17:       Operational Manual for SeedProduction Program
Working Paper 18:       Operational Manual for organising agriculture partnerships, milk
collectioncenters & agriculture market
Working Paper 19:       Operational Manual Assessment o f carbon sequestration
Working Paper 20:       Financial Management Manual
Working Paper 21: Designo fProject Monitoring System
Working Paper 22:       Environmental Assessment, Management Plan(EMP) and Incremental
Cost Analysis

*Includingelectronicfiles

                                     Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                              KAZAKHSTAN: DRYLANDSMANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                        06-Feb-2003
                                                                                                                 Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                         and actual
                                                              OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursement;
ProjectID   N Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig   F n Rev'd
PO46045     2001 SYR DARYACONTROUNO.ARAL SEA                64.50       0.00                        0.00     59.86       2.70       0.00
PO65414     2000 ELECTRANSREHAB                            140.00       0.00                        0.00     123.51     84.61       0.00
PO08499     1999 ROADTRANSP. RESTRUC                       100.00       0.00                        0.00     22.86      11.20       0.00
PO08500     1999 AplRAU PILOTWATER                          16.50       0.00                        0.00      5.06       4.58       0.00
PO08503     1998 AG POST PRlVASST (APL#I)                   15.00       0.00                        0.00       1.92      1.92       0.00
PO08507     1997 UZENOILFIELD REHAB                         109.00      0.00                        0.00     40.03      40.03     20.34
PO08510     1996 IRRIG8 DRAINAGE                            80.00       0.00                        0.00      15.76     14.10       0.00

                                                 Total:   525.00       0.00                         0.00     269.42     159.15     20.34




                                                       KAZAKHSTAN
                                                   STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                               HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                        JU 30 - 2002
                                                     InMillionsUSDollars

                                                                          Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                       IFC                                     IFC
     FY Approval            Company                             Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic
     1994195198             "AMROKazak                          0.00       2.57      0.00       0.00    0.00       2.57        0.00      0.00
     2000                   FIOC                                0.00        0.01     0.00       0.00    0.00        0.01       0.00      0.00
                            IK                                  7.49        0.00     0.00       0.00    7.49        0.00       0.00      0.00
     1998                   Kazgemunai                          0.00        0.68    30.75       0.00    0.00        0.38      12.71      0.00
     1996                   Kazkommertsbank                      2.50       0,OO     0.00       0.00    2.50        0.00       0.00      0.00
     1997199                RambutyaLLP                          1.93       0.00     0.00       0.00     1.93       0.00       0.00      0.00
     1999102                SEF CASPILtd.                        2.50       0.00     0.00       0.00    2.50        0.00       0.00      0.00
     2001                   SEF Const. Mat                       0.87       0.25     0.00       0.00    0.67        0.00       0.00      0.00
     1999                   SEF LP-GAZ Ltd.                      2.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     1.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
     2000                   SEFNefteBank                         0.00       0.00     2.50       0.00     0.00       0.00       2.50      0.00
     2001                   Sazankurak                         14.17        0.00     5.00       0.00     9.17       0.00       5.00      0.00
     2000                   TuranAlem                            5.05       4.95      5.00      0.00     5.05       4.95       5.00      0.00
     1999
                                   Total Portfolio:            36.51        8.46     43.25      0.00    30.31        7.91      25.21      0.00



                                                                     Avvrovals PendineCommitment
     FY Approval            Company                                Loan        Equity       Quasi      Partic
     2002                   Karachaganak                           50.00       25.00        0.00       75.00
     2000                   Agrokaz                                 3.50        0.00        0.00        0.00
     2001                   Kazkommertsbk2                         15.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
     2001                   IspatKarmetSME                          0.00        3.37         0.00       0.00
     2002                   Astana Tower                            5.00        0.00         0.00       0.00

                            Total PendingCommitment:               73.50        28.37       0.00       75.00




                                                              -61 -

                                                Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                            KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT
                                                                       Europe8       Lower-        i
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                         Central    middle-
                                                         Kazakhstan          Asia    income          Developmentdiamond*
2001
Population,mid-year(millions)                                     14.8       475       2,164                       Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                                1,350      1,960      1,240
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                  20.1       930       2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01                                                                                           T
Population(%)                                                     -1.o        0.1         1.o
Laborforce(%)                                                     -0.1        0.6         1.2      , GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                                     per                                  primary
Most recentestimate(latest year available, 1995-01)                                                                                      nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                     32
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopu/ation)                               56        63          46
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                                       66        69          69
Infantmortality(per 7,000 livebirths)                               19        20          33
Child malnutrition(% ofchildren under5)                              4                    11              Access to improvedwater source
                                                                                                   ~
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                   91        90          80
Illiteracy1% ofpopulationage f5+)                                               3         15
Grossprimaiyenrollment (% ofschool-agepopu/ation)                   97        102        107           -Kazakhstan
    Male                                                            97        103        107                   Lower-~idd/e-incomegroup
    Female                                                          97        101        107

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                     1981        1991        2000       2001         Economicratios*
GDP (US$ billtons)                                                31.8       18.3        22.4
GrossdomesticinvestmentlGDP                                                  17.9        25.8                     -
Exportsof goods andServicedGDP                                               58.8        46.3                          Trade
GrossdomesticsavingslGDP                                                     27.3        23.4                            -
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                                    21.9        18.7
CurrentaccountbalanceiGDP                                                     2.3        -7.8
interestpaymentslGDP                                                          3.9         3.1        Domestic                         Investment
TotaldebtfGDP                                                                64.5        64.2        savings

Totaldebt sewicelexports                                                     31.4        31.1
Presentvalue of debUGDP                                                      36.6
Presentvalue of debllexports                                                 63.0
                                                                                                                     Indebtedness
                                      1981-91 1991-01            2000        2001    2001-05
(average annualgrowlb)
GDP                                         ..         -1.9        9.8       13.2         5.9            -Kazakhstan
GDP Der caDita                                         -0.9       10.2       13.5         6.0                   Lower-midd/e-income group
Expo& of goodsand services                  ....       -0.5       32.9       -3.3         7.2
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                     1981        1991        2000       2001
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                                   8.6         9.0
Industry                                                                     40.C        38.8
   Manufacturing                                                             18.3        15.6
Services                                                                     50.5        52.3
Privateconsumption                                                           57.9        60.1       -50-
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                                 14.8        16.5
Importsof goods andservices                                                  49.3        48.7                    __.GDI         *GDP


                                                  1981-91 1991-01            2000       2001
(average annualgrowth)                                                                               Growthof exportsand imports(   O h )

Agriculture                                                        -6.2       3.3        16.9       40 -

Industry                                                  ....     -5.6      16.4        15.1
   Manufacturing                                                             15.6        14.8
Services                                                  ..       3.5        7.4        10.8
Privateconsumption                                        ..       -2.9       4.1        18.9
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                       -4.4      36.7        19.6
Grossdomesticinvestment                                          -10.0        6.0        28.0
Importsof goodsandservices                                ......   -6.7      28.6        10.5

Note 2001 dataareprelimnaryestN"aes
*The diamndsshowfour key indicatorsinthe country(in bold)comparedwth its income-groupaverage Ifdata aremissing,the diammdwll be incomplete




                                                                         - 62 -

PRICESandGOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                               I
                                        1981   1991    2000   2001
                                                                                                                          I
Domesticprices                                                            Inflation( X )

("7 change)                                                                    T
Consumerprices                                  47.1     9.8    6.4
ImplicitGDP deflator                            96.4    17.4   11.6
Government finance                                                         50
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                           0
Currentrevenue                                         21.8   21.6                   96    97     98       99    00      01
Currentbudgetbalance                                    -1.o
                                                         1.4    2.3
Overallsurplusldeficit                                         -0.9                  -GDP       deflator *CPI


TRADE
                                        1981   1991    2000   2001
(US$miiions)                                                               Exportand Importlevels(US$ mill.)

Totalexports(fob)                                     9,277   9,101    I l O O M ) T                                      I
  Fueland oil products                                4,827   4,733
  Ferrousmetals                                       1,178   1,009
  Manufactures                                          670   1,490
Total imports (cif)                                   7,238   8,554
  Food                                                  539     836
  Fueland energy                                        572     790
  Capitalgoods                                        2,405   2,837
Exportprice index (1995=100)                                                        95   96    97    90    99

Importprice index (7995=700)                                                                Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=700)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1981   1991    2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                             Currentaccountbalanceto GDP       (Oh)

Exportsof goodsand services                           10,419 10,393        5 -
Importsof goods and services                          9,004  11,077            I
Resourcebalance                                        1,415   -684
                                                                           0
Net income                                            -1,194 -1,215
Net currenttransfers                                     191    150
Currentaccountbalance                                    412 -1,749        -5  -

Financingitems (net)                                   -271   2,133
Changes innet reserves                                 -141    -384        10  -
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)                   2,096  2,508
Conversionrate (DEC, /oca//US$)           ._ 5.1OE-3   142.1  146.7

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1981    1991   2000   2001
(US$ mi//ions)                                                             Compositionof 2001 debt(US$ mill.)              I
Totaldebtoutstandingand disbursed                     11,805 14,373
  IBPD                                                 1,057  1,070
  IDA                                                      0      0
Totaldebt service                                      3,338  3,331
  iBRD                                                    83    101
  IDA                                                      0      0
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                          44
  Officialcreditors                                       36     34
  Privatecreditors                                       868  2,128
  Foreigndirect investment                             1,250  2,731
  Portfolioequity                                          0                            F: 11,393
                                                                                                                           I
World Bank program
  Commitments                                              0     65        A IBRD
                                                                              -                              E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                           50    114        B IDA
                                                                              -
                                                                              ~        D other multilateral  F Private
  Principalrepayments                                     20     47        C IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                              ---
  Netflows                                                30     67
  Interestpayments                                        63     53
  Nettransfers                                           -33     13

ueveropmenttconomics                                                                                               YlltjlVZ




                                                    -63-

                                      Additional Annex 11
                           Summary of IncrementalCost Analysis
                    KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT


Overview
The global environmental objectives o fthe GEF fundedproject are to reverse landdegradation in
the steppe areas o f Kazakhstan and other similar dryland ecosystem of the region, improve
biodiversity, protect rare or endangered flora and fauna, increase the store o f carbon inbiomass
and soils and develop new knowledge on quantification o f carbon sequestration under different
land use systems.      The five-year project, at a total cost o f US$9.70 million, provides an
opportunity for the GEF to be a catalyst to promote the successful integration o f improved land
and natural resource management inthe drier regions of the country (and the region). The GEF
funding intends to achieve this at a total incremental cost of US$5.27 million. The involvement
o f the GEF has encouraged other donors to contribute about US$O.lO million. The project has
strong enthusiastic support o f the local beneficiaries who have pledged an estimated US$1.93
millionincashandkind,with the Government providing the remaining US$2.4 million.

Baseline Scenario
The baseline scenarioincludes activities that will promote sustainablelanduses inthe country
without GEF support. The government recognizes that these vast rangeland areas are inneed o f
assistanceboth from an economic and environmental viewpoint. The rural development strategy
currently underimplementation defines criteria for providing public assistanceto rehabilitate
only those marginal areas that demonstratepromising potential (ifpotential i s so low that public
expenditures cannot bejustified, incentives are provided to the resident populationto relocate to
areas o fhigherpotential). The Shetzky Rayonrepresents a borderline case, where shiftingfrom
the current unsustainable cereal-basedproductionsystem to the traditional livestock-based
production systemcouldprovide enough potential to deserve governmental assistance.

Most ifnot all farmers inthe pilot arearealize that livestock-based productionsystem i s the way
forward, butthe majority does not have sufficient fund for the investmentrequired. Access to
lendingservicesis limited. Localgovernment assistanceis limitedto providingveterinary
services, facilitating access to financial services, and controlling locust hfestations. The annual
spendingby the localgovernment inthe farming sector o f Shetskyrayonis around Tenge 19
millionper year ($124,000). Inaddition, some o fthe wealthier farmers, and other rural
populations owning under 10% o fthe landwould invest around US$330,000 per year, or
US$1,650,000 duringthe five years o fproject implementation.

The area receives limitedbenefits from some national initiatives. These include a 3-year
government program for: (a) plant support US$28 million; (b) veterinaryactivities US$17,9
million; (c) preservation and development o felite seed stock and livestock breeding US$I O
million; (d) rehabilitation o frural water supply and pipe line systemsUS$35 million; and (e)
improvement o fthe informationsystem for state landcadastre US$0.7 million. Inaddition the
ADB is financing aUS$55millionwater resourcemanagementandlandrehabilitationproject
and a US$0.7 millionlocust control project. TACIS i s supporting a US$2 millionintegrated
marketing system. World Bank financed projects for the next five years is expected to be at



                                                 * 64 -

approximately US$400 million.

The following table summarizesthe baseline scenario for the five years o fproject
implementation.

Financier                                   US$ (over 5 years)          US$ (average per year)
Government                                      2,400,000                      480,O 00
Donor-support                                     100,000                       20,000
Private farmers (beneficiaries)                  1,930,000                     386,000
Total                                           4.430.000                      886.000

The baseline scenario demonstratesthat annual investmentinthe project area, without GEF
funds is about US$4.43 million. This would not be sufficient to allow a shift from the
unsustainable crop-basedproduction systemto the traditional livestock-based productionsystem
on a scale large enough to effect tangible, measurablebenefits. The relatively low level o f
investment would cause substantial marginallands to be continued to be ploughed resulting in
further soil, organic carbon and fertility losses. Also, project incentives under the baseline
scenario would be significantly limitedandwould generate little interest among farmers and
pastoralists to adopt sustainableagro-pastoral practices inthe project area andlor beyond.

Alternative Scenario
The GEF Alternative would provide the means (above and beyond the baseline scenario) for
meetingthe proposedproject's goals. The GEF alternative has allowed arange o fadditional
activities designedto bringabout a large scale conversion o fthe marginal drylands inShetsky
rayon from the unsustainable crop-basedproductionsystemto the traditional livestock-based
production system. The GEF Alternative includes:
(1) Development o f SustainableLandUse Systems
    -   Re-vegetation o f abandonedwheat landincludingdirect seeding, conservation tillage and

    -   acceleration o fnatural vegetation;
         Sustainable managemento fdegradedpastures andrangelands, through shrub planting and
        maintenance, installation o flivestock watering points inoutlying grazing areas, thus

    -   opening up these areas to summer grazing; reducedgrazing measuresaroutld villages
        Demonstrations, including inter alia, reseeding methods, acceleration ofnatural
        vegetation, optimal grazing.
(2) Initial Service Support to Producer Groups
(3) Quantificationo fCarbon Sequestration
(4) Public Awareness and Replication Strategy
(5) Project Management Unit

The estimated total cost ofthe GEF alternative is US$9.70 million.

IncrementalCosts
The difference between the total project cost ($9.70 million) and the cost o fthe Baseline
Scenario ($4.43 million) provides an incremental cost o f US$5.27 h d e dbythe GEF. The
following matrix summarizes the incremental costs.


                                                 - 65 -

   Component/          cost     US$              Domestic Benefit                   GlobalBenefit
       Sector        Category  Million
Development o f    Baseline            Increased availability o f pasture
Sustainable Land                       for more profitable livestock
Use Systems                        2*77production   and reduced grasshoper
                                        infestations

                   With GEF                                                Carbon sequestration,
                   Alternative     5.53                                    biodiversity conservation, and
                                                                           control o fland erosion
                   Increment       2.76
Initial Service    Baseline            Improvedlivestock production,
support to                                     becomes more profitable
Producer Groups                    0-97which
                                       thanks to improved access to
                                       markets

                   With GEF                                                Ensures long-term
                   Alternative                                             sustainability o fproject
                                   1.28                                    interventions thereby ensuring
                                                                           global benefits over the long
                                                                           term
                   Incremental     0.31
Quantification o f Baseline             Improvedcapacity to quantify
Carbon                                  carbon sequestration with potential
Sequestration                      0.4  to benefit from carbontrading


                   With GEF                                                New empirical data on which
                   Alternative                                             to base estimation o f carbon
                                   1.31                                     sequestration indry continenta
                                                                            steppe ecosystems

                   Increment        0.9
Public Awareness   Baseline             Potential to replicate project
and Replication                    0.13 activities within Kazakhstan
Strategy
                   With GEF                                                 Potentialto replicate project
                   Alternative     0.851                                    activities outside Kazakhstan
                   Increment       0.72
Project            Baseline             N.A.
Management Unit

                   With GEF                                                N.A.
                   Alternative     0.73

                   Increment       0.58
TOTALS             Baseline        4.43
                   With GEF
                   Alternative      9.7
                                       1                                   I
                   Increment       5.271    -    -

GlobalBenefits
The mainglobal benefits o fthe propsoedproject include: (i)    improved knowledge on
quantification and monitoring o f carbon sequestrationunderdifferentlanduse types; (ii)
increasedcarbon sequestrationfor climate changemitigation, (iii)     improvedbiodiversity; and
(iv) control o flanddegradation.

While it is difficult to quantifyand assign avalue to most o fthese global benefits, the amount of
carbon sequestratedunder the project, including future potential, canbe however estimated.
Two independentestimations o f carbon sequestrationhave beenundertaken. The first was
undertakenby scientists from the "Kazakh Research Institutefor Environment Monitoring and
Climate" (based inAlmaty) and the secondbymembers o fthe Agricultural ResearchService o f
the "USDepartment of Agriculture" (Hydrolab, Agricultural ResearchCenter, Beltsville, MD,
USA). Neitherestimation is basedon empirical measurementofcarbon sequestrationbecause
such empirical measurementsdo not exist (thus the need for the proposed project). Both
estimations faces two types o funcertainty: (i)amount o f carbon sequestratedper hectare as
consequenceo fthe various environmentally friendlypractices; and (ii)     numberofhectareswhere
such practices will actually be implemented.Dependingfrom the different assumptions, both
estimations leadto similar results: carbon sequestratedbythe proposed project couldrange
between0.6 and 1.2 milliontons. Therefore even adopting the most conservative assumptions,
carbon sequestratedbythe project would be at least 0.6 milliontons.

Revegetationo fabandonedcereal lands would increasecarbon sequesteredvis-a-vis a no-action
optionbecause it will accelerate the natural processto re-establish an equilibriumamong
differentspecies. Naturalregenerationwould take at least 50 years, while revegetationefforts
underthe project couldallow regenerationwithin 20 years (iflandhasbeenabandonedfor more
than10years, benefits arenotworththe effort inwhich casethe projectwill take no action). In
additionthe managemento f degradedpastures andrangelandswill reduce overgrazing andthus
increasethe amount o fbiomass inthe soil. This would also increase organic carbon stored in
soil, quantifiedwith an average o f about G.024 tons o f C per year o f soil carbon inreseeded
wheat areas etc, or 0.3 t. C over 20 years. Onthe basis o f these assumptions, it is possible to
estimate the accumulation o f carbon over a periodo f20 years. The following table summarizes
such estimation for the Schetzy rayon.




                                               - 67 -

                                             Carbonsequestrationestimation
                   Technology                       Soil type      C Seques(tlhdyr)    Incr in  Area      Total     Pct
                                                                   wlo proj      wlproj 20 yrs  (ha)     (C Tons)


 1.1 Direct seeding                            daik-chestnut                 0.15   0.8      13   4,000     52,000   8.5%
                                               light-chestnut                 0.1   0.7      12   6,000     72,000   11.8%


 1.Z.Concervation tillage, seedingof recently
abandoned                                      dark-chestnut                 0.15   0.6      9    8,000     72,000   11.8%

                                               light-chestnut                 0.1   0.5      8   12,000     96,000   15.7%


 1.3.Accelerationofnatural vegetation          dark-chestnut                 0.15   0.3      3    4,000     12,000   2.0%
                                               light-chestnut                 0.1   0.2      2    6,000     12,000   2.0%


2.1.Impovmentsof degradetedpastures            dark-chestnut                    0   0.3      6    4,000     24,000   3.9%
                                               Iight-chestnut                   0   0.2      4    6,000     24,000   3.9%
2.2. Pastureprotecting by plantingshrubs       dark-chestnut                    0   0.3       6   3,600     21,600   3.5%
                                               light-chestnut                   0   0.2      4    5,400     21,600   3.5%


2.3. Overgrazing reduction(increase innumber of
watering points)                               dark-chestnut                 0.05  0.15       2  49,600     99,200   16.2%
                                               light-chestnut                0.03   0.1     1.4  74,400    104,160   17.1%
T O T A L                                                                                        183,000  610,560   100.0%


Convert Total C to total CO2=                         2,238,720
                                               US$/tonof CO2       T O T A L
Value (US$)                                                          5,596,800


Biodiversitv Benefits: The steppeecosystemof Kazakhstan i s uniqueandthe fields, fallow land,
rangeland, gullies andravines inthe project area serve as storage o fthe gene pool o fthe native
flora and fauna. Some plant and animal species, such as the red-breastedgoose, golden eagle,
manu1(palla's cat), northern fern, thinpoppy, etc. have become extinct over the years andmany
others are severelyendangered. By improvingthe management ofpastures andrangelands, the
project seeks to restore andprotect the natural habitats of many endangeredspecies. Also, by
providingtraining inrangeland and livestock management, as well as promotingpublic
awareness, the project will broadenunderstanding o fland degradation and relatedbiodiversity
issues among the project beneficiaries which will help inprotectingandconserving local flora
andfauna.

The project will achieve these global benefits byemphasizing and adopting anintegrated
ecosystemmanagementapproach which will also help inachieving ecological, economic and
social goals at a local, regional and global level.




                                                               -68-

                                       Additional Annex 12
                     Responseto CommentsReceivedfrom GEF Council
                   KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT


The project preparation team was pleasedto receive technical comments fkom the German, Swiss
and French teams and addressed these comments in subsequent project preparation work
undertaken over the past few months. In-depth discussions on project design, methodology,
scope, activities, costs and implementational arrangements were held with the Kazakh
counterparts and concerned ministries. The project's overall objective and proposed activities as
designed were agreed to be relevant and appropriate; a set o f modifications were incorporated in
the project document as discussedbelow.

Briefly, the project components and activities undereachcomponent have beenrevised andare
summarized as follows:

      COMPONENT                 SUB-COMPONENTS                            ACTIVITIES
1.Development of             1.1Management of
sustainable land use svstems ploughediands
                             1.1.1       Seedingprogram      Assistance to private farms for reseeding
                             including:                     upto 10,000 hectares ofploughed lands
                             9  direct seeding o f cereal    directly and 10,000 hectares with
                             stubble; and                    minimumtillage. Farmersto receive
                                minimumtillage and           grant for 75% of seeding cost.
                             seeding o frecently
                             abandoned lands.                Project to obtain elite seed from
                                                             Karaganda researchinstitute with
                                                             subsequent multiplication to be done by
                                                             private farmers.
                             1.1.2 Acceleration o fnatural   Assistance to private farmers for
                             revegetation                    accelerating the natural revegetation on
                                                             up to 10,000 hectares.
                             .2 Management of Degraded
                             'astures and Rangelands
                             1.2.1 Improvements to natural   Provision for introducing shrubs,
                             pasture and rangelands          improveu fertilization andgrazing
                                                             management.
                             1.2.2 Bio-diversity             Documentationo fthe current
                             Monitoring                      bio-diversity inthe project area and
                                                             regular monitoring over five years.
                             1.2.3 Lives tock watering       Provision o fupto 40 livestock watering
                             points                          points usingwindmills for extending
                                                             livestock grazing area.
                             1.2.4 Monitoring o flives tock  Monitoring o fup to 20 selected
                             enterprises                     livestock enterprises to develop
                                                             management information.
                             .3 Validation and              lemonstrations to be carried out on
                             lemonstration of new           Tarmers' fields to extend use o fpractices
                             eehnologies                    'or accelerating natural regenerationo fthe
                                                            Jegetative, seedingpractices and
                                                            llanagement pastures & rangelends.


                                                     - 69 -

 2. InitialService Support to

                              -1Assistance to producer     Project will assist farmers to organize
                              roups for marketinglivestock themselves infarmer associations andto
                              ndagriculturalproducts       establish: (a) establish six milk
                                                           collection; and (b) a regional
                                                           agriculturalmarket for meat, wool and
                                                           hides and other farmer produce from the
                                                           Stetsky Rayon.
                              2.3 Livestock and crop       Programfor strengthening existing
                              husbandry advisory services  akimat and MOA extension services to
                              for farmers                  assist farmers introduce best livestock
                                                           husbandry and fodder cropping
                                                           practices. Project to provide staff
                                                           training plus mobility allowance

 3. Quantification of Carbon
 Seauestration
                              3.1 Carbon Stock Assessment  The project will provide assistance for
                                                           the determination o fcarbon stocks in
                                                           soil and biomass for the four main land
                                                           use areas inthe pilot study area. Project
                                                           will provide for collection o fsamples,
                                                           analysis andinterpretation.
I                             3.2 Remote Sensingand        The project will provide for calibration
                              Modeling                     o fmodels for each land-use type, scaling
                                                           up to entire project area usingsatellite
                                                           imagety, provide baseline carbon map
                                                           andprediction o fpotential carbon
                                                           sequestrationunder different landuse
                                                           svstems.
I 4. PublicAwareness and

                              4.1 Public Awareness at      Project to provide: (a) public awareness
                              Local and National Level.    campaign to be designed and
                                                           implemented at local and national level.;
                                                           and (b) capacity at local level in
                                                           environment-related technical farming
                                                           skills, at the nationa; level inbetter
                                                           management o f environmental issues.
                              4.2 Replication Strategy at  Provision o fregional workshops, field
                              National and International   trips etc.
                              Level
I 5. ProjectManagement
  Unit
                              5.1 Project Monitoring       Provisionfor monitoring and evaluation
                                                           o fDroiect activities.
                              5.2 Project Administration   Administration o fproject.

  Thus, the project would focus onthe following landuse types: (i)        ploughedlandsthat were
  abandoned a numberofyears ago -incases where 50% ofthe landis alreadyundernatural
  vegetative cover would be left fallow to allow the growth ofnaturalvegetation; (ii)           ploughed



                                                    -70-

landthat hasbeenrecentlyabandonedandhas a little naturalvegetative cover would be subject
to sustainable landmanagementthrough direct re-seeding or minimumtillage seedingwith
locally adapted grasses; (iii)
                             landsthat are degradedpasturesor rangelandswould beputunder
sustianablerangelandmanagement, including controlledgrazing.

A considerable amount of informationrequestedby the reviewer is already available inworking
papers that were prepared by local and international experts. These included eminent Kazakb
scientists and experts from USDA (ARS and GL-CRSP) who have vast experience in dryland
rehabilitation, including rangeland and grassland rehabilitation and livestock issues.        The
working papers are available with the Project Preparation Unit. In order to allow the Project
Document to remain within the generally prescribed length, details o f project information -
baseline scenario, revegetation program, activities for sustainable rangeland management
biodiversity monitoring, livestock management, etc. - are provided inthe working papers which
canbe made available uponrequest. Pleasesee Annex 8 for the list o fworking papers.


                                 Response to German Comments

Maincomments
Although theproblem of thefuture of Kazakhstan's vast abandonedcropland in the dry steppe zone is
of economic and ecological interest, the DMP fails to develop approaches that are consistent with
GEFpolicies andprocedures and that are ecologically and economicallysustainable.

Response. The proposedproject i s consistent with the Operational Program 12, (GEF OP-12)
"Integrated Ecosystems Management" which is aimed at catalyzing widespread adoption o f
comprehensive ecosysteminterventions that integrate ecological, economic, and social goals to
achieve multipleandcross-cutting local, national and global benefits. The OP facilitates
inter-sectoral and particiaptory approachesto natural resourcemanagementplanning and
implementation on an ecosystemscale. By emphasizing integrated ecosystemmanagementand a
comprehensive cross-sectoral approach it addressesmany o fthe goals o fglobal environmental
conventions, includingUnitedNations Convention to Combat Desertification (CCD), United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Conventionon
Biological Diversity(C3D). The OP brings synergy to three focal areas (biodiverrity, climate
change and international waters) as well as land degradation to optimize multiple benefits. It
responds to growing stakeholders' interests inadopting a holistic approach inaccordancewith
national priorities.

The projecthas beenpreparedunderthe umbrella o f OP 12and project activities havebeen
developed within the overall framework o f an integrated ecosystemmanagement approachto
optimizepositive ecological, economic and social benefits o f activities aimedat restoring
ecosystemstructure and function. The proiect also supports the objectives o f OP15 (Land
Degradation) which emphasizes sustainable landmanagementas inappropriate land use practices
are among the main cuases o f some global environmental problems. The expected project
outcomes are consistent with the expected outcomes outlined inOP 12and 14, viz. (i)    creation o f
an enabling environment; (ii)  institutional strengthening; and (iii)
                                                                   investments.



                                                 - 71 -

The proiect brings synergy between two focal areas within OP12: (i)       Biological Diversity: and
(ii)ClimateChange, Through development ofsustainablelandusesystemstheproject will
protect and improve the existing biodiversity inthe Shetsky rayon. The project has implications
for climate change as it will assist in determining carbon stocks in soil and biomass inthe four
main land use areas in the pilot study area and through calibration o f models be able to predict
potential carbon sequestrationunderdifferent landuse systems. The information and models that
will be developed on carbon sequestration are not currently available and it is essential to prove
that this pilot methodology couldbe applied to other similar areas.

The principle of public involvement for proiect design and implementation has been key in
preparation o fthis proiect. Information dissemination, consultation and stakeholder participation
have been ensured with local populations, including NGOs and the project i s facilitating a
meaninghl role in the elaboration o f effective and economic natural resouce management
services for boththe community and the environment

Insum, theproiect willhavebothlocalandglobalbenefits. Theprojectwillpromotesustainable
ploughed land and rangeland management and income generating activities which will allow
improvedmanagemento f landand vegetation. The more important global benefits will be (i)         the
information that will be developed on carbon sequestration which could be applied to other
similar areas of Kazakhstan andthe world with important implications for climate change; (ii)
biodiversity protection and conservation; and (iii) landdegradation control.
                                                     and


The global benefits of theproject are described as increase in the quantity and quality of fauna and
flora - itis not specified which species or ecosystems are meant and, to our knowledge, there are no
endangered species that could beprotected by the describedproject.

Response. The steppeecosystemo fKazakhstan i s unique and the fields, fallow land, rangeland,
gullies andravines inthe project area serve as storage o fthe gene pool o fthe native flora and
fauna. The endangered species indicated inthe RedBook o f Kazakhstanthat will beprotected
under the project, include:




                                                 - 72 -

                                               Great Black-headed Gull




I
I




Increase in carbon sequestration the calculation seems to be exaggerated, and it does not consider
                                   -
the seEf-regeneration of steppes 4s a comparison line. Ifthe carbon sequestration is to be tradedon the
world market, theglobal benejit is not valid!

The carbon sequestration component is a target research activity; it is designed to provide
technical assistance for improvingthe existing knowledge and skills available in the country to
quantify and monitor carbon sequestration so as to enable the government to meet its obligations
under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. No carbon trading is envisaged under
the project.

While it is difficult to quantify the exact amount of carbon sequestrated under the project,
including future potential, estimations can be made based on scientific data, Two independent
estimations of carbon sequestration have been undertaken: the first by scientists from the     "
Kazakh ResearchInstitutefor Environment Monitoring and Climate" (based inAlmaty) andthe



                                                -73-

secondbymembers o fthe Agricultural ResearchService o fthe "USDepartment of Agriculture"
(Hydrolab, Agricultural ResearchCenter, Beltsville, MD, USA). Neitherestimation i s basedon
empirical measuremento fcarbon sequestrationbecausesuch empiricalmeasurementsdo not
exist (thus the need for the proposedproject). Both estimations faces two types o funcertainty: (i)
amount o f carbon sequestratedperhectareas consequenceo fthe various environmentally
friendly practices; and (ii)
                           numberofhectareswhere suchpractices will actually be implemented.
Dependingfrom the differentassumptions, bothestimations leadto similar results: carbon
sequestratedbythe proposed project couldrange between 0.6 and 1.2milliontons. Therefore
even adopting the most conservative assumptions, carbon sequestratedbythe project would be at
least 0.6 milliontons.

Revegetationo f abandonedcereal lands would increasecarbon sequesteredvis-a-vis a no-action
optionbecause it will acceleratethe naturalprocess to re-establish an equilibrium among
different species. Naturalregeneration would take at least 50 years, while revegetationefforts
under the project couldallow regeneration within 20 years (iflandhasbeenabandonedfor more
than 10years, benefits arenotworththe effort inwhich casethe project will take noaction). In
addition the managementof degradedpasturesand rangelands will reduce overgrazing andthus
increasethe amount o fbiomass inthe soil. This would also increase organic carbon stored in
soil, quantified with an average o f about 0.024 tons o f C peryear o f soil carbon inreseeded
wheat areas etc, or 0.3 t. C over 20 years. Onthe basis o fthese assumptions, it i s possible to
estimate the accumulation o fcarbon over aperiod o f20 years. The following table summarizes
such estimation for the Shetzky rayon.




                                                - 74 -

                                            Carbon sequestration estimation
                  Technology                         Soiltype       C Seques (tlhdyr)    Iner in  Area      Total     Pct
                                                                    wlo proj      wlproj 20yrs    (ha)     (CTons)

1.1 Direct seeding                              dark-chestnut                0.15    0.8      13    4,000    52,000    8.5%
                                                light-chestnut                0.1    0.7      12    6.000    72.000   11.8%


1.2.Concervation tillage, seeding ofrecently
abandoned                                       dark-chestnut                0.15    0.6       9    8,000    72,000   11.8%

                                                light-chestnut                 0.1   0.5       8   12,000    96,000   15.7%


1.3.Accelerationofnaturalvegetation             dark-chestnut                0.15    0.3       3    4,000    12,000    2.0%
                                                light-chestnut                 0.1   0.2       2    6,000    12,000    2.0%


2.1.Impovmentsof degradetedpastures             dark-chestnut                    0   0.3       6    4,000    24,000    3.9%
                                                light-chestnut                   0   0.2       4    6,000    24,000    3.9%
2.2. Pastureprotecting by plantingshrubs        dark-chestnut                    0   0.3       6    3,600    21,600    3.5%
                                                light-chestnut                   0   0.2       4    5,400    21,600    3.5%


2.3. Overgrazing reduction (increase innumber of
watering points)                                dark-chestnut                0.05    0.15      2   49,600    99,200   16.2%
                                                light-chestnut               0.03     0.1     1.4  74,400    104,160  17.1%
T O T A L                                                                                          183,000  610,560   100.0%


Convert Total C to total C02=                          2,238,720
                                                US$/tonofC02        T O T A L



Self re-generation of stevues will serve as the baseline o f carbon stock which will be measured prior to
the implementation of project activities.



Reduction in wind and water erosion and improvementof water quality these are not of           -
global relevance

Response. Inthe Shetsky rayon, low vegetative cover combined with periods o fhighwind
speids anddust storms as well as low duration rainfall, create jonditions conducive to wind and
water erosion. Organic matter indust oxidises rapidly whentaken inthe atmosphere, releasing
carbon (which has beenaccountedfor inthe carbon sequestration estimation. Inthe publication:
"Method for Mapping and Treatment o f Stony LandSubject to Erosion inSemiarid Regions"
undertakenbythe Ministryo fAgriculture, Israel and KazakhAcademy o f Sciences extensive
details have beenprovidedon soil erosion and conservation methods. Soil fraction often
removed by wind and water erosion tends to be o fhigherC content than the bulk soil (La1et al.
1976). It is estimated that 20% o fC lost to erosion is emitted to the atmosphere as C02 (La1et
al. 1998). Erosioncontrol is thus important for optimizing C sequestrationwhich is o f important
global relevance. Also, wind erosion inthe project area i s resultingin&her degradation o fthe
already poor quality land and is attracting damaging locust populations which are trans-boundary
which further underscoresthe need for erosion control.




                                                                -75-

Thereis no detailed analysisof the current situation in theproject area and therefore no
baselineagainst which impactscan be measured. Theproject concept does not contain any
                                                         ...
justi~cationfor the selection of theproject site in Shetsky rayon. I t lacks a catalogue of
criteriafor the selection of theproject site.

Response. A detailed baseline socio-economic survey was undertakenat the start o fproject
preparation andthe methodology and results o fthe surveyare provided inWorking Paper 1.

Justification for selection o fProject Site inShetsky Rayon:
Selection criteria: The project activities for the revegetationo fabandoned lands will be implemented in
eleven sub-districtsl o f the northern zone o f Shetsky Rayon, Karaganda Oblast, an area o f deep rural
poverty with unfavorable climatic, social, economic and technological conditions that restrict economic
development opportunities. The selected project area meets the following criteria that were agreed
betweenthe project identificationteam andInter-Ministerial Working Group inJune 2000, namely:

    (i)     two-thirds o f the cereal areas are unprofitable for cereal production (less than 600 kglha) or
            are abandoned;
    (ii)    the soils andlandscapes are suitable for introductiono f sustainable landuse practices, e.g.
            sown fodderlpastweslrangelandor rehabilitation o f natural vegetation;
    (iii)   average annualrainfall i s below 300"/year;
    (iv)    the site i s easily accessible for demonstrationpurposes; and
    (v)     the project zone is representative o f other areas to allow replicability o f activities inand
            outside the country.

Briefly,the proposedproject area covers some 1.38 millionhectaresandthe bulk ofthe landis
classified as rangeland, mucho fwhich is degradeddue to a lack o fmanagement and fiequent
fires. Since the Virgin Lands Schemeintroduced inthe 1950s, there has been a considerable
reduction of cropping and at the present time there are 0.52 millionha o f abandonedarable lands
inKaragandaOblast alone. Itis estimatedthat over 15millionhaaregoingout ofcereal
production inKazakhstan. The baseline socio-economic survey confirmedthe growing
importance of livestock as a source o fhousehold income with 98% o fthe households having
cattle, and over 60% sheep andhorses. However, grazing pressures, especially near homesteads,
has resulted irdecreasingthe quality ofrangelands around village comunities inthe project
area. Also, the survey highlighted the difficulties of marketing livestock products inthe area due to
distance andhighcost of transport, as well as the lack o fmarket informationavailable to farmers. Low
farm incomes and lack of rural opportunities hasmade it important to diversify income-earning
opportunities inorder to raise family incomes and to alleviate poverty. The affected population
intheproject areaisapproximately 20,000 people.



 Theprojectproposal does not considerall relevant and realistic alternatives.

Response. The project preparation team didconsider alternatives:
The option o fno intervention on the landwas discussedbythe project preparationteam;
however, scientists and experts, some o fthem from the Institutes o fLandUse Classification
 Soils, Remote Sensing and Modeling, and Botanypointed out that natural revegetation o fthe


                                                     -76-

landcouldtake over 50 years and that the type ofnatural vegetation (often wildgrass) would not
serve as the best source o f C sequestrationas fast vegetative cover. Itwas agreedthat the
alternative o fnot doing anything onthe ploughed lands andnot controlling the overgrazing
around village communities, would increasethe severity o flanddegradation, including severe
wind andwater erosion, loss o fcarbon and loss o fbiodiversity. Also, there is no telling that the
localpopulationwould allow land inthe regionto remain fallow. It is possible that suchland
would be ploughed periodically, particularlyinyears o f good precipitation, and such a practice
would lead to a downward spiral o f landdegradation. However, the projectwill allow for natural
regeneration insome areas which will provide a benchmark against which project impacts canbe
measured.

Whether investments inKazakhstan's marginalcereal-growing areas arejustified at this juncture.
Inthisregard, landownership hadresultedinf mownership beingvestedinindividualswho
have minimumexperience insmall-scale or commercial farming. Without providing the small
landholders and commercial farmers access to informationon sustainable agricultural practices
andtechnology, it was apparentthat the new farmers would fbrther degradethe already
marginalized lands, compounding the problems o f lost biodiversity, low carbon sequestrationand
the spread o fdesertification. The existinginstitutions were illequipped to address these issues.
Moreover, the spillover effects o fthese unsustainable landuse patterns could also have major
consequencesfor the surrounding countries and it was deemedappropriate to initiate this project
and stem further landdegradation and its accompanying adverse impacts. Itwas agreedto allow
natural regeneration o fthe abandonedlandwithout reseedingandplantingactivities inthose
ploughed lands where 50% o fthe area i s already undervegetative cover.

Develop an integrated, cross-sectoral sustainablelandmanagementapproach to addressthe
myriad economic, ecological and social issues facing the populations living on these degraded
w.
Giventhe ecological and economic situation inthe area, itwas agreedto adopt this alternative as
there was anurgentneedto assist the populations o fthe areawith income generating activities
through sustainable managemento fthe environment. There i s an immediate need to bringthis
rangelandback into more productive and sustainableuseto prevent furfher landdegradation and
its adverse ecological cmsequences. Boththe national and local Government ofLazakhstan
requestedassistanceto rehabilitate the lands and convert the cereal-basedproductionsystems
into livestock-based production system (as was the case before the Virgin Lands' Program o fthe
1950s) to provide the localpopulation a sustainable means o flivelihood.


Theproposedmethodologyis weak.
Response. The project has been developed on the basis o f the findings and recommendations
outlined in the working papers. As mentioned earlier, the working papers were prepared by
Kazakh and international expertslscientists (USDA, Global Mechanism, etc) who have vast
experience in dryland rehabilitation. The methodology for each component is detailed in the
working papers and has formed the basis o fthe activities described inthe Project Document. To
maintain the prescribed length o f the Project Document, the details o fthe methodologies are not



                                                -77-

described inthese documents, butmaybe obtained from the working papers. The revisedproject
components and activities are provided inSection C o fthe Project Document.


Thebudget is not detailedenough.
Response. A detailed budget has been prepared and i s provided in Annex 3 o f the Project
Document.


Other Comments:
Theestimatedimprovementof thefarmers' economic situation is notjusti~edbecause of the
weaknessof thebasic assumptions: Currently thelimitingfactor for livestock breedingisgenerally
not the dejkiency ofproductivepastures, but~nancialproblemsof thefarmers, who cannotenlarge
their herds.

Response. Currently, the limitingfactors for livestock breedingare a combination o f the lack o f
winterfeed, lack o fwater points inoutlying areas for summer grazing, poor markets and
inadequate finance. It should be pointedout that after an initial drop inlivestocknumbers, these
numbershave startedto increaseinthe Shetskyregion; however, inthe socio-economic survey
undertakenin2001andinsubsequentconsultative meetings, farmers indicatedthat lack of
winterfeeds and markets were primary problems. A lack o f good qualityhay andpastureland in
the winter months make it difficult to maintaincattle I livestock. The survey highlightedthe
difficulty ofmarketing products inthe area due to distance and highcost oftransport, as well as
the lack of market information available to farmers.

To addressthese, the project will assist inthe production o fmore winterfeed andthe
establishment o f45 livestock watering points 5-7km from the villages. While the project will
focus on the provisiono f feed and markets, the government o f Kazakhstan is arranging to
provide credit to the farmers to allow themto purchasegood quality livestock which inturnwill
promote good quality livestock breeding. Also, inlate 2001, the Ministyo fAgriculture
established a state corporation "Mal Onemderi" with the objective to purchase livestock products
directly from farmers at fair prices.
Insum, finance, feedandmarket?are important determinants oflivestock numbers andthe
proposed project will addressthese issueswhich will result inbetter livestock quality and
numbers.


Thefollowing issues are not indicated in theDMP concept: What is the difference between
the livestock carrying capacity of naturally recovered abandonedlands and reseeded land?
Response. The project will examine this issue duringimplementation.

Naturallyrecovered abandonedlands often result inrangelandso f inadequate quality. Such
vegetation i s often spiny, poisonous, flimsyand does not have muchcarrying capacity. Onthe
other hand, abandonedlands re-seededwith perennials that have longroots, have a dual benefit.
Byincreasingbiomass bothabove andbelow ground, they not only improvethe landfor
pasturelgrazing (sometimes resultinginquadrupling the livestock carry capacity) butalso helpto


                                               - 78 -

conserve carbon inthe soil. Also, the project will improvethe carrying capacity o f existing
degradedrangelands.


What species and races of livestockis it intendedto breed (this is important in view of their
very dvferent impact on vegetation)?
Sheep, cattle and horsesare the primaryanimals inthe area.
See Working Paper 4: Revegetation Program for Abandoned Ploughed Lands and
TriallDemonstration Programs.

How is the currently low stocking rate to be increased?
Low stockingrate will be increasedby: (a) improvingthe land's canying capacity -the stocking
rate inthe project area i s currently20-22 heads o fconventional grown sheep (cgs) per 100ha. It
is estimated that project interventions will help increase the rate to 33-37 cgs per 100ha; (b)
improving access to markets so that they can benefit from selling meat, milk and other livestock
products; (c) increasedincomes generatedfrom selling milk, meat, etc. as well as credit provided
bythe government will provide purchasingpower to increasestocking rate.


What type of livestock breedingsystemsshould be developed?
Improvedpedigree o flivestock animals i s the basis o fa sustained livestock-basedproduction
system. The project will support measuresfor breedingimprovements based onproved scientific
recommendations. Primary focus would be onmeat production, so cattle, sheep, and horses will
receive top priority. The secondpriority would be milkproduction.

For details, see Working Paper 9: Assistance Programto Producer Groups for Marketing
Livestock andAgricultural Products.


What is the market situation likefor dijJerent livestockproducts in K~zakhstanand outside?
How will thegrowingproduction of meat, skins, wool, milk etc. influence theproducerprices
and the economicfeatures ofprivate farms infuture?        ...Assistancetoproducer     groups to
improvethe marketing of increasedmilk :.nd meatproduction. Theactivity does not indicate
the current market situationfor theproductsfor which it is intended to increaseproduction.

Response. The livestock sector inKazakhstaninthe past decade was characterized by drastic
changes inboth supplyand demand. Only recentlyhas the livestockpopulationstartedto
increase, and that too only at a subsistence rural household level. The Government's 2003-2005
development planaims to focus on increasing the marketing o fprimaryandprocessedlivestock
farm products inbothdomestic and foreignmarkets. There are opportunities for sustainable
growth giventhe significant potentialthat could be harnessedfrom Kazakhstan's large
underutilized rangelandresources and the growing markets.

According to the informationprovidedbythe Ministryo fAgriculture inthe Agrohform Bulletin
o f September2002:



                                                - 79 -

Livestock currently accounts for approximately US$50 millioninexports, down from close to
US$150 milliona few years ago, (Duringthe Soviet period, the two major export goods (meat
andwool) were approx one millionmetric tones each).

Although currently the sector i s mainly supplyinglocal markets, inthe longer term there could be
a potential for exports into neighboring countries o fthe regionwhere incomes are risingand
demand for livestock products is increasing. Participation inthese markets (Le. Russia, China,
MiddleEast) mayrequire specific trade arrangements and or WTO membership.

Major livestock export products duringthe 1992-2000 period included hides and skins (38%),
beef(25%), wool (18%) andmutton and lamb (6%). These exports, apart from wool, were
largely claimed to be a result o f "dumping" low costs products associatedwith the downsizing
o fthe inventory.

Currently the three major livestock products are meat (mainly beefand lamb), milk and wool.

IntheKaragandaoblast, meatproductionfallsfarbelowdemandsothatdeficitiscoveredby
importedmeat and meat products (113 comes from other regions o f Kazakhstanandthe balance
fromCIS and other countries. The existingcapacity for processingraw meat is insufficientin
nearly all regions andthere exists a highpotential for developing meat processing plants.

Commercial milkprocessing fell from 61% in 1990 to 7.7% in2001of total milk production.
Processingcapacities operate at an average O f 25% o ftotal capacity. Poor milkprocessing units
has resulted inimports of large quantities o fmilk products, especially tinnedmilk.

InKazakhstan, there are 31enterprisesfor hideprocessingwith atotal capacity of2.7 million
conditional hides per year that provides processing o fonly about 40% o fproduced raw material.

Only 12enterpriseswith a total capacity of 33.4 thousand tonnes per year are processing wool.
Deficit is 40%

Shearing and removinghides are done with inappropiate technologies that sharplydecreases
quality o fraw materials andmakes themuncompetitive inthe domestic markets.

Overall, sour cream, cheese and brynza are competitive inthe domestic market. Only wheat
flour and cottonfiber are competitive ininternational markets.

For details, see Working Paper 9: Assistance Program to Producer Groups for Marketing
Livestock and Agricultural Products.


Theproject intendsto use herbicidesto reduce weeds on the abandonedlands. These
herbicideswill result in a decreaseof thesteppeplants that are still or already incorporated in
the current vegetation cover. Additionally, environmentalpollution of air and soil is to be



                                                - 80 -

expected.Local herbivores @.e. Citellus, Marmots, etc.) that have already repopulated the
fallows will either bepoisoned or may starve. This will certainly have negative effects on the
predators of these animals as well @e. raptors, wolves,foxes, badgers, etc.).

Response. Although farm inputuse i s the farmers' responsibility, the project will use this
opportunity to assist farmers to usethese inputsina more safe andresponsible way. The project
does not planto finance the purchaseo f Chemical Control Agents (CCAs) although farmers will
continue to use some CCA duringtheir regular farming activities duringthe life o fthe project,
especially for the control o f locusts andhessian flies. The Government o fKazakhstan has
recently upgraded itmanagemento fthe control and oversight regarding use o fpesticides with the
help o fFA0 (FA01TCPIKAZ 0065 (E) "Emergency Program for the Control o fLocust
Outbreaks"). A new Department o fPlant Protection andQuarantine (DPPQ) was established in
the Ministry o fAgriculture bythe Govemment o f Kazakhstan. The project will buildon this
development. All farmers that use or will use CCA on their lands will be trained inthe storage,
handlingand use o fthese chemicals as well as with respectto the careful disposal o fthe
containers. The use o fappropriate clothingwill be encouragedthrough demonstration. The

benzoyl ureas (Dimilin)- all class 111chemicals. Farmers may also use chemicals for the control
approved chemicals usedare pyrethroids (Kinmix, Fury, Karate), phenylpyrazoles (adonis) and

o fticks and other parasites. These farmers will be includedinthe training inrisk preventing; and
inthe handling, storageanduse ofcontrolagents. Participating farmers areexpectedto develop
pest managementplans that indicate the expected pests and corresponding anticipated control
methods.


There are no indigenous tree species. The planting activities would probably be done with
non-indigenous species and the long-term success of any treeplantation in the dry steppe zone
is doubtfil.
During the appraisal mission, the sub-component on tree planting was dropped, so no tree
planting activity will be undertaken directly by the Project. However, the planting o f locally
adaptedshrubs and busheswill be supportedbythe Project.


PuWc awarenessand capacity buildingactivities may be useful, Irxt neither a detailed conceptfor this
activity nor the concrete contents are described.
Details are provided inWorking PaperNo.14: Design o f Public Awareness Campaign, Capacity
BuildingandReplicationStrategy.


ThePMU should not be regarded as a singleproject component but is to be described (as additionally
done) under institutional andImplementationArrangements"
Inmost Bank-funded projects, the Project Management Unitis presented as a component of the
project.


The description of management and implementation of theproject is very vague and insufficient. In
particular, the number and composition of PMU staff ispoorly justijied. ThePMU seems to be quite



                                                 -81 -

small for the implementation of such a large scale project. There is no indication of the additional
technicalstaff required
During the appraisal mission, implementation arrangements were finalized with the local
government. Please see Project Document, Section C4.


Budget. The DMP concept only breaks down the overall project budget on thefour components. A
more detailedbudget is essential.
The detailed costs are presentedinAnnex 3 and5 o fthe Project Document.


Incremental CostAssessment. Thereviewer questionsthe assumptionsused as the basisfor preparing
theICA (see 1.). Theglobal beneflts of the GEF courseof action are not evident (see 2.).
As theICA is a summary of theprojectproposal, the above argumentsare all validfor theICA.

The Incremental Cost Analysis has been revised and is presented in Annex 11 o f the Project
Document.


                             Responseto Swiss Technical Comments

MainConcerns

ComuonentI:Develoualternate land uses ($6.6 million1
Therevegetation of large land areas, involvingnearly 70% of thepeasantfarms, seems to be
unrealistic;there may be involvement,but what about sustainability? Toensure the engagement of
thefarm heads, who are normally women, one option may be to organizepriority support actions and
microcreditson the level of individual households.

Response. The projecthas been developed to ensure social, economic, financial and ecological
sustainability o fproject activities. Duringprojectpreparation, keystakeholders, individual
farmers, farmer organizations, NGOs, and local officials have been fully consulted inthe
development o f detailed project components. As women are deeply involved inproductive labor,
such as livestock tending, the project sought to ensure the involvement of women inproject
preparation. A baseline socio-economic survey at the village level was conducted at the very
start o fproject preparation inthe project areawhere interviews were split into two groups, one
covering heads o fpeasantfarms, the other headso f individualhouseholds. Ineachcase a
random sample o f 102 individualswas selectedand all focus groups includedbothmenand
women inthe project area.

Project activities have beendevelopedto provide considerable benefits to farmers which will
help ensure their widespread adoption and sustainability bothwithin the project area as well as
outside the Shetskyrayon. The shift from the current unprofitable cereal-basedproduction
system to the more profitableand sustainablelivestock-basedproductionsystem will provide
farmers and beneficiaries with improvedhousehold incomes and better living standards, The
low-cost, easily-available agricultural technologies beingprovidedto farmers will assist in
rehabilitating the degradedlands andtheir carrying capacity. The increaseinnumbersand


                                                - 82 -

quality o fthe livestock and livestock products such as milk, meat, wool andthe establishment o f
a local market where these goods could be sold at competitive prices will act as incentives to
farmers inthe project area and encourage increased adoption o fproject activities, bothwithin and
outside the project area. Also, the Government i s establishing a state corporation, "Mal
Onemderi" withthe objective o fpurchasing livestockproducts directly from farmers at fair
prices.

Inadditionseveralactionshavebeenadoptedinproject designto guaranteesustainability:
9       existing scientific institutes (such as the GrainResearchInstitute, Soils Research
Institute, the National Center for LandManagement, among others) will shareresponsibility for
project implementation;
9       the project involvement key stakeholders early inproject preparationto increase social
sustainability;
9       the proposed technology should achieve financial sustainability ina few years; and
9       environmental sustainability is the project's may thrust.

For further details, see the attachedProject Document, Section F.

Planting activitieswithin the componentframework seem to be another crucialproblem. Shelterbelts
and blockplantings are an example of the highly political^ initiated campaignsin theZelina
planning during theSoviet era. Training of farmers in nursery techniqueswill be not sufficient to
replace these campaigns; a system of incentivesfor thefarmers must be developed.

Response. Tree plantinghas been dropped from the project; uponconsultations with the primary
beneficiaries and other stakeholders, locally adapted shrubs and rangeland species are now being
promoted underthe project.

Thestrategies described in theproducer groups componentseem to be insufficient from thepoint of
view of accessto markets. Theformer Soviet system of transport to market, on the one handfrom the
kolkhoz and on the other handfor legalizedprivate cropproduction, was extremely well organized,
without any initiativefrom the individualfarmer. Thepost Soviet waiting syndrome among the local
population will hinder market-orientated initiatives, if all activities intended to improve access to
market and diversifl theproduct lines are not combined withparticipatory and initiative-creating
tools.

Response. The project has addressedthe issue o fmarkets undera new component as detailed in
the revised Project Document: "Initial Service Support to Producer Groups".

The market sub-component was developed as anoutcome o fthe consultative meetingsheldwith
farmers and other stakeholdersinthe project area who emphasizedthe lack o fmarkets as a
primaryeconomic concern. With fullparticipationandinputofthe primary stakeholders, itwas
agreedto establish an agriculture market inAksu-Ayulito sell agriculture products from private
farmers inthe region. Aksu-Ayuliwas selectedas the locationbecauseit i s centrally located,
making it a more efficient and effective point for the collectionand sale o f farmer produce and
products. The locationof the market site is a mere 100meters from the Almaty-Astana highway.
This provides a very visible andaccessiblelocationfor suppliers (family farms) andwholesale


                                                  - 83 -

buyers. Development ofthe marketwill take place intwo stages: duringthe initial stage, wool,
hides and hay will becollected, stored and sold; the secondstage will add livestock and other
small farmer produce.

For further details, see Project Document, Section C and Annex 2; para 2.1.2.

Comvonent2: Monitorinpof CarbonSequestration($1.7 mio). Thebudget of thiscomponentis
rather high in comparisonto the other two. Thenecessary GISand remote sensing tools are not
describedin detail (source of data,soil-/water-parameters,sensors, scales). It seems doubtful that
modelling the carbon stock changesunder alternativemanagementoptionson the detailedlevel
proposed really makes sense whenseen in theframework of themain objectives of components 1and
3 . Extrapolating the main carbonsequestrationfactors in soil and vegetation will not be sufficient,
because ecosystemparametersunder CentralAsian continentalsteppeclimates(e. g. salination of
soils) are highly divergent.

Response. The budget o fthe component on carbon sequestrationhasbeen reviseddownward
andis reflected inthe revisedProject Document as US$1.3 million.

This is a target researchactivity; it is designed to quantify carbon sequestrationinsoil and
vegetation under differentlanduse systems. The researcheffort would be instrumental in
identifylngthe landusemanagementunderwhich sequestrationo fcarbonwould bemaximum.
Through re-vegetation o fthe abandonedcereal lands and rehabilitation of the degradedpastures
with deep-rootedperennial grasses as designedundercomponent 1,an ancillary benefit underthe
project i s increasedcarbon sequestration insoil andbiomass inthe project area. A quantification
o f carbon heldinsoil andvegetation, together with monitoring o fcarbon sequestration
magnitudes and dynamics inthe project area couldprovide reliable estimates o f carbon
sequestrationpotential under different landuse systems. Throughthe public awarenessand
replicationprogram developed under component 3, project activities as well as the information
obtained on carbon sequestrationcouldbe extrapolated to other parts o fKazakhstan and Central
Asia that have similar ago-climatic conditions. Thus, this project canplay a pivotalrole, not
only inCentral Asia, butglobally, inthe development and implementation o f an effective carbon
monitoring and managementsystem.

See Project Document, Section C and Annex 2 for details on carbon sequestration measurenients
and monitoring.

Component3: Capacitvbuild in^ and Replication ($0.55 mio). This component concerningthebudget
and the time needed seems to be underestimated. Toensure thesustainability of capacity building and
replication activities, the activitiesproposed under this component must be includedfrom the
beginning, not only in the last threeyears, asplanned in the logframe. Incentive mechanismsfor
extensionfarmers and consultantsfrom governmentaland NGO organisationsare recommended to
help ensure thesuccess of this disseminationcomponentafter thephasing out of theproject.

Response. The budget for this component has been increasedto US$O.9million.

While the project will promote capacity-building and sustainability o fproject activities from the
very start o fproject implementation, replicationactivities will commence only after the project



                                                  -84-

has demonstrated tangible benefits onthe ground which is expected over the first two years o f
project implementation. Support for and adoption o fproject activities inother similar
agro-climatic sites o f Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries will be stronger when there
are quantifiable positive outputs resultingfrom project interventions. It canbe realistically
estimated that revegetation o fthe abandonedcereal lands andrehabilitationo fthe pasturelands
will start yieldingpositive economic andecological results at least a year after project
implementation.

Conclusionsand Recommendations. I t seems evidentthat duringproject componentdesign, the key
factors for identifling the Shetsky district were not made clear or described in the baselinesurvey
conducted in 2001. Therefore it is recommendedthat elaboration of thesekeyfactors be included in
the detailed activityplanningfor Components1and 2. Otherwise, the replication strategyfor the other
northern Oblast of Kazakhstan would be not successful.

Response. Pleasesee our responseabove to this similar comment madebythe German group.

Toensure theparticipation in the steering mechanism on the district and local levels, it is
recommended that membership on the steering committeebe reconsidered. One option adapted to the
conditionsin thepost-Sovietcontext in Kazakh institutionscould be: only 1memberfrom each
ministry (MNREP;MOA); no memberfrom theAcademic centre; 1memberfrom the National
agency, 1international senior consultant or adviser with an agricultural, environmental, or
biodiversitybackground; 1memberfrom the districtand local Akimats; 2 membersfrom farmers /
woman associations-altogether 7members.

Response. The composition of the Project Steering Committee was agreeduponwith the
Govemtnent of Kazakhstanand will consist o feleven members, including, the Vice Minister
Ministry o fEnvironmental Protection (Chairperson); Vice Minister,Ministryof Agriculture
(Co-chairperson); Head o f Department o fthe Ministryo f Economy and BudgetPlanning;
Director of Ecological Policy Department o fthe Ministry of EnvironmentalProtection; Headof
Division o fthe LandAgency; DeputyAkim of Karaganda oblast; Akim o f Shetski rayon;
Chairperson o f Oblast Association o f Dairy Enterprises; Director General o f Balkhash Sut Dairy
Plant; and Chairpersonof the Farmer Association o fthe Shetski Rayon. The Project
Management Unit Headwill act as ex-officio secretary.

Conclusion. In conclusionit can be stated that the budget of Component2 is rather high. The
remotely sensed data requirements could be reduced, usingexisting datafrom Kazakh and Russian
institutionsas monitoring tools. It is recommendedthat a reduced budgetbe transferred to Component
3, especially toparticipatory introducedpublic awareness and replication activitiesin the villages.
Budget exchanges between components2 and 3 -dependingon a necessary detailedrebudgeting-
could be an option (for component 3: $1.7 mio;for component2: $0.55 million)

Response: Pleasesee responseto these statements inthe precedingparagraphs.




                                                  -85-

                              Response to French Technical Comments

Theincremental CostAnalysis needs to be explained. I t also shows that withoutproject, theflnancial
resourcesfrom publicfunds would be very modest ~~D66,OOO)      as with theproject, Government will
invest USD 2 mln, which seems contradictory with the abovestatementof low resources.

Response. The Incremental Cost Analysis has been revised andi s providedinAnnex 11o f the
attachedProject Document.

It seems doubtfkl that 400farmers will invest an averageof USD4,500 each

Response. The project scope and costshave been revised; total project cost is US$9.70 million.
The project site o f 1.38 millionhahas anestimated 585 registered farms, with an average farm
size o f 1,070 ha. Each farm comprises several farmers so that although the project will target
152 farms inthe first year o fproject implementation, the project will directly benefit a larger
numberofbeneficiaries andstakeholdersinthe project area. Also, the on-farm demonstrations
and validation o ftechnologies on farmers' fields as well as rehabilitation o fcommunity-level
pasturelandswill increasethe scope o fimpact ofproject interventions both within and outside
the Shetsky rayon. Such a broadinclusiono f direct and indirectbeneficiaries underthe project
allows a reduced average contribution by each farmer towards implementation o fproject
interventions. Moreover, most farmer contributioni s in-kind, such as fuel, seeds, and small farm
machinery which they are able to afford and are willing to contribute to reap benefits expected
from shiftingto the more sustainable livestock-basedproductionsystem.

I t should also be explained why GEF isfinancing 40% of the component#Iwhich deals with
agricultural production.

Response. Component one -development o f sustainable landuses - is the primarythrust o fthe
project. Itdoes not deal with agricultural production, but i s designedto allow farmers to shift
from the current unsustainable cereal-basedproduction system to the traditional livestock-based
production system which will result insignificant local and global benefits. The global benefits
envisageduponimplementation o f component 1 inconjunctionwith other project components
include: (i)  increasedcarbon sequestrationfor climate change mitigation, (ii)  improved
biodiversity; and (iii)  control o flanddegradation. The incremental cost ofremoving obstaclesto
facilitate this move to the more sustainablelivestock-based productionsystem has been
calculated at US$5.27 million andjustifies the higherpercentageo fGEF financingrelativeto the
other components. GEF funds will promote the introduction, demonstration and dissemination
o frelevant low-cost technologies which otherwise would not have been made available to
farmers. Moreover, as local benefits expectedunder the project will be not be realized for some
years, it is likely that without GEF support the farmers would not adopt the proposedproject
interventions.



                                                -86-

On the other side, the ``~arbon~~aspect
                                     is relevantfor the GEF, even ifthe data seems very
optimistic.
Response. Please see ow response to this comment under the preceding section that addresses
comments from the German group.




                                            -87-

                                      Additional Annex 13
             EnvironmentalAssessment and Environmental ManagementPlan
                    KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT

Environmental Assessment
The global environmental objectives o fthis project are to reverse landdegradation, to improve
biodiversity, protect rare or endangeredflora and fauna, increasethe store o f carbon inbiomass
and the soils and to maintainifnot improve the soil quality. The proposedproject aims to
significantly expand the adoption o f appropriate and environmentally friendly pastoral agriculture
andpromote sustainablelandusepractices inthe rangelandareas ofcentral Asia.

An environmental assessment was made ofthe various project activities. Insummary, the
initiatives should leadto an increaseinthe quality and quantityo f flora and fauna, an
improvement to the soil and water quality and an increasedcarbon sequestration insoil and
biomass. Inconclusion, this project will have substantial environmental benefits. However, care
mustbe takento prevent(exotic) invasive and `weed' speciesbecoming dominant through a
carefbl choice o f seed and seedlings and through improvedmanagementpractices. Also farmers
should not be tempted to reverse long-term environmental gains byploughing grassland.
Meetings were held with the farmers andthey agreedto a bindingconditionality, which prevents
themfrom ploughingrehabilitatedgrazing land, unless there are exceptional circumstances;these
have to be agreedbythe local farmers andthe MEP. Inaddition, the project will provide
initiatives to increasethe availability o f feed, especially winter feed and presentmore
opportunities to sell animals, milk, meat etc., thus reducing the needto obtain cashfrom cereal
sales. Through better pasturemanagement, and an increasedprovision o fwinter feed, there will
be more farm animals. These will be housed inbarns duringthe winter. Thus, manure disposal
may cause aproblem and so steps will be taken to educatefarmers on environmental friendly
manuremanagementtechniques, especially its use inhay fields. Therefore, mitigationmeasures
are proposedto addressthe possible (negative) environmental impacts. These are shown in
Tables 1. below.

 Table 1.EnvironmentalManagementPlanfor KazakhstanProject: Environmental

 Issues            AnticipatedlPotential            Effects on Enviroiiment      Actions or Mitigation
                   EnvironmentalImpacts                                          Measures
 Abandoned         Increasedbiodiversity and        More sustainableuse o f      Formulate binding
 landreclaimed, carbon store, potential,            land, greaterbiodiversity    agreement with farmers &
 range-land        reduction o f invasive           and increasedC. storage.     MEPnotto plough
 management,       weedslpests and unpalatable More indigenous species.          reclaimed pastures.
 improved, no      weeds.                                                        Provide increasedmarket
 landconverted Probabilityof occurrence:                                         opportunities for animal
 back to arable    Moderate to High.                                             products.
 farming                                                                         Reclaimwatering points.
                                                                                 Provide training inland
                                                                                 management.
 Soil Quality      With the introduction o f        jBetter productive lands     Undertake soil monitoring o f



                                                  -88-

                better pastoral (and arable)   `withincreasedorganic       selectedareas to establish
                farming systems, soil quality matter and carbon            the effect o fbetter farming
                will improve.                  sequestration. More         systems on soil quality.
               Probability of occurrence:      microbiological activity.   Farmer training.
               High.
Insignificant  Ifthisoccursthentheglobal Mitigationmeasureswill Ensurethat specieschoice is
increase in    impact o fthe project would beincreasecarbon               appropriate for landand
carbon         greatly reduced.                sequestrationand           climate.
sequestration  Inturncould affect the whole biodiversity. These include Ensurethat choice ofplant
               ecosystemnegatively andthe reclaimingploughed areas species i s biased to those that
               anticipated increaseinanimal with local grasses and        will have a comparative
               off-take will not occur.        legumes, improved          advantage incarbon
               Probability of occurrence:      managemento f all           sequestration. Farmer
              Very Low.                        rangelands, increased      training.

I                                              grasses & shrubs on all    Install systems to measureand
                                               land-use tvpes.            monitor C. accumulation.
Biodiversity   Better rangelandmanagement Increasedbiodiversity on         Observe impacts o fnew plant
               &, conservationmeasures, fireall landusetypes. Pressureandanimalpopulations.
              management, contour              taken offpasturesand        Monitor biodiversity.
              planting, erosion protection     rangeland near habitations, Train beneficiaries in
               and snow capture with shrubs. thus encouragingplant         monitoring and sustainable
               Probabilityof occurrence:       recovery. Reduction o f     use o f species, especially
               High                             invasive species.          medicinalplantsetc.
Manure         Increasedanimal numbers         Effluentleeches into water Correct handling, storage and
management     may cause a manure storage &system, affects nutrient        use
               disposal problem duringthe      balance andpotable water. Farmer training and
               winter Probability of            Methane venting, (but low demonstration. Possible
               occurrence: Low.                 inwinter).                 methanecapture & use, but
                                                                           cost mav be high.



    Environmental Management Plan (EMP)

    A. MITIGATIONPLAN


Component           Potential Issues       Mitigation Measures               cost          Responsibilit
                                                                                           Y
Management o f      Inappropriate          Through demonstration and         Included      PMUaidedby
abandoned           ground preparation     training select correct           inthe         research
ploughed land:      and choice o f         techniques. Undertake species     project       institute and
seedingprogram & species,                  trials ifnecessary.Demonstrate    compone       Akimat
minimumtillage      managementpoor.        pasture management                nt.           officials.
etc.                Over grazing o f       techniques. Public awareness
                    reclaimed areas.       and reolication.


                                              -89-

Improvement to          Ground preparation    Through demonstration and          Lncluded   PMU aided by
natural pasturesand and choice o f            training select correct            inthe      research
rangelands.             species               techniques. Undertake species      project    institute and
                        inappropriate,        trials ifnecessary. Demonstrate    compone    Akimat
                        managementpoor.       pastureand rangeland               nt.        officials.
                        Over grazing o f      managementtechniques.
                        reclaimed areas       Public awareness and
                                              replication.
Livestockwatering       Poorly sited, lack    Choose sites carefully, using      Included   PMU,
points.                 ofmaintenance,        localknowledge rather than         inthe      contractor,
                        over grazing round    local influence. Provide           project    research
                        watering points.      training inmaintenance. Have       compone    institutes and
                        Breakdown o f         repair contract with provider.     nt.        Akimat
                        windmills leading     Provide training inrangeland       Maintena   officials.
                        to lack o fwater.     management.                        nce
                                                                                 contract
Increasedanimal         Insufficient and      Demonstrate proper housing         Included   PMUaidedby
numbersinwinter         poor storage          facilities for cattle that include inthe      research
housing facilities.     facilities for cattle waste management, storage and project         institute and
                        andcattle waste.      disposal. Demonstrate the use      compone    Akimat
                        Inappropriate         o forganic fertilizes on           nt.        officials.
                        disposal. Seepage     pastureskitchen gardens etc.
                        o fwaste into         Take measuresto prevent
                        groundwater and       methaneventing; examine
                        well water supply.    economics o fmethane capture
                                              and use.
Waste disposal          Poor storage and      Ensurethat new agro-industries     Included   PMU
problems from           disposal facilities   comply with laws. Survey           inthe      contractor's
agro-industries.        for animal, milk      existingindustries; recommend      project    research
                        andmeat products.     improvedwaste storage I            compone    institute
                                              disposal. Study economic o f       nt.        Akimat
                                              waste use.                                    officials,
                                                                                            MEP.

B. MONITORINGPLAN
The PMUwill perform regular monitoringand evaluation o fproject activities. At the
micro-level itwill supervise the various activities to ensure that they are beingundertaken
according to the mitigationplan described in`A' above. Where contractors are involved, the
contract should include clauses about conformingto standards workmanship andresponsibilities
etc.

This pilot project is o fglobal significance. Thus, the collection o finformationat the macro-level
i s important. Data will be collected on carbon sequestration, biodiversity and soils, A baseline
sample survey o forganic carbon insoils and plants will be undertaken at representative sites
throughout the project area. Similarly, a survey will be undertaken o fflora and fauna and its



                                                 -90-

quality and quantity. Lastlythe soils will be tested for mineral content and organic matter as well
as soil depthetc. Carbonwill be monitored closely inthe soil andplants and will be measured
duringthe growing seasonfor five years. This is described indetail inAnnex 2 andthe
equipment andpersonnel requirements are given inSection 3.1 o f the Cost Tables. Therefore,
only a summary will be givenhere. Biodiversityre-surveys will be undertaken yearly as will the
testing o f soils. The PMUwill be responsible for M& E. In-country specialists will receive
additional training ifandwhen required. Inaddition, local people will berecruited to monitor
flora and fauna. Environmental monitoring will be incorporated inthe overallproject monitoring
requiredbythe World Bankas parto fproject performance. The results o f suchmonitoringwill
be recorded and maintained bythe PMUthroughout the project's lifetime.




                     TheParameter(@                                           Cost     Responsib
                                                                                       ility
          'hase      What      Where       How        When         Why        Install  Operate
                     is to be   is it to be assessed/ is it to be Is it                Install
                     assessed? assessed? type of      assessed? assessed
                                            equipment              (optional)
                                            ?                      ?
          laseline Carbon      At           Organic C At the       To         Use      PMU and
                     storage in selected    determinat start and atdetermine existing research
                      lants and sites and ion o f      set
                                scaledup plant and intervals.
                                            soil
                                            samples in
                                            lab.
          :onstructi N/A                    Equipment
          n                                 incl. in
                                            project
          )perate    Carbon    At           Biomass Plant and To record Included Included
                     storage in selected    and soil   soil C      increaseininthe     inthe
                     plants and sites.      measured measured C storage project        project.
                     soil.                  for C      at set      at different
                                            content    intervals. sites.




                     Theparameter(s1                                           Cost    Responsib
                                                                                       ility
        Phase        What      Where        How        When        Why        Install  Operate
                     is to be   is it to be assessed/ is it to be Is it                Install


                                                 -91 -

           assessed? assessed? type of      assessed? assessed
                                eq~ipmen~               (optional)
                                 3                      7
Baseline Plant and At           Sample      At the     determine Use          PMU.
           animal    selected   surveys     start and existing     experts,
           species   sites.     and local over time. and           staff and
           and                  observatio             change in local
           incidence            ns,                    plant/      people.
                                                       animal
                                                       numbers.
Constructi N/A                  Simple
on                              survey
                                equipment

Operate    Monitor   At the      Sample     At specificTo record As above. Included
           plant and same sites. survey andintervals, increasein              inthe
           animal N o            local      butin       flora &               project.
           over time             observatio same        fauna.
                                ns.         months.
Decommission. N/A


                    Table 3.3. Soil Monitoring Program
           Theparameter(s)                                         cost       Responsil
                                                                              ility
'hase      What      Where       How        When        Why        Install    Operate
            is to be is it to be assessed / is it to be Is it                 Install
           assessed? assessed? eq~ipmentassessed? assessed
                                 ?                      (optional)
                                                        7
5aseline Soil        At          Soil       Atthe       To         Use        PMUand
           quality   selected    sampled instart        determine existing    research
                     sites.      laboratory.            N,P&K laboratory institutes.
                                                        at same    facilities.
                                                        time as
                                                        organic C.
:onstructi NIA                   Equipment
In                               incl. inthe
                                 project
)perate    Water     At          Soil        At specificTo record Included Included
           quality   selected    sampled inintervals, nutrient inthe          inthe
                     sites.      laboratory. but in     content in project.   project.
                                             same       soil types.
                                             months



                                      - 92 -

        IDecommission. NIA      I

Originally, the project was goingto use pesticides to try anddiminish invasive andunpalatable
species. Butbecause farmers have difficulty purchasing pesticides and are not familiar with
using them, this component has beendropped. Inits place mechanical scraping will be tried
coupled with phosphate application and reseeding with indigenous species, especially perennial
legumes that can out perform the invasive and unpalatable species.

Another potential problem is that the water table at the proposedrehabilitated well sites may be
insufficient to permanently supply the cattle duringthe summer months. This is unlikely,
because the wells were inuse before collectivization and each well has a potential recharge area
ofover 10km2. However, the project and the local officials will monitorthe groundwater to
ensure that it is not being depleted.

C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING

1.      EquipmentPurchases
The PMUwill have maps ofthe 11sub-districts and these will be used to denote where the
sampling will take place or has been carried out. The PMU should have two GPS devices and
these will be used to pinpointthe sampling sites etc. Some equipment will be providedbythe
people undertaking the various surveys or doinganalysis inthe laboratory; this has been included
inthe estimated cost. Forexample, the people undertakingthe survey offlora and fauna should
have simple equipment, key books and equipment to store plants andanimals for identification
when necessary. When undertaking assessments o f organic carbon inplants, weighing scales and
moisture content meters are required, as are specimen bags, etc. This should be provided by the
people undertaking the survey, but the PMU should have extra equipment. This list is given in
Table 4 below under `biomass measuring equipment.' The cost is estimated to be US$2,910.

While most of the soil testing will be for soil carbon, testing for other minerals (N& P) and
organic material is important and will be done at the same time as testing for organic carbon.
Some additional equipment is required such as spades, soil sampler, soil depth meter, plastic
bags and other consumables. The cost this equipment is estimated at US$3,530, (Table 4).

A list ofthe major equipment for carbon stock assessment, including soil analysis is givenbelow,
Justification for the equipment is included inthe main report and inAnnex 2. This new
equipment costs US$77,650 and the laboratory will use equipment and consumables valued at
US$70,000. Their contract work is valued at US$70,000 and recurrent costs come to
US$46,700, giving a total of US$264,350 for this assessment of carbon stock. These costs are
elaborated inthe Costing Table (Annex 6?). Similarly, the costs for biodiversity monitoringare
summarized inTable 4 (US$189,100) andi s detailed inthe Costing Tables.

The project will also purchase throughthe tendering system 40 wind mills for water pumpingat a
cost of about UDS$6,000 each, including maintenance and spares for five years. Thus, the total
cost will be US$240,000. This will be a trial to se ifthe pumps are robust enough to withstand
the variable wind speeds. Also, siting ofthe windmills is important to ensure that there is


                                                 - 93 -

 sufficient wind to enablethe pumpsto function adequately.


         Type of Equipment




 Compass                                        4           5     20    L
 Camera                                         4         45     180    L




 Camera                                         2          45     90    L
 Soil sampler                                   2       1.ooo  2.000    L




 GPSmar2ing(handset monitor?)                   2       1,400  2,800    I    I

 GPS sampling                                   1         300    300    I
 Computer graphics station                      1       4,000  4,000    I
 Computer notebook                              2       2,500  5,000    I
 Plotter                                        1       7,800  7,800    I
 Scanner                                        1     12,000   12,ooc   I




I                                   1             I          I       I       I



                                             - 94 -

 Coreldraw 10                                         1         550          5501          I
 Miscellaneous equipment -lump                        1       3,000        3,000           I
 sum
 Sub-total                                                                77,650
 Value of Institute equipment (5            Lumpsum                       70,000
 vears)
 Recurrent costs for 5 years              Lumpsum                   46,700
 Sampling and analysis contract 5 Lump sum                           70,000
 years
 Total, excluding T A                                               264,350

Wind mills                                40           6,000         240.000     L
3io-diversity monitoring
rents                                     Lumpsum      3,500        3,500        L
;mall equipment                           Lumpsum      13,000        13,000      L
Sub-total                                                           16,500
Jalue of Institute equipment for 5 Lump sum            6,000        30,000
rrs
iecurrent costs for 5 years               Lumpsum                   142,600
l'OTAL                                                               189,100
 Note. The recurrent cost items are specified inCost Tables and so arejust summarizedhere.

 2.      Trainingstudy Tours
 Environmental training will be undertaken at several levels. There will be formal courses for
 project staff, farmers and other beneficiaries. There will informal discussions duringmeetings
 with village groups etc., there will be demonstrations of environmentally friendly practices and
 there will be site visits to various areas within the project as well as other areas within
 Kazakhstan. The training will cover land-use planning, environmental management, monitoring
 and mitigation. Also, farmers with windmill will receive training intheir maintenance. A s the
 project proceeds, environmental training will be tailored to the lessons learnt from the project
 and the changing needs ofthe beneficiaries. Thus, the following table (Table 5) covers the
 present proposals, but is subject to change.

                                   and Del onstratio courses
  Type of Training                 Organi      Job      Duration   ITiming     Venue Institute      cost
                                   zation Trainers                                                  US$

                                                                               ~                    local
Environmental             5        'roject                                    'reject Consultan   ,000
awareness for specific             itaff    [mplemen               Spring     rea     t a n d o r :ach for 5
components;                                 tation                 of each            MEP         rears.
reseeding,                                  staff                  year.                          5,000)
improvement of
natural pastures,
handlingofpesticides,


                                                  - 95

:tc.
 Manure storage,            5     Project Implemen Two days Inthe        Project Consultant2,000, for
handlinganduse                     staff   tation     t        Spring    area    s,         5 years.
(Training o ftrainers).                    staff               o f each          MEP        10,000.
Trainbeneficiaries,                                            year.
Environmentally             5      Project Staffand Oneday     Throug Project All staff     Part o f
friendly land-use                  staff   beneficiar          h-out yr area                general
practices. Train staff                                         for 5 yrs
and beneficiaries.
                                                                                            F
Establish
demonstrations                                                                   I          I
Environmental               All   Project Staff, Min                     Project Project      ,000 per
training and                school staff                       h-out     area    school       ear for 5
demonstration to            S?             (teachers)          year              teachers     ears.
schools. (tryto obtain                                                                      (20,000)
other fimds for
nurseries and posters
etc.
Training in                                                              Project Project    4,000 per
Environmental                      staff                                 area     schools   year- 5
activities for                                                                              yrS..
beneficiaries.                                                                              (20,000)
Training inshrub
        -              /Farms /Farmers ITA            Half-day Through Project ConsultantPart o fTA
                                                      +
planting inrangelands                      specialist          -out yea1 zrea               budget
Carbonstock                 2                         One week Year 1 Tobe        CSA        2,000
issessment:                       Istaff ICSA
                                   CSA.
                                           experts             & 5       decided Institute
                           ~


workshop: Local.
Sarbonstock                 2      RS staffRS                            r o b e  ForeignR 14,000
                                           experts                       decided S Institute

,oca1 remote sensing                                                     Tobe     R S        1,000
raining: Short course.                     exuerts                       decided Institute
,oca1 remote sensing 2             R.S.    R S        One week Year 1
raining: Workshop.                 staff   experts                       decided Institute
                                                                                 IRS        12,OO0
:oreign remote              3      RSstaffRS          Two days Yr. l(2: To be     ForeignR 3,000
;ensingtraining: Short                     experts             Yr. 4 (1: decided S Institute
;owe.
7oreign remote              1      RS staffRS         One week Yr. 2     Tobe     R S        5,000
;ensing training: Study                    experts                       decided Institute
our.
rraining inwindmill 40             Farmers Contractoi                    At       Contractor Incl in
naintenance                                S          decided  Y r 3     windmill s          contract.
                                                                         S
rraining insurvey      111        /project lStaff             l1
                                                         ~


                                                                         Project Villagel    Project
                                                      one-day    per

                                                 - 96 -

/techniques*                        staff                              year for area   school;    cost
                                                                       5 years        halls
                            11      Project Staff          One-day      1per   Project Villagel   Project
  echniques.                        staff                              yearfor area    school     cost
To recognize plant and                                                 5 years         halls.
animal species. Train
  eneficiaries including
children to undertake

  1. This i s requiredto survey local people to obtain indigenous knowledge. Some beneficiaries can be
       used as trainers and to locate areas of important andlor rare species.

  3.        Consultant Services
  Consultants andor staff &om the MEP should train project staff inenvironmentally friendly
  farmingpractices whenundertaking specific components suchas reseeding, improvement o f
  natural pastures, handling, storage anduse ofpermittedpesticides, integrated pest management
  etc. After this training, project staffwill ensure that the various operations are undertaken with
  minimumenvironmental damage. Someofthe proposedmeasureare contour ploughing,
  minimumtillage, usingindigenous seeds and seedlings, appropriate time for undertakingground
  preparation, avoiding areas o frare, endangeredor commercially important plants or breeding
  grounds for birds etc. Demonstrations will be laid out throughout the project area so that the
  project staffcan take farmers to them and also advise the farmers about appropriate methods,
  seeds andtechnology.

  Consultancy contracts will be givento agencieswithin Kazakhstan through the Competitive
  Grant System. These will be for Biodiversity Monitoringestimated to be about US$190,000
  over the five year periodand Carbon Sock Assessment (including soil analysis) valued at about
  US$263,000 over 5 years. The TOR have been drafted by the project managementteam and will
  be circulated for comments. Inaddition there will be foreign and localtechnical assistance
  valued at US$93,000 and US$7,500 respectively. And as stated inTable 5 above, there will be
  training incarbon stock assessmentandremote sensingvalued at US$28,000.

  Technical assistancei s requiredfor the shrubnursery establishment, to advise on the plantingo f
  belts o fgrasses and shrubs inrangelands and to provide training and advice to farmers about
  shrub establishment andtending. A local specialist with experience inthese fields will be
  required for six months each year for five years. The estimated cost for such a specialist is
  US$1,640 permonthincluding all allowances. Thus the total cost for 5 years is US$49,200.

  The windmillcontractor will supply training inwindmill maintenance to the farmers where the
  windmills are installed. This is part o fthe contract cost.

  4.        Special Studies: None needed.

  D.SCHEDULE
  The mitigation andmonitoring o froutine activities are given inTable 5 above for the Trainers,



                                                      -97-

Inturn, the trainers willtrainbeneficiaries to undertake the necessarymitigationactivities.
Monitoring o fthese activities will be carried out bythe PMU or bypeople designatedbythem.
Biodiversitymonitoring and carbon sequestrationassessmentwill beundertakenby specialized
agencies such as researchinstitutes. Inaddition, there will be monitoring o fthe ground water at
the restoredwells to ensure that the groundwater i s not being depleted. There is a nationwide
locust control project. Through project activities, the breeding grounds for locusts should be
reduced. The project will monitor this to see ifthe incidence o flocusts decreases.


E.INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTS
The monitoring o fbio-diversity andwill be underthe supervision o fthe MEP. In-country
specialists will receive additional training ifand when required. A baseline survey o fplants and
animals will be undertaken inyear 1at stratified randomsites. Re-surveysat the same sites will
occur throughout the project's lifetime. Inaddition local people will be recruited to monitor flora
and fauna species especially birdsand large animals. Analysis o fresults will be undertaken at
reputable institutes.

 A baseline surveyofcarboninbiomassandthe soil willbe undertakeninYear 1usingstratified
random samplingtechniques. Re-surveying will beundertaken inat specific intervals duringthe
project's lifetime. Soil carbon measurementswill betaken during eachgrowing seasonandused
to model sequestration potential. . Analysis o fresults will beundertaken at reputable institutes
and verification will be done by independent organizations. This verification i s necessaryif
Kazakhstan wishes to trade sequesteredcarbon or use it for offset purposes. Inaddition
measurementswill be made o f carbon inabove andbelow ground biomass.

Underthe MEPlMOA the PMUandespecially the PIUwould havethe overallresponsibility for
carbon sequestration determination, environmental monitoring, mitigation, and performance. The
PMUhas developed an implementationplanfor carbon sequestrationmeasurement, biodiversity
monitoring and soil and ground water monitoring at well sites and collecting and analyzing o f all
the relevant data. Fieldtechnicians will analyze various data andtogether with laboratory
technicians prepare quarterly and annual reports and will sendthem to the PMUlintemational
consultant for evaluations. Within Kazakhstan there is a government Climate Change Council
responsible for all matters dealing with the variods related protocols. This council will be fully
informed about the purpose o f carbon sequestration measurementsand seek their advice on
reporting methodologies. Similarly, estimates o fbiodiversity and soil quality etc. will be in
conformity to agreed standards. At the end o feach year inwhich measurementstook place, all
data will be summarized inausable form for the benefit o f stakeholders includingthe WB, GM,
MEP and MOA. These latter bodies will have authority to modify the EMP ifnecessaryas a
result o freceived datdinformation.




                                                -98-

F.CONSULTATIONWITHLOCALNGOSAND PROJECT-AFFECTEDGROUPS
The project started to be formulated in 1999. Since then, numerous meetings and discussions
were heldwith government ministries, researchinstitutes andNGOs inAlmaty, Astana,
Karaganda and Shotandy. Included inthe discussions were environmental concerns andthe
overall positive benefit this pilot project should have on the environment. Three sites were
visited as potential areas for the project. After exhaustive consultations, the northern part o f
Shetsky Rayonwas chosen.

Fieldtrips were made to ShetskyRayonandextensive talks andmeetings were heldwith local
officials, farmers' business people, andwomen groups etc. For example, three Project Meetings
heldinAstana, betweenconsultants, staff andministryofficials etc. were highlightedonTV.
Two press statementswere submittedto the MEP for release. Project information was provided
to the CCD for publicationinUNDP documents. Informationhasbeen sent to various
international agencies suchas CIDA, USAID and ICARDA.

Project andWorld Bank Staffhave made several presentations to `Environmental' groups. In
parallel to these meetinga social survey was undertaken,including attitudes to the environment.
All these activities are documentedandare onproject's files. Talks anddiscussions are
continuing with full participation of the beneficiaries. As a result, an EnvironmentalAssessment
was made with the inputso f local people and environmental experts. This assessmentwas then
usedto compile this Environmental Management Plan. As this i s apilot project, it i s probable
that some o fthe environmental planswill be adjusted (and improved) as lessonsare leamt.
However, bythe end ofthe project, it is anticipated that farmers within the rayon and
neighbouring farmers will adopt many o fthe project initiatives, leadingto sustainable
managemento fthe pastures, grasslands and rangelands o fthe region. Not only that, the GEF
project should have a catalytic effect on national and regional initiatives for governments, donors
andInternational lendingagencies, includingWorldBank.

The project will have severalother benefits includingpublic awareness, capacity buildingfrom
the beneficiaries and private firms to government agencies. Training is an important component
Jfthe project. Besides givingtraining inthe immediate arca, the project will bringpeople from
areas o fKazakhstan andthe region with similar climatic conditions. They will receive hands-on
training so that they will be able to use this experience to undertake similar initiatives intheir
own country or area. Thus replicationthroughout the regionand beyond i s anticipated.
Therefore considerable domestic and global benefits should result from this pilot GEF initiative.

At present, a localconsultant is developing PR activities to makethe projectwidelyavailable.
Currently, this report is beingtranslated andan actionplanwill be drawnup to make it available
to a wide audience especially the local people, but also NGOs. Thus, the Environmental
Management Planwill be made available incountry for perusal and discussion, especially bythe
affected people. Also, itwill be made available onthe World Bank's Web site.




                                                 - 99 -

                                     AdditionalAnnex 14
                            Summary Descriptionof Project Area
                   KAZAKHSTAN:DRYLANDSMANAGEMENTPROJECT

1.      Project activities will be implementedineleven sub-districts located inthe northernzone
o f Shetskyrayon (district), Karaganda oblast (department). The area is characterized by acute
rural povertywhere poor soil, climatic, and ecological conditions restrict economic development
opportunities. This areawas selectedaccording to the following criteria
    (i)two-thirds of the cereal areas are unprofitable (less than 600 kgha) or are abandoned;
    (ii) soilsaresuitableforintroductionofsustainablelandusepractices,e.g,sown
        the
        fodderlpastureslrangelandor rehabilitationo fnatural vegetation;
    (iii)       averageannual rainfall i s below 300 "/year;
    (iv) highlevels ofpoverty;
    (v)the site is easily accessiblefor demonstration purposes; and
    (vi)the project zone is representative to allow replicability o factivities inandoutside the
        country.

Beinglocatedat the cross between steppe andsemi-desert, where cereal cropping is marginal,
andonthe roadbetweenthe two most important cities inKazakhstan, Almaty andAstana for
demonstration purpose, the Shetzky rayonfits these criteria (see maps inthe last annex)

2.      Climate.The project arealieswithintwo naturalzones: steppe and semi-desert. Rainfall
inthe steppezonerangesfrom 250 to 300 mmandinthe semi-desert zone from 150to 250 mm.
The climate i s acutely continental, with extremely cold winter (extreme o f -49 "C) andrelatively
hot summers (extreme o ft-40 "C).Soil freezes up to a deptho ftwo meters underground in
winter. There are 110-185 frost-free days per year andthe sumo fpositive temperatures during
vegetation period(> 10"C)is 2000-2300 "C. The whole regioni s characterized by strong winds
(up to 40 meterper second), which causeintense soil erosion andblow away snow duringwinter
time, thus reducing soil absorption o fprecipitation,

3.      Soils. The soils range from relatively poor light chestnut soils with low organic matter
levels, to dark chestnut soils, which are relatively fertile, well structured and able to retain
moisture. The more fertile soils are found inthe higher rainfall area: andthere is a greater
biodiversityo f grasses. Most o fthe lighterless fertile soils are abandonedor underpasture and
grassland.

4.      Populationandinfrastructure. Total population inthe elevendistricts is about 19,500
contained within some 3,368 families livingin34 villages. The villages are connectedbypaved
roads, primaryschools are available inall villages and inthe lager villages there are secondary
schools. There are severalmedical care facilities and small rural clinics. Most retail trade is
carried out by small, privately managed stores. Distances to the Oblast capital Karaganda vary
between90and190km.

5.      LandUse. After the peak ofVirginLands Schemeat the end ofthe 1960s, there has
been a gradual reduction o fcropping andanunregulated invasionof weeds on lands no longer



                                                - 100-

used inagricultural rotations, At the present time there are 0.5. millionha o f abandonedarable
lands inKaragandaOblast alone. The unchecked weeds have spread into adjacent cultivated
areas. The unused lands overgrown with weeds are not suitable for pasturesandhayfelds and the
processo f grasslandrestoration through natural successioncan take more than 50 years.

6.      The proposedproject areacovers some 1.38 millionhectaresandthe bulk ofthe landis
classified as rangeland, much o fwhich is degradeddue to a lack o fmanagementand frequent
fires. The make up o flanduse as at December 2001 i s shown inTable 1below; see Working
Paper 3 for a detailed breakdown o f landuse and ownership by category.




ponfarmLAND2              8,951     1.4     598     0.6 10,195     4.7  42,533     9.8 62,277  4.5
TOTAL                   626,2 12   100 102,272      100216,452    100 434,628      1001,379,56 100
                                                                                             4




7.      Currently, the area o fploughed landi s around 33,300 ha, which i s less than 20% ofthe
180,000 landploughed at the peak o fthe VirginLand Scheme (Working Paper 3, Table 2). This
meansthat almost 150,000 ha o fpreviouslyploughed landshave been abandonedduringthe past
twenty to thirtyyears. Landhasbeenabandonedwith a stronger pace after the collapse o fthe
Soviet Union, becausethe increase o f input costs made farming unprofitable inthis marginal
environment. The recuperation o fnatural revegetation on abandoned land i s slow due to strong
winds; natural busheswhich providedwindprotectioninnatural conditions have difficulty to
compete with weeds which have a more rapidgrowth. The periodfor total recuperation o f initial


                                                - 101 -

balance across different species ranges from 40 to 60 years.

8.      Total areaunder pastures and grasslandi s around 1.2 millionhectares, including0.8
millionhectares with a stable source o f good qualitypasture. However, livestock movement is
limitedbylack o fdrinkingwater: more than 80% o fpasturezone dependsonartificial water
sources, including 310well points and 79 shaft wells. Oftenthese water points do not operate
due to the absenceo fwater liftingequipment and lack of power supply. Over 300,000 hectareso f
valuable pasturescannot be used given lack o fwatering points. Only those pasturesadjacent to
settlementsare beingused, causing over-grazing around the villages and absenceo fpasturing
intervals, these lands are losingtheir productivity and being gradually abandoned. The more
productive distant pastures are not used since they lack watering points for the cattle.

9.      Farmstructure. There are 585 farms registeredinthe project area, most ofwhich
comprise more than one farming family. The average farm size i s 1,070 ha, but45% o f farms
have an averagearea o f 300 ha, see Table 2 below.


  Size category           No. o f       Percentage          Total area         Percentage     Average size
      (ha.)                farms         o ffarms              (ha.)             o f area        (ha.)
  Less than 500                 264              45            78,490                    12          297
    500 - 1000                  155              27           105,241                    17          679
   1000 - 2000                   95               16          136,307                    22        1,435
   2000 - 5000                   52               9           150,954                    24       2,903
   Above 5000                    19               3           155,220                    25        8,169
  Totallaverage                 585             100           626,212                   100        1,070




10.     Almost halfthe farms have an area o fless than 500 ha. The project will concentrate on
improvingthe pastures and rangelands on these farms, while at the same time givingadvice and
demonstrating improvedpastoral practices to all interested farmers, especially those within the
project area.

11.     Livestock Numbers. At present, there are about 25,000 cattle, including 6,500 dairy
cows, 23,000 sheep and 10,600 horsesinthe project area. In`Animal Unit' (AU) terms this is
equivalent to a total o f about 33,000 (an animal unit i s the equivalent o fa full-grown 500 Kg
cow plusa calf). This representsone AU per 50 ha. Under improvedrangeland, the potential
carrying capacity i s one AU each20 ha., or about 2.5 times more livestock thanthere i s at
present.

12.     Household Survey: A baseline socioeconomic survey has been carried out inthe project
area inJuly/August 2001, covering a sample o f 102households and 101heads o fprivate farms.
The surveyshowed that some 25% o fthe farms are handled by a single family, while another
45% have 2 - 5 families working together. The survey confirmed the importance o f livestock as
a source o fhousehold incomewith 98% o fthe households having cattle, and over 60% having


                                               - 102-

sheep andhorses. Milk, cattle meat andhides are the products most commonly sold. Potatoes
and vegetables gown on householdplots are almost totally consumed bythe family, as are some
o fthe milk and meat products, particularly those from sheep and goats. The surveyhighlights
the difficulty ofmarketingproducts inthe areadueto distance andhighcost oftransport, as well
as the lack o fmarket informationavailable to farmers. The survey also confirmedthe
unprofitable nature o fwheat production with yields o f about 500-600kgha. Sometimes the large
distances between homes and land, botharable andpasture, is also a factor leading to
abandonmento fland. Unemployment is highandthere is a tendency for the younger people to
move out o fthe area.

13.     This annex is a summary ofthe following working papers:-- Working Paper 1:Baseline
Socioeconomic & Diagnostic Survey; Working Paper2: Economic Background Data and
Overview o fFarmingSystems inShetskyRayon and Project Area; Working Paper 3: LandUse
Data for Shetsky Rayon and Project Area. (For more details, please refer to the original working
papers available inboth Englishand Russian),




                                              -103  -


MAP SECTION


