                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001720




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-52161)

                                       ON A

                 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.27 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                       FOR A

                    DRYLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                               November 2, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective September 28, 2010)

                           Currency Unit = Tenge
                           Tenge 1 = US$0.0068
                            US$1 = Tenge 147

                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1 ­ June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACP       Agricultural Competitiveness Project
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCA       Chemical Control Agent
CIMMYT    International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CO2       Carbon Dioxide
DMP       Drylands Management Project
EA        Environmental Assessment
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EPIC      Erosion Productivity Impact Calculator
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GEO       Global Environmental Objectives
GIS       Geographical Information System
GOK       Government of Kazakhstan
IBG       Institute of Botany and Geophysics
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
JSC       National Center of Space Research and Technologies
KZT       Kazakhstan Tenge
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MEP       Ministry of Environmental Protection
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
NAP       National Action Plan
NEAP      National Environmental Action Plan
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
NPV       Net Present Value
OLZHA-9   Association of Farmers in Shetsky Rayon
OPCS      Operations Policy and Country Services
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDF-B     Project Development Facility Brief
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PMU       Project Management Unit
QAE       Quality at Entry
QSA       Quality of Supervision
TA        Technical Assistance
UN        United Nations
UN-CCD    United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification
UN-FCCC   United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
USDA      United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service
UUU       Institute of Soil Science and Agro-Chemistry (U.U.Uspanov, Ltd.)




                      Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
                    Country Director:   Motoo Konishi
                     Sector Manager:    John Kellenberg
                   Task Team Leader:    Michael G. Carroll
                   ICR Team Leader:     Michael G. Carroll
                                      KAZAKHSTAN
                             Drylands Management Project (DMP)


                                                  CONTENTS

 
    A. Basic Information ................................................................................................ i 
    B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................ i 
    C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................ i 
    D. Sector and Theme Codes.................................................................................... ii 
    E. Bank Staff ........................................................................................................... ii 
    F. Results Framework Analysis ............................................................................. iii 
    G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ....................................................... viii 
    H. Restructuring (if any) ...................................................................................... viii 
    I. Disbursement Graph ........................................................................................... ix 
    1 Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................... 1 
    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................... 4 
    3 Assessment of Outcomes ..................................................................................... 9
    4 Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................. 13 
    5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................. 14 
    6. Lessons Learned................................................................................................ 16
    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners... 16 
    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................. 18 
    Annex 2. Outputs by Component.......................................................................... 19 
    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ......................................................... 21 
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..... 26 
    Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................... 28 
    Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ........................................... 31 
    Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............. 33 
    Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............... 34 
    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .............................................................. 35 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Drylands Management
Country:                Kazakhstan              Project Name:
                                                                          GEF Project
Project ID:             P071525                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-52161
ICR Date:               11/09/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          KAZAKHSTAN
Original Total
                        USD 5.3M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 5.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.3M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Environmental Protection
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Local Farmer Organizations

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/26/2000     Effectiveness:             03/26/2004       01/20/2004
Appraisal:            04/11/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/19/2003     Mid-term Review:           10/08/2006       10/19/2006
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2009       03/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                          No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                      20                  50
Crops                                                                  30                  30
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       50                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                         50                  50
Land administration and management                                     50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:           Philippe H. Le Houerou                 Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:         Motoo Konishi                          Dennis N. de Tray
Sector Manager:           John V. Kellenberg                     Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project Team Leader:      Michael G. Carroll                     Bulat Utkelov
ICR Team Leader:          Michael G. Carroll
ICR Primary Author:       Angel Alberto Yanosky




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

  The development objective of the project was to demonstrate and promote sustainable
land uses in the marginal dryland ecosystem of a pilot area in the Shetsky rayon (a district
in the southern part of the Karaganda oblast - province). The proposed project was a pilot
activity that would test the environmental, social and economic viability of shifting from
the current unsustainable cereal-based production system to the traditional livestock-
based production system.
  To support this objective, the project - with active participation of local communities #
was designed to assist the Government of Kazakhstan to: (i) develop sustainable land use
systems; (ii) provide initial service support to producer groups; (iii) improve national
capacity to quantify carbon sequestration; and (iv) undertake a broad public awareness
campaign and develop a strategy so that project interventions could be replicated in
similar areas of Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries. By promoting sustainable
land use practices, the project emphasized an integrated ecosystem management approach
to achieving ecological, economic and social goals that was expected to yield benefits at
a local, regional and global level.

  Project Global Environmental Objectives

  The project's global environmental objectives were: (i) improved knowledge on
quantification and monitoring of carbon sequestration under different land use types; (ii)
increased carbon sequestration for climate change mitigation; (iii) improved biodiversity;
and (iv) control of land degradation.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally     Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target      Completion or
                                               documents)           Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Increase of area with sustainable land use.
                                                                              A total of 35,179 ha
                                                                              were re-vegetated
Value                                        30,000 ha to be re-              with perennials that
(quantitative or Project area is not in use. vegetated with                   were used mainly
Qualitative)                                 perennials.                      for hay production
                                                                              and winter feeding
                                                                              of livestock.



                                                 iii
Date achieved      10/01/2004                   10/01/2009                           03/31/2010
Comments           Indicator fully achieved. The total area rehabilitated during the project life has
(incl. %           exceeded by 15% the amount targeted, successfully using different techniques
achievement)       for land use.
Indicator 2 :      Better estimation of future carbon sequestration under different land use types.
                                                                                     The needed
                                                                                     information for
                                                The model to
                                                                                     carbon
                                                calculate carbon
                                                                                     quantification
                                                sequestration in
                   No data on carbon                                                 model was
                                                soils for different
Value              sequestration in                                                  collected and is
                                                types of
(quantitative or   Kazakhstan dry steppe                                             available. The
                                                agricultural use is
Qualitative)       zone during last twenty                                           model has been
                                                developed and
                   five years.                                                       created and is
                                                tested in and
                                                                                     prepared for
                                                outside of the
                                                                                     replication outside
                                                project territory.
                                                                                     of the project
                                                                                     territory.
Date achieved      10/01/2004                   10/01/2009                           03/31/2010
Comments           Indicator achieved. The model has been developed and is available to be applied
(incl. %           in other regions of Kazakhstan outside the project territory. Pilot applications
achievement)       have been tested in neighboring districts.
Indicator 3 :      Improvement of income and living standards of beneficiary population.
                                                                                     Total income in 20
                                                                                     farms selected for
                                                                                     monitoring was
                   Villages have incurred
                                                                                     around US$
                   heavy economic losses in
                                                                                     100,000 (KZT
                   the process of               Income and living
                                                                                     14,748,100) in
Value              privatization in             standards of
                                                                                     2005. While in
(quantitative or   agriculture. Areas under beneficiary
                                                                                     2008 it has
Qualitative)       crops have been reduced population are
                                                                                     increased to around
                   considerably, livestock improved.
                                                                                     US$ 450,000 (KZT
                   has been contracted
                                                                                     KZT 66,494,550).
                   substantially.
                                                                                     Farmers have
                                                                                     increased their
                                                                                     livestock number.
Date achieved      10/01/2004                   10/01/2009                           03/31/2010
Comments           Indicator fully achieved. Although income increases identified by the survey may
(incl. %           not be fully attributable to project interventions, the rates of return of main
achievement)       project activities suggest a direct correlation with income generation.
Indicator 4 :      Increased biodiversity; increased sustainability of threatened species.
                                                Protection of                        Scientific research,
                   Some plant and animal
                                                natural habitats of                  conducted in
                   species became extinct
Value                                           many endangered                      project area, proved
                   over the years after the
(quantitative or                                species by                           environmental
                   Soviet Virgin Lands
Qualitative)                                    improving                            rationale for use of
                   Campaign, some are
                                                management of                        wheatgrass for
                   severely endangered.
                                                pastures and                         restoration of fields



                                                    iv
                                            rangelands.                        and biodiversity.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                    10/01/2009                         03/31/2010
Comments         Research carried out by the project has demonstrated that the management of
(incl. %         lands and better land use practices contributed to conserve and improve local
achievement) biodiversity of key steppe vegetational communities.
Indicator 5 : Reduced soil erosion.
                                                                               Total area of the
                                            Land erosion is
                                                                               Shetsky Rayon
                                            controlled and
                 Cereal-based production                                       used for production
                                            minimized by
Value            system with annual                                            of cereals in year
                                            shifting from
(quantitative or plowing underpins                                             1993 was 148,800
                                            cereals to
Qualitative)     continuous soil wind and                                      ha. In 2008 the
                                            sustainable land
                 water erosion                                                 grain area had been
                                            use for mainly
                                                                               reduced to 21,600
                                            animal husbandry.
                                                                               ha.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                    10/01/2009                         03/31/2010
Comments
                 Dramatic reduction in cultivated area was achieved. No target was established at
(incl. %
                 appraisal; no percentage of achievement can be reported.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                              Revised
                                             approval                           Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Re-vegetation of abandoned cereal land on 30,000 ha.
                                                                              Total area of
                                                                              abandoned lands
Value            The project area is a     Re-vegetation of                   planted with
(quantitative or territory of abandoned    abandoned lands                    perennial grasses is
Qualitative)     lands.                    on 30,000 ha.                      34,488 ha, which
                                                                              exceeds the target
                                                                              figure.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   10/01/2009                         03/31/2010
Comments
                 A 114.9% increase in use of abandoned lands in project area with practices of re-
(incl. %
                 vegetation. These practices were successfully tested and implemented.
achievement)
                 Reduced grazing pressures, increased vegetative cover and other techniques to
Indicator 2 :
                 improve management of degraded pastures and rangelands on 50,000 ha.
                                           50,000 ha of                      100,000 ha of
                                           degraded pastures                 degraded pastures
Value                                      and rangelands are                and rangelands are
                 Domestic animals are
(quantitative or                           improved and used                 improved and used
                 grazed around villages.
Qualitative)                               for grazing                       for grazing
                                           remotely from                     remotely from
                                           settlements.                      settlements.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                   10/01/2009                        03/31/2010


                                                v
Comments
                Achievement of 200%. The set-up of water points in remote areas has
(incl. %
                contributed to the establishment of summer grazing facilities.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Provision of 40 water points.
                                                                               36 water points
Value            No water points used                          Provision of    equipped with
                                             Provision of 40
(quantitative or remotely in the project                       31 water        different types of
                                             water points.
Qualitative)     area.                                         points          power sources were
                                                                               established.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                     10/01/2009         10/08/2006     03/31/2010
                 This indicator was 116% achieved as 36 water points were designed, evaluated
Comments
                 and implemented using alternative energy sources due to the remoteness of their
(incl. %
                 locations. The Indicator was revised (from 40 to 31) during the Mid Term
achievement)
                 Review.
Indicator 4 : Increase in number of livestock.
                                                                               During three years,
                 During years of
                                             At least 70%                      2005-2008, cattle
                 transition, privatization
                                             increase in number                population
Value            and restructuring of
                                             of livestock                      increased by 125 %,
(quantitative or agriculture, livestock has
                                             (35,000 to 70,000                 horses increased by
Qualitative)     been contracted
                                             animal                            100%, sheep
                 substantially throughout
                                             equivalents).                     number increased
                 the country
                                                                               by 129.8 %.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                     10/01/2009                        03/31/2010
Comments
                 Target surpassed in the three indicators selected (number of cattle, horses and
(incl. %
                 sheep).
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Improved access to livestock market.
                                                                               The project
                                                                               provided Shetsky
                                                                               Rayon with its own
                 Markets are located far
                                                                               livestock market
                 from the villages: average
Value                                        Improved access                   and slaughterhouse;
                 distance from peasants'
(quantitative or                             to livestock                      additionally
                 residence in the pilot zone
Qualitative)                                 market.                           assisted in the
                 to the livestock market -
                                                                               creation of an
                 126,7 km.
                                                                               organization
                                                                               comprised of nine
                                                                               farmer associations.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                     10/01/2009                        03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %         The indicator was fully achieved
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Demonstration of alternative land-use systems.
                                             Demonstration of                  Demonstration
Value            No demonstrations and no various methods                      program developed
(quantitative or other extension activities available to plant                 by CIMMYT
Qualitative)     in the pilot zone.          perennial and                     assisted in shifting
                                             annual grasses at                 to sustainable land-


                                                vi
                                           the lowest cost.                  use - traditional
                                                                             livestock
                                                                             particularly in
                                                                             testing wheatgrass.
                                                                             In 2001 hay was
                                                                             produced by 35 out
                                                                             of 100 farms, in
                                                                             2007. The number
                                                                             increased to 94 out
                                                                             of 100.
Date achieved   10/01/2004                 10/01/2009                        03/31/2010
Comments
                Field demonstration were successfully implemented and used by local farmers
(incl. %
                who shared training and technical assistance.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Reduced recurrence of locust infestations.
                                                                             Infestations reduced
                                                                             by progressive
                                         Reduced
                                                                             succession under
                                         recurrence of
                                                                             cover of cultivated
                                         locust infestations
Value            Weed cover of abandoned                                     wheatgrass
                                         by replacing
(quantitative or lands is prime breeding                                     provided by the
                                         weeds with
Qualitative)     ground for locusts.                                         project which
                                         cultivated
                                                                             proved more
                                         wheatgrass and
                                                                             effective than
                                         bushes.
                                                                             successions on idle
                                                                             or weedy fields.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                    10/01/2009                       03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %         There were no recorded locust infestations during project implementation.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : New empirical data on quantity of sequestered carbon.
                                                                              Carbon content in
                 In accordance with
                                                                              50 cm layer of soil,
                 Project's empirical
                                                                              including carbon in
                 quantification, carbon
Value                                                                         plant roots of
                 content in 50 cm layer of Maximum increase
(quantitative or                                                              wheatgrass sown by
                 soil (including carbon in of carbon in soils.
Qualitative)                                                                  the project was
                 roots) in abandoned lands
                                                                              estimated at 60.66
                 is 56.42 ton/ha (0.52
                                                                              ton/ha (0.56 ton/ha
                 ton/ha in roots).
                                                                              in roots).
Date achieved 10/01/2004                    10/01/2009                        03/31/2010
Comments
                 Indicator achieved, empirical information on quantity of sequestered carbon
(incl. %
                 obtained.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Quantity of sequestered carbon in soil
                 Quantity of sequestered                                      Quantity of
Value
                 carbon in soil of an       Maximum possible                  sequestered carbon
(quantitative or
                 abandoned land on          increase.                         in 50 cm soil layer
Qualitative)
                 project territory (without                                   of a project plot



                                               vii
               carbon from roots) is                                      sown by wheatgrass
               55.90 ton/ha.                                              (without carbon
                                                                          from roots) is 60.10
                                                                          ton/ha.
Date achieved 10/01/2004                 10/01/2009                       03/31/2010
Comments      Indicator achieved. Improved knowledge of carbon sequestered in soil. A soil
(incl. %      map of the Project#s territory (1:200,000) was developed on the basis of spatial
achievement) and field data.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            GEO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     10/30/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     05/06/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.20
  3     10/06/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.53
  4     05/27/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    0.89
  5     12/03/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    1.71
  6     07/27/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    2.33
  7     11/21/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    2.57
  8     10/04/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    3.95
  9     01/25/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    4.19
 10     08/29/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    4.80
 11     04/12/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    5.27
 12     11/06/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    5.27
 13     06/30/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    5.27


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
       1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

         1.1. Context at Appraisal

1. Country and Sector Background

    1. Since its independence in late 1991, the Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) has
       launched successive reforms in the agricultural sector aimed at halting uneconomical
       farming and improving productivity and corporate governance of farmers. Although
       GOK strengthened the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)'s management, a significant
       reform agenda remained, particularly in the northern marginal lands of Kazakhstan's
       steppe zone where unsustainable land use was having an increasingly adverse impact
       on the country's agricultural output and natural resource base. The Soviet Union's
       Virgin Lands scheme of the 1950's, designed to expand cereal production to the
       steppe region of Kazakhstan, resulted in large areas of degraded land due to
       unsustainable cereal cultivation, severe deterioration of soil quality, reduced
       biodiversity, lower carbon sequestration, and adverse affects on water quality and
       supply.

2. Country Commitment

    2. The GOK recognized the importance of addressing the issue of mostly abandoned
       drylands in the northern areas of the country, given the ecological and economic
       implications. The government´s strategy for desertification control through
       rehabilitation of drylands through alternate sustainable land-use systems was
       articulated in the National Action Plan (NAP) and the National Environmental
       Action Plan (NEAP) prepared in accordance with the United Nations Convention to
       Combat Desertification (UN-CCD). In addition, the Republic of Kazakhstan planned
       to join the Kyoto Protocol of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change
       (UN-FCCC) and identified in the NEAP the need to reduce greenhouse gas
       emissions as a priority environmental problem of global significance. The GOK
       Strategy for Agriculture and Environment1 reflected these priorities.

3. Country Assistance Strategy

    3. Protecting and enhancing the environment was a major challenge identified in the
       Kazakhstan Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, January 2001). The overarching
       objective of the CAS was poverty reduction and improvement of living standards. It
       identified four main areas for investment in support of the objective, and within
       them, protecting the environment. As such, the activities proposed under the project
       responded to the CAS's objective of environmental protection.



1
    Section B.2.2.


                                              1
         1.2. Original Global Environment Objectives, Components, and Key
              Indicators (as approved)

    4. The development objective of DMP was to demonstrate and promote sustainable
       land uses in the marginal drylands ecosystem of a pilot area in the Shetsky rayon.
       The project's global environmental objectives were: (i) improved knowledge on
       quantification and monitoring of carbon sequestration under different land use types;
       (ii) increased carbon sequestration for climate change mitigation; (iii) improved
       biodiversity; and (iv) control of land degradation. Indicators for the achievement of
       the project's development objectives included:
        Number of hectares under sustainable use2: (i) re-vegetation of abandoned cereal
           land on 30,000 ha; (ii) improved management of degraded pastures and
           rangelands on 50,000 ha; and (iii) provision of 40 water points.
        Successful demonstration of alternative land use systems, providing the economic
           and social feasibility of livestock-based production systems in similar ecosystems;
        Increase in number of livestock (from 35,000 to 70,000 animal equivalent units);
        Improvement of income and living standards of the beneficiary population.
       Indicators for the global environment objectives included: (i) quantity of carbon
       sequestered in soil; (ii) new empirical data on quantity of carbon sequestrated in the
       continental steppe ecosystem; (iii) biodiversity conservation; (iv) reduced soil
       erosion; and, (v) reduced recurrence of locust infestations.

       This five-year project was financed by a US$ 5.27 million grant by the GEF and
       implemented by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The DMP was directly
       linked to the priority topics of GEF's Operational Program No.12 on Integrated
       Ecosystems Management (GEF OP12) through reversing land degradation, improving
       carbon sequestration, enhancing biodiversity and increasing agricultural production.
       The project's holistic approach of combining good pastoral/arable practices with
       ecologically sustainable land use management was the first of its kind and considered
       as a model for GEF OP-12.

         1.3. Revised Program Development Objectives, Components, and Key
              Indicators

    5. The original objective was not modified and the associated outcome targets
       remained unchanged, except for a minor revision in the indicator of numbers of
       water points, originally targeted at 40. During the MTR (October 2006), the Bank
       agreed with the MEP to reduce the number of installed windmills to 16, which
       resulted in a revised target of 31 water points.

         1.4. Main Beneficiaries



2
    to be considered satisfactory if at least 70% of the following targets was achieved


                                                        2
    6. The main beneficiaries identified in the PAD were farmers and rural households in
       the project area. The total population was estimated at 19,499 people living in 11
       sub-districts in the project area 3 , including over 600 landholders. The average
       household size is 4.2 people and over 95% obtained a living from farming. Initial
       meetings between the Bank and project stakeholders in June 2000 indicated full
       support for the project objectives and good awareness of the needs for developing
       more sustainable agro-pastoral practices. During preparation, consultations took
       place with village and community groups. In addition, the PAD identified
       specialized local institutes to conduct for research and demonstration activities.

        1.5. Original Components (as approved)

    7. Component 1: Development of Sustainable Land Use Systems (US$5.5 million).
       At appraisal, the following activities were planned to be supported under this
       component:
          (i) Revegetation of Abandoned Cereal Lands, including (a) direct seeding of
          perennial grasses; (b) seeding of perennial grasses using conservation tillage; and
          (c) assisting farmers with acceleration of natural revegetation. This component
          was expected to help revegetate about 30,000 hectares of abandoned cereal lands.
          (ii) Management of Degraded Pastures and Rangelands: The project would
          support the improvement of the vegetative cover and management of degraded
          pastures and rangelands. The activities were designed to increase productivity of
          degraded pastures and reduce grazing pressures around villages by restoring 40
          watering points.
          (iii) Validation and Demonstration of New Technologies: The project would
          support a pilot program in four demonstration areas with the objective of
          demonstrating the various methods available to plant perennial and annual grasses
          at the lowest cost.

    8. Component 2: Initial Service Support to Producer Groups (US$1.3 million).
       This component was designed to provide grant financing to farmers in the project
       area to start a transition to improved practices, which would likely result in
       sustainable income generation in the long run with largely inherent global benefits.
       The component would also provide assistance to producer groups by establishing
       milk collections centers, and a regional market for farm products in the main town of
       the project area.

    9. Component 3: Quantification of Carbon Sequestration (US$1.3 million). This
         component was designed to provide assistance for improving knowledge and skills
         to quantify and monitor carbon sequestration so as to enable the government to meet
         its obligations under the UN-FCCC.
        


3
    December, 2001


                                               3
10. Component  4:  Public  Awareness  and  Replication  Strategy  (US$0.9 
    million).  The component would carry out public awareness and capacity building
    activities in the Shetsky Rayon, regional and national levels and develop a
    replication strategy so that project interventions could be replicated in other similar
    drylands ecosystems, within and outside Kazakhstan.  
        
11. Component  5:  Project  Management  Unit  (US$0.7  million).  A Project
    Management Unit (PMU) would be established to handle fiduciary tasks
    (procurement, financial management and disbursements), as well as the monitoring
    and evaluation of project activities. The PAD clearly identified PMU responsibilities
    and reporting requirements.

  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

     2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

12. Strategic Approach. The project was designed under the assumption that combating
    desertification and loss of fertility in the drylands of Kazakhstan´s Shetsky Rayon is
    dependent on adopting better land practices, improving the living standards of land
    users and providing scientific knowledge for carbon storage under different land use
    practices. The project was technically designed with a strategic approach to address
    increasing threats of drylands degradation and desertification. The strategy was to
    provide demonstration sites, equipment inputs and technical assistance to promote
    adoption improved technologies which could be replicated. The design was based on
    proper environmental considerations in agro-pastoral practices to promote a
    comprehensive strategy that could demonstrate a different approach to the negative
    trend of the business-as-usual approach, and a way to halt this trend. The project
    was designed to develop alternate land uses that were not only ecologically
    sustainable but also economically feasible and socially acceptable, which in turn
    would add the benefit of improving the financial viability of rural villages in the
    Shetsky Rayon. An increase in farm incomes would improve agricultural
    productivity, discourage cereal growing in marginal areas and increase livestock
    population.

13. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design. The first and perhaps main
    lesson incorporated in this project was the importance of linking the objectives of
    environmental protection and sound land use and management with tangible benefits
    for rural families. The project placed emphasis on managing lands for improved
    natural resource management and conservation which also helped to return once
    abandoned lands to productive use, while at the same time generating improved
    incomes for local stakeholders and users of the land. Though this concept of
    improving the environment by mitigating the threat of desertification and
    simultaneously improving the lives of local population is not new, cases of actual
    implementation were infrequent. Another feature worth highlighting is the multiple-
    focus strategic approach which encompassed rural landholders, local and central
    authorities, businesses, and research institutions, which working together set up the

                                            4
   basis for developing the links between land management and income-generation.
   The need for local ownership was another leading criterion in project design. By
   situating the PMU in the project area, the project promoted decentralized
   responsibility for project management as an essential element to build commitment
   for the sustainability of project activities.

14. Additional lessons incorporated into the design of the project were: (a) the
    importance of training for project related activities such as procurement,
    disbursement, supervision, and financial management; and (b) the need to inform,
    disseminate and communicate relevant information to all stakeholders.

15. Consistency. Project design was fully consistent with the priorities of the country
    and in accordance with the Bank and GEF strategies for the country, i.e. helping to
    reduce the barriers to farmers adopting environment-friendly agro-pastoral practices.
    Additionally, the project was designed with the selection of a particular site as the
    main pilot area given the limited budget available. The project was consistent with
    GOK recognition of the need for a holistic approach that combines sound agro-
    pastoral practices and ecologically sustainable land use management to contribute to
    the reduction of land degradation and desertification.

16. Project design. The PAD highlighted the need to achieve an effective collaboration
    in project planning and implementation activities, with agriculture and soil
    conservation specialists working together under the coordination of the MEP (and
    subsequently with participation of MOA). The governance of the project based on
    decentralized responsibility for project management, was effectively designed to
    respond to a frequently highlighted (but seldom applied) need for developing
    effective tools to achieve an integrated approach in terms of land-use, development,
    and soil conservation with the pertinent and complementary support of research-
    based decision making. Two possible weaknesses related to project design include:
    (a) limited financial analysis conducted during project preparation; and (b)
    rehabilitating some of the numerous abandoned wells in the area was not considered.

17. Risk assessment. Critical risk identification was comprehensive at appraisal. All
    identified risks (from outputs to objective and from components to outputs) were
    accordingly rated and mitigation measures clearly identified.

18. Adequacy of participatory process. Stakeholder consultations and inclusiveness of
    local landholders and businesses at all levels was very adequate during preparation
    and helped to inform project design. This was a necessary requisite, taking into
    consideration that the project strategy was based on a strong participatory process,
    including local land-holders, with the pertinent capacity building and communication
    campaigns, and Government agencies as a major factor to the success of the project
    (Annex 6).

    2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation



                                           5
19. There were no major changes and/or restructuring which could have affected project
    implementation. Nevertheless, the ex-post assessment suggests that several issues
    had an impact project implementation, including:

20. Frequent rotation of key counterparts and weak coordination at the Ministerial
    level. The quality of project implementation was affected by frequent changes of
    authorities at both central and local governments. During the life of the project, four
    different ministers of Environment, two Oblast Akims and four Rayon Akims were
    in office. The dependence of project activities on these authorities affected decision-
    making. The lack of a specialized technical unit within the Ministry on the issues
    addressed by the project caused delays in decision-making and affected project
    implementation as MEP authorities lacked the necessary advice to guide PMU
    actions. This was compounded by insufficient interaction between MOA and MEP,
    as the expected coordination described at appraisal did not materialize. However, in
    spite of these facts, the project objectives were fully achieved, largely due to the
    dedication of the PMU, local landholders and producers' organizations in the project
    area.

21. Selection of field equipment. The project acquired a comprehensive set of
    equipment that was expected to be operated and remain in the hands of beneficiaries.
    The purchase of a large integrated direct seeder (Morris Seed Complex) proved to be
    not fully appropriate for the needs of the project. As a result, it was mainly utilized
    for training and education rather than field production. The purchase of equipment
    by MEP and the lack of an agile mechanism for its transfer to farmers was finally
    formally resolved and the transfer was formalized in October 2010. Through a
    formal transfer agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, the machinery will remain under
    the administration of the Olzha-9, a second-level farmer organization established
    with project support.

     2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and
         Utilization

22. M&E Design. A well-designed monitoring and evaluation system was considered
    critical to ensure the project's timely and successful implementation, and enhance its
    impact by a systematic analysis of lessons learned and their effective dissemination.
    The design included key performance indicators for outcomes and intermediate
    outcomes for the four main components of the project. The quality of indicators is
    considered satisfactory for the overall monitoring of the project.

23. M&E Implementation. Although specific M&E software was not fully developed,
    the collection of data undertaken by the PMU allowed to adequately monitor and
    evaluate progress of project implementation. In addition, a social survey was
    conducted during the last year of the project by an independent firm which showed
    important positive results, including: a) improved living standards in the project
    area; b) transition to traditional livestock production; and c) increased production of
    fodder crops with soil-protecting techniques. The survey also identified concerns

                                            6
   regarding the sustainability of actions and the limited reduction of grazing near
   villages and conventional practices of cereal-based crops still important. In terms of
   impact, the real impact of the project will be determined in the future as land fertility
   and carbon storage is expected to increase under the new methods of soil-crop
   systems.

24. Utilization. With regards to environmental monitoring, information available on the
    selected indicators has been collected. This said, the correlation between
    implementation of land use systems and the increase in carbon storage and
    biodiversity response will require continued monitoring because of the natural time
    lag of such activities. However, the capacity built by the project in the scientific
    sector (Research Institutes) has set up the necessary tools and the baseline
    information to implement adequate medium and long-term monitoring methods,
    from satellite image analysis and specific methodologies for particular indicators on
    sites and species.

     2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

25. The project complied with the World Bank safeguard policies indicated in the PAD:
    (i) OP 4.01: Environmental Assessment and (ii) OP 4.09: Pest Management.
    Although OP 4.04: Natural Habitats was not considered applicable to the DMP at the
    time of approval, the project also applied the principles of this safeguard.

26. Environmental Assessment (EA). The Project complied with all requirements under
    OP/BP/GP 4.01 including those for the methodology and content, rating and timing,
    and the consultation process of the EA. The EA was prepared in early 2002 and
    identified overwhelmingly positive impacts. The final draft of the EA was received
    by the Bank and disclosed in the InfoShop on January 25, 2002. The EA was widely
    disseminated among stakeholders and project beneficiaries. During implementation,
    compliance of project activities with the EA was monitored by supervision missions
    and assessed as satisfactory. In addition, a detailed system to monitor project impact
    on the environment was developed based on a) baseline surveys, b) demonstration
    plots, c) monitoring for biodiversity, carbon stored, soil quality, manure handling,
    and practices carried out as "best farming examples".

27. Pest Management. The shift from crops to perennial grass species in itself implies a
    dramatic reduction in the use of chemicals. In addition to not financing any chemical
    product or equipment according to OP 4.09, the project took proactive measures to
    support improved practices in pest management, although input use remained the
    responsibility of the farmer.

28. Natural habitats. The project did not fund logging or deforestation activities and
    there were no identified project interventions that could cause any harm to, or loss
    of, natural habitats. Nevertheless, for precautionary principles, the original design
    should have triggered the safeguard for Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04). The



                                            7
       establishment of Agropyron pastures was not conducted in areas of native
       grasslands, thus minimizing the potential risk to biodiversity and natural ecosystems.

    29. Social. Farmers were actively involved in project preparation and implementation.
        Decision-making was based on a preliminary baseline socio-economic survey at the
        village level. The project also promoted partnerships among farmers. The socially
        oriented approach and focus of the project was satisfactory.

    30. Procurement. The PMU prepared tender documents and followed Bank bidding
        procedures based on the relevant guidelines. Bank missions periodically reviewed
        the procurement arrangements and found them to be satisfactory and in compliance
        with agreed procedures in the Grant Agreement and Bank procurement guidelines.
        The 18 contracts awarded with values above the established thresholds were prior
        reviewed by Bank procurement specialists. During project implementation, the Bank
        team conducted four procurement post reviews4.

    31. Financial Management. Bank supervision missions confirmed that Financial
        Management activities were conducted in compliance with Bank guidelines. All
        grant funds have been fully disbursed and all information was reported according to
        acceptable standards and procedures, except for a minor discrepancy regarding the
        Bank financing percentage applied to contracts signed in late 2005. This has been
        raised by the Bank following project completion, and is under consideration by
        MEP. The summary of actual project costs showed higher than originally allocated
        expenditures for the PMU and operating costs. All audits, except for the 2009 audit
        report, were received on time and auditors have provided clean opinions for Project
        Financial Statements. The audit for 2009 was waived given there was no
        disbursements.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

    32. At the operational level, the establishment of the farmer's organization and the
        transfer of all project equipment from MEP should ensure sustainable continuity and
        expansion of activities beyond project completion. Furthermore, project results
        should allow for improved government incentive programs and policies related to
        (a) promotion of the comprehensive technological package developed and tested by
        the project, (b) fostering       institutional partnerships, and (d) disseminating
        experiences among farmers of the Shetsky region and to other regions.

    33. Farmer organization in the project area has been considerably strengthened by the
        project. The second level association (known as Olzha-9), comprised of nine farmer
        associations with a total of 133 members, is now well established and consolidated.
        Olzha-9 has received the mandate to manage project assets, and promote the
        adoption and dissemination of project technologies. This organization represents one


4
    April 2005, October 2006, February 2008 and December 2008


                                                   8
    of the most important achievements of the project and provides a reliable transition
    arrangement beyond the life of the project. Olzha-9 has developed strong links with
    local authorities and contributed additional resources to complement project
    investments. The organization also plans to expand its activities and become a
    training center to promote and consolidate knowledge for its members and expand its
    membership.

34. Regarding possible follow-up interventions, the GOK, through MEP, has expressed
    interest in disseminating the important results of the project, and the possibility of
    using the information generated to further address land-use and land degradation,
    sustainable livelihoods, as well as climate change on a broader scale in Kazakhstan.
    The possibility of materializing this expression of interest will largely depend on the
    allocation of GEF resources to Kazakhstan, and the priorities defined by GOK
    regarding the utilization of such funds.

35. The research institutes, mainly UUU (Institute of Soil Science and Agro Chemistry)
    and JSC (National Center of Space Research and Technology) have acquired
    necessary equipment and have expanded their capacity in producing scientific
    information using international standards. The Institute of Botany and Geophysics
    (IBG), the UUU and the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
    (CIMMYT), worked together with USDA and documented recommendations
    generated for future sustainable practices to halt degradation, improve production
    and generate incomes while maintaining the steppe biodiversity. MEP acquired
    scientific information from the field and is now in a position to plan future reduction
    on greenhouse-gas emissions while storing additional carbon in the soil by improved
    sustainable practices. This provides GOK with solid elements in support of the
    ongoing discussion and negotiations with UN-FCCC.

3   Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

36. The project had significant relevance in terms of objectives, design, and
    implementation. The most important is the development of a model for technologies
    to address land degradation and promote the economic recovery in large areas of
    Kazakhstan. The project has provided a new technological package for rural
    development in which not only productive lands are conserved but also improved in
    terms of soil management by applying zero tillage, migrating from cereal-based
    production to more sustainable livestock systems, and increasing the number of
    heads and animal fodder through the utilization of a perennial grass species
    (Agropyron). Apart from the infrastructure left by the project, the business of
    producing Agropyron seeds has provided profits for farmers. In terms of
    sustainability, MOA has recently announced subsidies for the purchase of Agropyron
    or wheat-grass seeds to help farmers grow grasses to increase hay production and
    expand pasture activities. Replication channels have been identified having the
    potential to be expanded within and beyond the Shetsky Rayon, as in the case of the

                                            9
    neighboring rayon of Taldykorgan, where farmers have already sown 300 ha of
    Agropyron.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment
    Objectives

37. All global environmental objectives of the project were achieved. The project was
    designed to identify possibilities for recovery of the livestock sector on marginal
    cereal lands and generate specific knowledge needed to address the priorities of
    improvement of livestock management and enhancing growth and development in
    the rural areas. During the five-year implementation period the project made a
    number of significant contributions in the following areas:
   a) More than 35,000 hectares of abandoned lands were restored with the
       establishment of pastures based on Agropyron (wheat grass).
   b) At least 105,000 hectares of degraded and remote pastures have been restored and
       brought into sustainable production.
   c) Thirty-six water points were established, providing drinking water for cattle in
       remote areas and using alternative energy sources from windmills, solar batteries,
       and generators.
   d) Livestock numbers in the project area have increased by 125%.
   e) Income growth of 350% has been reported and living standards have improved for
       the sampled farmers benefited from the project.
   f) Nine existing farmer associations comprising a total of 133 small and medium
       farmers have been integrated into a second-level organization (Olzha-9) providing
       a viable mechanism for administration of assets and dissemination of results to
       other farmers.
   g) Agricultural machinery and equipment has been tested for improved field
       management techniques, mainly zero tillage and direct seeding.
   h) In general the global environmental objectives were reached by:
           a. Advanced knowledge on identification and measurement of volume of
               carbon storage through different types of land use; and,
           b. Improvement of lands for the conservation of biodiversity while stemming
               degradation of soils.

38. The project has also produced important materials for awareness building, such as
    brochures and a video on project results. For the first time in Kazakhstan, pilots for
    sustainable land use systems have been put in place. The adoption of these
    techniques at a larger scale will be time-dependent. Although better coordinated
    actions between MEP and MOA would have been desired, the project provided
    important inputs to agricultural policies and support programs, applicable to the
    mostly underutilized dryland areas of the country.

39. The project has contributed to create national capacity by developing
    methodologies for carbon measuring and monitoring while at the same time
    provided the necessary inputs to address climate change matters. The strengthening
    of capacity for remote sensing and modeling in carbon storage, especially in the
    Soil and the Space Research Institute is of importance for Kazakhstan and the

                                           10
       region 5 . The application of the EPIC modeling to Kazakhstan (as a result of
       cooperation with USDA) has created strong national capacity in carbon
       accounting. The project has demonstrated the compatibility of Agropyron
       production in the steppe biome and the benefits of these production systems to
       rehabilitate degraded areas. Leading farmers through Olzha-9, have expressed
       interests in strengthening their role in the training of their members, and providing
       services to the community through a training center, with facilities and equipment
       that were provided by this project.
3.3 Efficiency

    40. Analysis within the project area showed a total of 35,179 hectares of different land
        use systems with Agropyron adopted in the 10 rural districts comprising the project
        area, of which the most sustainable system was conservation tillage with 16,900
        hectares. The project planned to cover at least 70% of 30,000 hectares. The DMP
        achieved (a) 10,266 hectares with direct seeding, (b) 16,902 hectares with seeding
        using conservation tillage, and, (c) 8,011 hectares under acceleration of natural re-
        vegetation. Additionally, the project has demonstrated impact on 105,000 ha of
        degraded pastures. According to the financial analysis (Annex 3), the production of
        Agropyron hay and seed on the entire project area (34,500 ha) showed good
        economic return. According to the analysis, Agropyron hay and seed production
        has a sound potential, with an IRR of 23%. Supporting these calculations, an
        analysis conducted using remote sensing, identifies a total area of over 70,000
        hectares seeded to Agropyron during the project lifespan, suggesting that an
        additional 35,000 ha were seeded in the project area without financial support from
        the project.

    41. The 133 farmers that have directly benefited from the project, represents about 20%
        of the estimated 673 land holder of the project area. Olzha-9 and the 133 members
        have also been benefited by the marketplace, the milk distribution facilities (IRR
        30%) and the slaughter house (IRR 15%). A typical farm with hay production and
        livestock (cattle, horses and sheep) showed an IRR of 51% for a period of 20 years
        which suggests that the income level of typical farms had a reasonable and
        sustainable positive shift due to the adoption to Agropyron production and livestock
        breeding. In the case of water-points, the analysis showed an IRR of 79%, again
        overestimated but showing the importance of these investments in terms of income
        generation.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory



5
    Annex 10 ­ 12


                                               11
42. The inputs provided have successfully contributed to the achievement of all relevant
    indicators. Most importantly, the project has demonstrated the viability of an
    environmentally-friendly production system, well adopted by a representative
    number of farmers and with the policy and institutional mechanisms to promote
    expansion to other similar areas of the country. This rating is supported additionally
    for the project`s contribution to mitigate land degradation and develop knowledge on
    carbon sequestration technology, indicating that the objectives have been achieved
    both at the field level and in terms of scientific and institutional capacity.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

a) Overarching themes
     
 43. Sustainable land use practices in marginal areas. The project successfully piloted
      and demonstrated alternate land use practices on which rendered economically
      feasible and socially acceptable by landholders as well as providing a better
      ecological impact on lands, the ecosystem and the biodiversity. The project
      demonstrated the importance and feasibility of reestablishing livestock-based
      production systems, restoring abandoned lands and improving degraded pastures,
      providing new areas for grazing and fodder production for winter feeding. Technical
      assistance has resulted crucial in the adoption of new techniques and mechanisms for
      both production and marketing. Moreover, the project gave preeminence to a
      problem-oriented vision, in contrast with the traditional governmental-oriented
      approach, opening a wide range of opportunities for multi-disciplinary and cross-
      cutting approach at different levels.

44. Environmental improvement and biodiversity conservation. The project has
    contributed not only to the general discussion on land degradation issues but also has
    contributed to the global knowledge on addressing the reduction in the capacity of
    soils to produce benefits from a particular form of land management system. The
    project has contributed to the general knowledge of human-induced factors which
    contribute to land degradation, in particular agricultural land use, poor soil and water
    management practices, removal of natural vegetation, frequent use of heavy
    machinery, overgrazing, and improper crop selection. The information on
    biodiversity collected and the analysis of different productive systems has
    demonstrated the compatibility of conservation and production in a steppe
    ecosystem.

45. Poverty alleviation, income generation and diversification of production. The
    project has demonstrated, on a limited scale, the importance and pertinence of
    suitable interventions through technical assistance and start-up inputs to promote
    diversification of land use and generation of income from the sustainable use of
    natural resources in drylands. This, as well as the support to milk production and
    marketing, has also benefited the poor households from villages in the project area,
   
46. Carbon storage and land use systems. Drylands, as an ecosystem with extensive
    surface area across the globe, have been identified as a potential candidate for major

                                            12
    carbon storage efforts. The project demonstrated in practice means to increase
    carbon storage from particular land management practices which also increase
    incomes.  
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

47. Though a better coordination could have been developed with MOA for immediate
    adoption of practices proposed and a better appropriation of sound environmental
    practices, effective coordination and collaboration between institutes, local
    government and MEP at the local level was developed. This promoted
    decentralization, a very significant step towards institutionalization of horizontal
    collaboration and interactions among central and local government agencies, an
    essential component for the development of sound environmental policies and
    actions. Both MEP and MOA are in the process of identifying suitable mechanisms
    to apply the information generated on carbon stored in soils and monitoring
    techniques to further advance policy-making in Kazakhstan.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

48. The DMP design included a highly participatory process involving farmers.
    However, the establishment of Olzha-9 as a second-level farm organization can be
    considered a successful unintended outcome of the project. This unique organization
    has incorporated management skills and developed business plans for future
    activities thus representing one of the most reliable achievements of the project,
    allowing for project assets to be used not only to consolidate best practices but also
    to expand the adoption of technologies and incorporate more members to the
    organization.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

49. In addition to the beneficiary survey described previously, a workshop was held in
    December 2009 led by the Vice-Minister of Environmental Protection, Ms.
    Sadvakasova Eldana Makinovna, other MEP authorities, members of participating
    Institutes, Olzha-9 members, and PMU staff (Annex 6). Main highlights included:
    (a) opportunities for multi-disciplinary and cross-cutting approaches at different
    scales, (b) Olzha-9 and its leadership in innovation in land-use management, (c)
    sustainability and the possibilities of replication in neighboring areas within and
    outside the Shetsky Rayon, and (d) the need to improve the management and
    operation of the slaughterhouse and a milk collection center.

4   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

50. Risks to development outcomes are considered moderate due to the likelihood of
    continuity of project interventions. Although evidence suggests that utilization and
    dissemination of practices among farmers in the project area will continue, the

                                           13
    replication of project actions to other regions will largely depend on the willingness
    of agricultural authorities to provide support and incentives for the adoption of such
    practices. Other reasons which could jeopardize the development outcomes are: (a)
    limited financial resources by farmers; (b) lack of future government commitment;
    and (c) unpredictable market fluctuations.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

51. The Bank`s task team and Management provided adequate dedication to the design
    of this innovative and challenging project which included potentially risky
    investments. The task team, in close cooperation with GOK, set forth a sound project
    design which balanced the overall strategic approach, technical and financial aspects,
    components, implementation arrangements and fiduciary aspects. Team composition
    and preparation resources were adequate to conduct necessary design activities.
    During project preparation, risk identification was comprehensive and objective of
    which the most challenging was the need to motivate farmers to switch from crop-
    based to more traditional livestock-based production system and encourage them to
    expand remote areas with inadequate conditions for livestock farming. Mitigation
    measures identified proved adequate to overcome risks encountered.
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

52. The Bank task team conducted 14 supervision missions, providing adequate inputs
    and guidance to both the recipient and beneficiaries. A total of 12 ISRs were filed
    with straightforward reporting on the issues focusing on implementation progress
    and its impact on project objectives. Issues raised in Aide Memoires were duly
    addressed and records of actions are well documented. The review of ISRs and
    indicators identified inconsistent reporting in the number of GEO and intermediary
    indicators, which was resolved in ISR #11 (April 2009). When the Government's
    procurement issues were identified, the task team addressed them duly. The delays in
    final payment to the Research Institutes and the difficulties to transfer project assets
    to the beneficiaries should have been identified earlier. Although transfer of assets to
    beneficiaries was finally resolved (see Borrower's letter in Annex 7), this should
    have been anticipated and resolved well before the final year of the project.

53. The commitment and dedication of the Bank team to the project (particularly of the
    country office-based TTL) may have resulted in certain over-management of project
    implementation, occasionally influencing decisions of the PMU. Examples of this
    are the purchase of the Morris Seed Complex and the decision-making process
    leading to the investments in milk distribution equipment. Towards the end of the

                                            14
    project, there was a change of Task Team Leader. Aide-memoirs and actions
    required expressed in the ISRs indicate that the new leadership was required to
    address delayed pending matters (in particular the process for the transfer of project
    assets to beneficiaries) as well as constructing a sound base of project indicators.
    Regardless of these issues, project supervision was satisfactory, with missions
    comprised of an appropriate blend of professionals to address all technical and
    fiduciary matters of this innovative project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

54. Given that both design and supervision are considered satisfactory, Bank overall
    performance is rated Satisfactory. Bank staff and experts provided the necessary
    inputs for an efficient project design taking into account most of variables in the
    project area and the GOK. During supervision, the Bank has covered all aspects of
    project implementation, providing adequate support and technical advice to the
    PMU.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

55. Overall, the GOK demonstrated commitment and responsiveness to achieve the
    proposed development objectives of the project. Despite the lack of technical
    oversight adequate political support was provided by MEP throughout project
    preparation and implementation, including coordination with MOA at the local level.
    Bank missions reconfirmed that the PMU was working efficiently and effectively
    towards project implementation and addressed recommendations for project
    improvement.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

56. The structure and staffing of the PMU evolved from the project preparation unit and
    has shown adequate capacity to coordinate and administer all project activities in a
    timely manner and provided an efficient link with the Project Steering Committee
    and the Bank. The support provided by the PMU was identified by beneficiaries as a
    key factor to the successful implementation of project activities at the field level.
    The decentralized office in the Shetsky Rayon was instrumental to achieve the
    important task of interacting with farmers during the initial phase of the project. The
    only relevant low-rated action may be the disconnect with MOA.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
                                           15
57. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Both MEP and the PMU have complied
    with the agreements in the legal documents, and have participated in the Bank's
    missions doing the pertinent follow-up as well as supporting the satisfactory
    implementation of the project.

6. Lessons Learned

a. Sustainability. In order to achieve the transformation of production patterns in a
   given agro-ecological setting, the interaction of the scientific and end-users is key, but
   public support instruments must be identified and are required well beyond the life of
   the project.
b. Environment and Agriculture: Institutional Integration and Coordination.
   Adequate promotion, adoption and dissemination of good practices for the productive
   use and management of natural resources require strong integration and coordination
   between environmental and agricultural authorities.
c. Complexity. This project has shown the importance of well thought design in an
   operation with complex implementation requirements. The project combined
   agricultural techniques and production, training and extension, infrastructure,
   scientific research and marketing. Such a complex combination of inputs and outputs
   requires a very thoughtful design and an adequately funded implementation support
   structure.
d. The Importance of a Multi-sectoral Approach in GEF-financed projects. The
   project is a clear example of projects which require a multi-sectoral approach to
   succeed. The project combined needs of the GOK to produce sustainably,
   collaboration with farmers and academia and promote the inclusiveness and
   advantages of associative initiatives.
e. Synergies between Research, Technical Assistance & Technology by Adoption.
   The project demonstrated that the achievement of the ambitious objective of
   modifying production patterns requires the balanced and timely interaction between
   research, technical assistance and end-users (farmers).
f. Improved Production and Marketing. Developing a sustainable production
   package requires not only meeting environmental criteria but also demonstrating the
   financial viability of proposed practices and production schemes. Providing project
   support beyond production is important to project success provided that such support
   is directly linked to the production system being promoted.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

On October 11, 2010, by means of an official letter (Annex 7) MEP reconfirmed their
appreciation for the sustained support provided by the Bank to the GOK as well as full
consent with the findings and recommendations provided by the ICR in its final draft
version. All comments expressed in the letter have been duly incorporated in the ICR. At
the same time, the Vice-Minister ratified that GOK would make all efforts possible for
further development of sustainable land uses in the country.

                                             16
(b) Co-financiers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                      17
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing



(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 DEVELOPMENT OF
SUSTAINABLE LAND USE                     4.64               5.23                  112
SYSTEMS
 INITIAL SERVICE SUPPORT
                                         1.09               1.26                  115
TO PRODUCER GROUPS
 QUANTIFICATION OF
                                         1.12               1.06                  94
CARBON SEQUESTRATION
 PUBLIC AWARENESS AND
                                         0.71               0.63                  88
REPLICATION STRATEGY
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                                         0.61               1.41                  231
UNIT

Total Baseline Cost                         8.17
Physical Contingencies                      0.82
Price Contingencies                         0.71
Total Project Costs                         9.70                9.59              99
Project Preparation Facility
                                            0.35
(PPF)
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00
Total Financing Required                   10.05




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                        millions)    millions)
Borrower                                             2.40         2.39         99
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                    5.27         5.27         100
UN Global Mechanisms-UN
                                                     0.10        0.00         0
Convention to Combat Desertification
Local Farmer Organizations                           1.93        1.93         100




                                             18
                       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                      Data     Value at
        Output Indicator        Target     Unit
                                                     Source     EOP
Component 1: Development of Sustainable Land Use Systems
1.  Direct seeding on        At least      Hecta    PMU        10,266 ha
1   abandoned lands          70% of        res
                             10,000 ha
1.  Seeding using            At least      Hecta    PMU        16,902 ha
2   conservation tillage     70% of        res
                             10,000 ha
1.  Acceleration of natural  At least      Hecta    PMU        8,011 ha
3   vegetation               70% of        res
                             20,000 ha
1.  Management of            Validation    4 sites  PMU        Four sites
4   degraded rangelands and  and                              within one
    pasturelands             demonstra                          location
                             tion of                            close to
                             new                              Aksu-Ayuly
                             technologi                           were
                             es in four                       established
                             demonstra
                             tion plots
                             Installatio   units    PMU        A total of
                             n of 40                           36 water
                             (16 -                            points were
                             30) water                        established
                             points in                            (21
                             the project                      windmills,
                             area                               10 solar
                                                              batteries, 5
                                                              generators)
                              Reduced      Hecta    PMU        More than
                              overgrazin   res                  100,000
                              g by at                           hectares
                              least 70%                           were
                              of current                      rehabilitate
                              levels                             d with
                                                               livestock
                                                              movement
                              Increased    No. of   PMU          114%
                              livestock    heads    Olzha-9   increase in
                              numbers               Reports      cattle,
                                                                100% in
                                                              horses and
                                                                119% in

                                     19
                                                                   sheep
                                                                   animal
                                                                    heads
Component 2: Initial Service Support to Producer Groups
2.  Improved access to          Creation     1        PMU           Market
1   market of livestock         of market             Olzha-9      (Bazaar)
    products                    in Aksu-                         created and
                                Ayuli                            operational
                                Establish    1        PMU          Olzha-9
                                ment of                          represents 9
                                marketing                        associations
                                associatio                             of
                                ns                                producers
                                                                    (legally
                                                                  registered)
Component 3: Quantification of Carbon Sequestration
3.                              New          1                       New
1                               knowledge            Institute   information
                                to quantify          PMU           available
                                and                                  and
                                monitor                          currently in
                                carbon                               use
                                sequestrati
                                on
Component 4: Replication Strategy and Public Awareness
4.  Increased awareness and     Number of    numb    PMU          16 events
1   knowledge of sustainable    disseminat   er      Reports     carried out
    livestock-based             ion events,                        1 video
    production system at        publicatio                         Several
    local, national and         ns,                                 clips
    regional level              recorded
                                by the
                                monitorin
                                g system
                                of the
                                project
4.  Replication of project                                         No data
2   interventions within                                          available
    Kazakhstan and other
    countries of Central Asia
Component 5: Project Management
5.  Timely implementation                                         Achieved
1   of procurement plan
5.  Project monitoring and                                        Achieved
2   reporting system
    working effectively
                                       20
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic and Financial Analysis

At the appraisal stage of the project, an incremental cost analysis was carried out as an
alternative to an economic and financial analysis for the project. The aim of the
incremental cost analysis was to reflect the contribution of GEF funds in terms of being a
catalyst to promote the successful integration of improved land and natural resources
management in dryland regions of the country. The incremental funding of the GEF grant
was allocated to all five project components, in order to promote global environmental
benefits.

At the appraisal stage, the contribution of GEF incremental funding was assessed in terms
of qualitative measures, mainly due to the lack of empirical data and a previously
implemented sample project. The main contributions of GEF incremental funding
allowed generating empirical data on estimations of carbon sequestration, biodiversity
conservation and control of land degradation. As conducting an economic and financial
analysis for these qualitative measures is not appropriate, the financial and economic
analysis carried out at project completion was aimed at analyzing the long term
sustainability of project interventions.

This section includes an analysis both in terms of the impact of the incremental GEF
funding according to the project appraisal and current financial analysis based on present
value calculations aiming at determining the sustainability of the project results.

   a) Incremental Cost Analysis


At the appraisal phase, the main global benefits proposed to be achieved through the
incremental GEF funding were (i) improved knowledge on quantification and monitoring
of carbon sequestration under different land use types; (ii) increased carbon sequestration
for climate change mitigation, (iii) improved biodiversity; and (iv) control of land
degradation. The contributions of incremental GEF funding in terms of global
environment objectives stated in the main body of this report, suggest that all proposed
global benefits have been achieved.

At appraisal phase, two independent estimations, which were not based on empirical data,
were undertaken and found out that 0.6 million tons of carbon would be sequestrated by
the project in a period of 20 years, as baseline estimation.

As a result of project implementation, based on the simulation model generated by
empirical data collected by soil institute`s researches, the carbon sequestration in the
region will be between 1.36 ­ 2.04 million tons in a period of 20 years. This provides
ample evidence that two important global benefits, namely (i) improved knowledge on
quantification and monitoring of carbon sequestration under different land use types; and
(ii) increased carbon sequestration for climate change mitigation, have been fully
achieved.
                                            21
The project achievements in terms of biodiversity conservation and control of land
degradation in the long term have also been described in the reports prepared by the
Research Institutes financed by project funds.
    b) Current Economic and Financial Analysis
The aim of this financial and economic analysis is to investigate the long-term
sustainability of project interventions implemented by local farmers. Since the economic
and financial analysis of the project was not carried out during the design stage, the
current economic and financial analysis is not compared with the baseline situation, and
instead is based on net present value (NPV) of the activities and internal rate of return
(IRR) calculations. The data used in this analysis are based on the actual project results
and data collected through the field visits and meetings with the farmers and other project
stakeholders. The data regarding the typical farm and price of the commodities were
based on available project reports.

The financial analysis has been conducted for investigating the sustainability of
"Agropyron hay and seed production", "Typical farm" and "Farm with windmill powered
water point". In this analysis, the initial investment costs of farmers, such as land and
equipment have not been taken into account since it was impossible to estimate a value
for those. Therefore, the only investment cost for these activities were assumed as the
machinery, equipment and seed cost financed by the project. The long-term period has
been defined as a period of twenty years, which is justified by the fact that Agropyron
hay and seed production can be utilized continuously in this time frame.

Agropyron production

Production of Agropyron hay and seed on the entire project area (34,500 Ha) shows good
economic return. Since different Agropyron hay cultivation technologies were applied6,
the costs vary quite significantly. For example, under Zero Tillage technology the costs
amount to US$54/ha in the first two years and to US$10/ha ­ in subsequent years,
whereas under Conservation Tillage, the costs make up US$66/ha and US$10/ha
respectively.

According to the analysis, "Agropyron hay and seed production" has a sound potential for
sustainability with an average IRR of 23% and US$2.2 million NPV for the entire area of
34,500 ha. This financial finding is also supported by the actual results in the field, since
some farmers who were not benefited by the project have started to adopt Agropyron hay
and seed production.

Typical farm production



6
 Four technologies were applied during the project period: Zero Tillage, Conservation Tillage, Sowing &
Fertilizing and Pasture Improving.


                                                   22
The concept of a typical farm has been defined in the "Monitoring Livestock Report",
representing an average farm in the region. The typical farm cultivates Agropyron on an
area of about 300 ha and keeps about 55 heads of cattle (including 25 cows), 130 sheep
and 15 horses. According to these reports, production of meat and milk increased
significantly during the project implementation period.

In the financial analysis of this typical farm, it is assumed that the only investment cost
for the first year is the cost related with hay production, such as cost of seeds, tillage,
sowing, etc. For the second and third year it is assumed that the typical farm will
purchase additional cattle and sheep as an investment cost. Based on these assumptions
the IRR has been found to be 51% for a period of 20 years and the NPV is calculated as
US$ 48,920. In addition, the project`s investment cost for machinery and equipment was
not included, because it is impossible to distribute the total cost of machinery to a single
farm. Therefore, although the actual IRR is probably lower than the calculated figure, the
income level of a typical farm had a reasonable and sustainable shift due to the transition
to Agropyron production and livestock breeding.

Farm with a windmill-powered water point

A windmill-powered water point allows farm to increase livestock production by setting
into use remote pasture and haymaking fields. On average, a typical farm can double the
size of the herd in two years. The feeding cost is lesser since consumption of hay and
concentrated feed is decreasing significantly due to expansion of grazing area. Normally
such a farm shifts to meat production due to remoteness of milk collection and processing
facilities.

In this analysis, the cost of the windmill is added to the investment cost of a typical farm,
increasing the investment cost to US$ 36,419. Therefore, the revenue of the farm shows a
considerable increase, yielding a 79% IRR and NPV of US$ 109,963. This indicates that
financial return of such farm is rather high and investment in windmill-powered water
point is justifiable.

            Table 1. Summary of financial and economic returns of DMP
                                    Investment
         Project activity                              NPV, US$       IRR, %
                                    Costs, US$
 Agropyron hay and seed               1 219 733          2 200 607      23%
 production
 Typical farm (hay, meat and              18 362            48 920      51%
 milk production)
 Farm with a windmill-powered             36 419           109 963      79%
 water point (hay, meat and milk
 production)




                                             23
Olzha-9 business models

Agropyron hay and seed production

Olzha-9 cultivates Agropyron for hay on the area of 21,800 ha for hay and for seed
production on 1,200 ha (23,000 ha in total or 67% of the project's cultivated area).
Current plans are to increase the haymaking fields annually by 1,000 ha and seed area by
200 ha. The business model shows a sufficient financial return and sustainability.

Milk collection

The milk collection equipment financed by the project was leased out to one of the milk
processors in the region. The information available suggests that this business operation
is functioning reasonably well. The purchasing price of the raw milk collected by the
processor is 37.65 KZT/kg

If the system would be administered by the farmer's organization (Olzha-9), the expected
profit margin for the collected raw milk should not be less than 7 KZT/Kg. In this case,
the price of raw milk supplied to the processor would be about 39.60 KZT/Kg, almost 2
KZT/Kg higher than the cost of milk collected under the current system. The proposed
model has also high technical and financial risks due to a lesser collection capacity and
higher cost of collected milk. In addition to this, Olzha-9 probably will not have the
assured market, leading to the conclusion that the system in place is sustainable and
adequate to the current operational capacity of the farmer's organization.
Slaughter house

According to the calculations, the slaughter house model would generate good financial
return and sustainability if it processed 100% of slaughtered animals in the Aksu-Ayuly
area where the facilities were established. It also requires intensive sale of additional
services such as freezing and storage of carcasses and meat boxing. This would demand
additional financing in the first two years.

                  Table 2. Summary of financial returns of Olzha-9
                                 Investment Costs           NPV,                  IRR,
         Business models
                                        (US$)               (US$)                  (%)
 Agropyron hay and seed                 1 219 733           2 595 769               62%
 production
 Milk collection (Olzha-9 led)             75 224              38 158              30%

 Slaughter house                            203 053                17 975          15%




                                           24
Carbon sequestration

A financial analysis for carbon sequestration was not carried out. It is difficult to identify
the cost of project activities which are directly related to carbon sequestration. On the
revenue side, there are very important achievements generated by the project which
cannot be defined in quantitative manners, such as generating empirical data on carbon
sequestration and establishing estimation models. In addition, the only quantifiable
revenue for carbon sequestration is associated with carbon markets, which cannot under
the current conditions be considered as an income generation activity for farmers in the
region.

Carbon sequestration of the project area amounted to 1.8 million tons of CO2 in the
period under review7. The estimated economic return of the project with revenue from
carbon sequestration is considerable, should a market develop. With the total project
investment costs of US$9.7 million, estimated NPV is US$2.9 million. However, it
should be taken into account that carbon credit values 8 are subject to strong annual
fluctuations, and methodologies for quantification and monitoring of soil carbon have not
been approved by UNFCCC.




7
    Based on the Soil Institute's report, it is estimated that the carbon sequestration rate is 3.0 tons / ha.

8
    Price of carbon credits is estimated as US$4.15/ton.


                                                          25
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                  Responsibility/
          Names                         Title          Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
                           Sr. Rural Development
Maurizio Guadagni                                     ECSS1 Task Team Leader
                           Specialist
                                                               Co-Task Team
Bulat Utkelov              Operations Officer         ECSS1
                                                               Leader
Jitendra Srivastava        Consultant                  ECSSD   Technical
Meeta Sehgal               Operations Analyst          ECSS1   Technical
Naushad Khan               Lead Procurement Specialist SARPS   Procurement
                                                               Financial
Roque Ardon                Consultant                 QAG
                                                               Management
                                                               Financial
Allen Wazny                Consultant
                                                               Management
Stan Peabody               Consultant                 EASIS    Social
Andrea Pape-Christiansen   Consultant                 ARD      Social
Rohan Selvaratnam          Senior Program Assistant   SASDO    Project Costs
Hannah Koilpillai          Senior Finance Officer     CTRFC    Disbursement
Kairat Nazhmidenov         Economist                  FAO      Financial Analysis
Marjory-Anne Bromhead      Adviser                    ARD      Quality Assurance

Supervision/ICR
                           Lead Natural Resources
Michael G. Carroll                                    ECSS1 SPN
                           Management Specialist
Bulat Utkelov              Operations Officer         ECSS1    SPN
Aliya Kim                  Finance Assistant          ECCKA    SPN
Anara Akhmetova            Program Assistant          ECCKZ    SPN
Andrew James Mackie        Consultant                 PRMPS    SPN
Anne N. Ranasinghe         Program Assistant          ECSC2    SPN
Dilshod Karimova           Procurement Analyst        ECSC2    SPN
Jitendra P. Srivastava     Consultant                 ECSSD    SPN
Talimjan Urazov            Operations Officer         ECSS1    SPN
                           Sr Rural Development
Maurizio Guadagni                                              SPN
                           Specialist
Pramod Agrawal             Consultant                  EASVS SPN
Nurbek Kurmanalev          Procurement Specialist      ECSC2 SPN
John C. Cole                                                 SPN
Naushad Khan               Lead Procurement Specialist SARPS SPN
                           Social Development
Janna Ryssakova                                        ECSS4 SPN
                           Specialist

                                           26
                           Senior Procurement
Yuling Zhou                                              ECSC2   SPN
                           Specialist
Kairat Nazhmidenov         Economist                     FAO     SPN / ICR
Anara Jumabayeva           Agricultural Economist        FAO     SPN / ICR
Mustafa Ugur Alver         Junior Professional Associate ECSSD   SPN / ICR
Alberto Yanosky            Consultant                            ICR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                              USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
 FY01                                      15.88                       101.35
 FY02                                      14.28                        65.19
 FY03                                      19.57                       106.91

                          Total:           49.73                       273.45
Supervision/ICR
 FY03                                       0.00                         0.29
 FY04                                      10.27                        57.31
 FY05                                      13.59                        58.47
 FY06                                      15.38                        59.43
 FY07                                      13.03                        63.07
 FY08                                      14.10                        58.20
 FY09                                      17.19                        67.94
 FY10                                       5.11                        23.98
                          Total:           88.67                       388.69




                                         27
                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


As part of project implementation, a socio-economic survey was conducted by the firm
Business Information, Social and Marketing Research Center (BISAM Central Asia) in 8
villages, with a sample of 40 farms and 100 households in Shetsky rayon. The aim of the
survey was to gather primary information about the location, population, socio-economic
development of county, status of households and farms. The survey was also intended to
obtain information about the public awareness level regarding the project and to analyze
the impact of project activities on the social and economic status of farms and households.
The project aimed to promote the transition from cereal based agricultural production to
livestock farming in a sustainable way. The project has been implemented mainly
through the establishment of farmer associations in the project area.


According to survey results, the number of families in the farms is reducing rapidly. Thus,
in 2001 one farm would consist of 5 families, while currently a similar farm consists of 1
or2 families. The reason is a strong trend towards splitting up and distancing of families
from each other. All the surveyed farms own land, so there are no purchased or rented
lands in the surveyed area. Farms have an average area of 1,365.98 hectares, almost
unchanged with respect to the situation in 2001. The area of pasture land accounts for
24% or 323 hectares on the average per farm. Main crops are wheat, barley, and hay.


During last five years, many farms became successful and living conditions in villages
has improved. However, in the past few years, climatic conditions have resulted in
financial constraints for the majority of farmers. The research revealed a three year trend
towards reduction of cereal acreage due to drought or/and lack of precipitation. Since
production of cereals became unprofitable, the role of livestock breeding has become
increasingly important for the surveyed households and the main source of income for
them. According to the survey, all of these factors have resulted in the increase in the
livestock population in the project area. Surveyed farms have increased their herds 5.5
times on average (sheep ­ 6 times, cattle and horses ­ nearly two times, whereas
surveyed households increased cattle (from 4 to 9 heads), sheep (from 7 to 15 heads) and
goats (from 4 to 9 heads).

In comparison with 2001, surveyed villages presently have a higher marketable surplus of
agricultural products. The overwhelming majority of the surveyed farms and households
market different types of livestock products (95% and 84% respectively). Adequate
veterinary services are provided in the surveyed villages by MOA officials, mostly free of
charge.

Farms involved in the project have given positive assessment to their participation in the
project. In the course of project implementation farms and households received
Agropyron (Zhitnyak) seeds, fuel, seeding machinery, including hay harvesters and seed



                                            28
treatment. As heads of farms stated, the project helped them considerably to increase
their herds and improve fodder supply.

According to the survey results, surveyed villagers (households) are quite knowledgeable
about the DMP, with a high project awareness level and participation in the project. The
survey also showed that the project a) improved living standards, b) promoted the
transition to traditional livestock production, c) increased production of fodder crops with
soil-protecting techniques, and other positive results. According to the survey results, the
project has helped to improve the situation with regards to: animal feeding (45% and 32%
of the surveyed farms and households respectively), increasing the planted areas of
perennial grass (40% and 21%) and increasing livestock numbers (43% and 31%).

On the other hand, in the results of the survey suggest that the awareness and perception
of success is different among farmers and households, since 88% of farm heads assessed
that the establishment of farm associations were successful whereas 52% of household
heads assessed them as somewhat unsuccessful. Surveyed households indicated that some
of the activities in the project could have been implemented more efficiently. According
to the survey results, interviewed participants believed that (i) the rise in fodder
production and productivity is due to an increase in livestock numbers; (ii) farmers'
associations did not help lobbying for more favorable prices for animal products; (iii)
most farms and households still sell their animal products outside of the project area; (iv)
project funds have been directed, primarily, to the farms, and households have benefited
less from the project, (v) the project has not influenced the grazing practices used by
households, as villagers appear to still graze their animals near the villages.


Additional information on project beneficiaries and areas of project interventions.

Olzha-9 is composed of a total 9 associations and other farmers, totaling 133 farmers
represented which were benefitted by the DMP and have planted a total of 34,500
hectares of Agropyron, an average of 260 hectares per farmer. Olzha-9 operates in the
Shetksy Rayon with 10 rural districts (villages-associated) with a total number of farmers
estimated in 673, thus the project has reached 20% of the landholders in the Rayon.
These 20% of landholders own 5.7% of the area. The following table gives a breakdown
of information by district.

                                                           Farmers
          Rural          Total                              with     Area of
         Districts      Farmers    Total area Association Agropyron Agropyron
            1             110       67436        yes         24       2545
            2             104       67363        yes         28       10962
            3             61        46326        yes         10       1989
            4             64        63346        yes          6       4762
            5             103       64848        yes          8       1270
            6             79        79593        yes         17       4015

                                            29
            7           38         72648        yes         16          5490
            8           37        55554         no            7         1006
            9           42        38233         no           14         1471
           10           35        45218         no            3          990
          Total         673       600565                    133        34500

Additionally, the project planned to promote improved management of degraded pastures
and rangelands by reducing grazing pressures and increasing vegetative cover in 50,000
ha. The project has demonstrated to have improved an area of 105,000 ha of degraded
pastures. According to a report of a livestock consultant (Mr. Alimayev) the area been
impacted directly and indirectly is 723,456 hectares, representing over 50% of the
Shetsky rayon.




                                           30
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A pre-preparation mission in September 2000 to the proposed pilot project area discussed
project objectives with farmers and local representatives from all sub-districts, which
provided additional insight to constraints faced by the rural population and the desire to
improve their incomes by investing in sustainable agro-pastoral practices. This support
for the project had been confirmed by the baseline survey carried out in 2001. During
further preparatory work, full discussions took place throughout the project area and
project activities were based on the needs of the farmers, who would be co-opted into
assisting with the management plans. In the case of peasant farms consisting of multiple
households, representatives of the individual households were involved in the discussions
and decision-making on project participation. The project was also designed to empower
producers and encourage their participation in producer associations.

The PAD also identified other stakeholders, such as government and local authority
counterparts collaborating with various research institutions and continuing to actively
pursue options for co-financing and establishing links between the proposed project and
related national and international initiatives. The components of the project were
identified as priorities in the country's agricultural strategy.

At project completion, a workshop was held on December 4, 2009 in Astana led by the
Vice-Minister of Environmental Protection, Ms. Savakasova Eldana Makinovna, and
attended by the Bank team, partnering Institutes and representatives of farmer
associations from the project area. More specifically, participants included the Ministry's
Chief for the Department of Legal Policy and International Cooperation, Mr. Alexander
Bragin. Representatives of the Soil Institute, the Airspace Institute, CIMMYT, and
Olzha-9, as well as other authorities of the Ministry, including the PMU staff. In this
workshop, Olzha-9 farmers and representatives of Institutes had a chance to describe
their experience and share their comments regarding the project. Olzha ­ 9 farmers
provided detailed information about their farms and also expressed their opinion about
the project and the future of the activities in the region. Farmers indicated that they were
satisfied with Agropyron, and they were also planning to continue planting Agropyron
after the closing of the project. In addition, it was indicated that the milk production
activities in the region have a reasonable improvement and that milk sales have become
an important income generation activity for the farmers and households in the Rayon.

Representatives from the Soil Institute and the Space Research Institute informed the
participants about their research on soil classification and composition, the associated
GIS information and results of producing perennials and annual grasses at a lower cost, in
their presentations. Carbon and land-use practices during previous, present and future
conditions raised the attention of authorities, demonstrating the importance of
conservation practices for carbon storage. In addition, it was indicated that scientific data
generated for the first time in the region regarding carbon sequestration issues. Moreover,
the importance of strengthening the relations between institutes thanks to this effective
collaboration was highlighted.



                                             31
 The members of Olzha-9 indicated the importance of this project in terms of promoting
 innovation and sustainable land use practices in their region. In addition, the future of
 these practices, their sustainability and the possibilities of replication in neighboring areas
 within and outside the Shetksy Rayon were discussed. Two principal business-oriented
 investments managed within Olzha-9, the creation of a slaughterhouse and a milk
 collection center, were presented by their representatives and their impacts in the local
 communities were discussed. In both cases, both activities have possibly supported an
 increase in income generation by providing a mechanism for local commercialization and
 diminishing human efforts necessary for sale of their products.

 All results were broadly discussed during the workshop, generating interest in their
 impact by national authorities, for the potential for replication and for the possibilities of
 expansion into a broader scope, including carbon accounting for best practices and its
 contribution to reduce CO2 emissions from agriculture, as well as the capture of carbon
 by improved techniques. Authorities expressed to be very positively impacted by the
 results, the increase in carbon stored in soils due to better agricultural practices and its
 potential use, in the context of the recent GOK decision to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.

 List of Beneficiaries and other Stakeholders met and interviewed during the mission

   i.   ViceMinister Sadvakasova Eldana Makinovna ­ Ministry of Environmental
        Protection
  ii.   Sholpan Moldakhmetova, Director DMP.
iii.    Talgat Kassymkhanov, Chief Accounting Consultant, DMP.
 iv.    Aigherim Malik, PMU DMP
  v.    Ryscali Saduakas, PMU DMP
 vi.    Ashimov Yerlan M., General Director, Natige Dairy Plant (Karaganda)
vii.    Bulat Utkelov, Director of Kazakhstan Biodiversity Conservation Fund and
        former TTL (Astana)
viii.   Olzha-9 Association, nine members interviewed.
 ix.    Konstantin Pachikin, Research Institute of Soil Sciences & Agro chemistry
  x.    Nadiya Muratova, National Space Agency, National Center of Space Researches
        and Technologies.
 xi.    Arman Baitassov, CIMMYT




                                               32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              33
      Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                     34
                   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. World Bank. No Data. Kazakhstan, Forest Sector in Transition: The Resource, the
    Users and Sustainable Use. 62 pp.
2. World Bank. Kazakhstan. Rangelands in transition. The resource, the users and
    sustainable use. 55 pp.
3. World Bank. 2004. Kazakhstan`s Livestock Sector, Supporting Its Revival. 136
    pp.
4. World Bank Project Appraisal Document. 2005. Forest Protection and
    Reforestation Project. 105 pp.
5. Sustainable and environmentally sound land use in rural areas with special
    attention to land degradation. An issue paper. ASIA-PACIFIC FORUM FOR
    ENVIRONMENT AND DEVELOPMENT, EXPERT MEETING. 2003, Guilin,
    People's Republic of China
6. Project_Contracts.xls subject to pre-review extracted from client connection.
7. Minutes of the Steering Committee, 2nd meeting - 2006 (in Russian), 4 pp.
8. Minutes of Protocol ­ Olzha 9 Training (in Russian), 2 pp.
9. Minutes of Meeting of the Steering Committee and The World Bank 2008 (in
    Russian), 5 pp.
10. List_foreign suppl..xls provided by the PMU
11. List of Project Beneficiaries with specific information (in Russian), 4 pp.
12. List of invasive species found in project sites. Russian version with English
    names, 5 pp.
13. List of assets purchased by the Project (in Russian), 5 pp.
14. List contracts by years.xls provided by the PMU
15. Letters of endorsement by Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Natural
    Resources and Environmental Protection / Republic of Kazakhstan
16. Kazak DMP Project Proposal (electronic file) dated 12 August 2002, 57 pp.
17. Kazahstan Press Club, 2007c - Media Clippings (in Russian), 10 pp.
18. Kazahstan Press Club, 2007b ­ Report (in Russian), 7 pp.
19. Kazahstan Press Club, 2007a ­ Report (in Russian), 6 pp.
20. Horton, S. Is Kazakhstan Taking Reform Seriously? Keynote presentation
    delivered at the Columbia University School of International & Public
    Affairs Conference "Kazakhstan's Economic Development After the
    Russian Crisis," New York, April 29.
21. Grant Agreement, September 2003 and Letter of World Bank to Minister of
    Environmental Protection.
22. GEF Information on line
    http://gefonline.org/projectDetailsSQL.cfm?projID=1244
23. Ex-Post Review for KZ Drylands Mgmt_Dec08_FY09_FINAL as sent to
    Client.doc from client connection.
24. Designated_Account.xls extracted from client connection
25. Category_Schedule.xls extracted from client connection
26. Business Plan prepared by Olzha 9 for the use of machinery ­ 2009 (in Russian),
    8 pp.
27. BIDS.xls extracted from client connection

                                      35
28. Aide-Memoire, Supervision mission, 03-14 December 2008
29. Aide-Memoire, Supervision mission, October16-27, 2006
30. Aide-Memoire, Supervision mission, November 27 ­ December 7, 2007
31. Aide-Memoire, Supervision mission, May 27 ­ June 7, 2008
32. Aide-Memoire, Supervision mission, May 10-17, 2007
33. Aide-Memoire, Mid Term Review Supervision Mission, 16-27 October 2006
34. Aide-Memoire (Final Supervision mission, November 30 ­ December 11, 2009
35. 8-12-02 Kazak Dryland Cover Memo / Submission for Work Program Inclusion,
    11 March 2002
36. "Drylands Management" Project Implementation Summary Report GEF TF
    052161-KZ Grant. Ministry of Environment Protection (Translation from Russian
    ­ Final Report to the Bank).




                                     36
                                                 55°N              50°E                         55°E                                60°E                    65°E                          To         70°E                               75°E                            To         80°E                               85°E
                                                                                                                                                                                       Tyumen`                                                                       Novosibirsk

                                                                                                                                                      To Kurgan

                                                                     R U S S I A N                                                  To Chelyabinsk
                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Novosibirsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C H I N A
                                                                  F E D E R A T I O N                                                                  Toby                            KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Petropavlovsk




                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                 lga
                                                                                                                                  To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Er
                                               Vo                      To                                                         Ufa
                                                                                                                                                     Kostanai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tis
                                                                     Samara                                                                                                                                                                        (Ir                                                   To Barnaul
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kokshetau                                    ty
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sh




                                                                                                                         Ural
                                         To                                                                                                                                                                                                                  )
                                                                                                         To Orenburg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ob
                                       Saratov




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           `
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pavlodar
                                                                                                                                                                                                 AKMOLA                                           PAVLODAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ekibastuz
               50°N                                      Ural'sk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50°N
                                                                                                                                                 KOSTANAI                                     l (Ishim)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ASTANA
                                                                                                                                                                                          Esi
                                                       Chapaevo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         skemen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Öskemen
                                                                   Zhai



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Semipalatinsk    (Ust-Kamenogorsk)
                                         WEST
                                                                       yk (U




                                                                                                Aktobe
                                      KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                             ral)




                                                                                                                                                         To r g
                                                                                                                                                                  hai
                                                                                                                                                                        Arkalyk                                 Karagandy                                                                             EAST                         Lake




                                                                                                                                   Yrgh
                                                                                                                                                     Turgay                                                                                                                                        KAZAKHSTAN                     Zaisan




                                                                                                                                       yz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shetsky Rayon
                                Vo
                                lga




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ayakos
                                                                   ATYRAU                                              Embi

                                                                                                Z  hem          AKTOBE
                                                                                                                                Shalkar                                                                             KARAGHANDY
                To Astrakhan`




                                                                   Atyrau                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                            Zhezkazgan                                                                                                                   Alakol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Balkhash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lep                            To Urumqi
                                                                                                                                              Aral                                                                                                                                                           si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45vN




                                                                                                                                                                                            u
               45°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                         rys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Saryshaghan                             Balkash               ar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K
                                                                                                                                                                                       Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l                                      To Urumqi
                                                                                    Beineu
                                                                                                                                                     Baikonur                                                                                                  Ile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Taldykorgan
                                                          MANGYSTAU                                                                                                                                                 ZHAMBYL                                            ALMATY
                                      Ca




                                                                                                                         Aral
                                                                                                                                                                        Kyzyl-Orda                                   Shu
                                       sp




                                                        Aktau                                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                             KYZYLORDA                                                                       (Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u)                                                                                                    To Korla
                                        ia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ta




                                                                                                                                                                        Sy
                                           n




                                                                                                                                                                          da                                           las
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Shu




                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                    To Nukus
                                                                                                                                                                            r i ya                                                                                                          Almaty
                                            Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                Turkistan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Taraz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                        SOUTH                                                                                 To Naryn
                                                                                                                                                                                            Shymkent                                                                                                              80°E
               AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KYRGYZ
               40°N
                                                                                                                                            UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                                            UZB EK ISTA N                       KAZAKHSTAN                                                                   K A Z A K H STA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R E P. DRYLANDS MANAGEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40°N     PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AREAS
                                                                                             TURKMENISTAN                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                             Bukhoro
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Dushanbe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OBLAST CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                            TAJIKISTAN                                                                                   GALASY (CITIES WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REGIONAL STATUS)
                                                 KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Map Desi gn Unit of The World                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                               0          100          200      300 Kilometers                                                                               Bank. The boundaries, colors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             denominations and any other                                                 MAIN ROADS
OCTOBER 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             information shown on this map do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 38116
                                                                                               0                100              200 Miles                                                                                   n o t i m p l y, o n t h e p a r t o f T h e

                                                                                                                                                                             AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                             A FGHA NISTA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             on the legal status of any                                                  OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             territory, or any endorsement or
                  50°E                                             55°E                                           60°E                                  65°E                                                    70°E         acceptance of such boundaries.                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
