                                                                                                                99853




Bringing Kazakh Drylands Back to Life
Margarita Grigoryeva of the Kazakhstan Communications
Team offers this story.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
Drylands—an ecosystem characterized by lack of water,
which limits the production of crops, forage and wood.

Many people living in Kazakh drylands struggle to sustain
their livelihoods. Growing crops and grazing cattle in this
difficult environment is a major challenge. In the previous
decades, over 86% of Kazakhstan's drylands territory was
largely transformed by human activities. And 3.5 million
people—half of Kazakhstan's drylands inhabitants—are poor
and marginalized.                                                  Related Links

Is it possible to revive these lands and bring back life and       World Bank in Kazakhstan
prosperity? Can Kazakhstan, a country known by its wheat,
                                                                   Drylands Management Project
cattle, and oil as well as huge areas of drylands, set an
example?                                                           Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of
                                                                   Kazakhstan
In the 1950s, the country's drylands ecosystem was
considered sustainable. Over the years, however, 35 million hectares of virgin and fallow lands were
ploughed and used for agriculture. As a result, the soil lost over 30% of humus—a conditioner which
helps the soil retain water and nutrients—and the ecological balance became increasingly disturbed.

As the soil degraded, more fertilizers were needed for the land to yield crops, so more land was
ploughed. When state support for grain production ended, it became obvious the land could no longer
sustain wheat production without a huge infusion of funds.

                        "In 1995, when reforms were launched in agricultural sector, I established a
                        small farm to produce cereals but stopped after 2 unsuccessful years. It made
                        no sense to continue. The yield was no more than 300 kilograms per hectare,"
                        says farmer Aslan Kudaibergenov about his experience of trying to produce
                        grain at a loss.

                         Grazing cattle also became a problem. After collective farms ceased to exist,
                         irrigation and soil rehabilitation stopped, too. Tanker trucks no longer delivered
Aslan Kudaibergenov      water to faraway pastures. The ground and water sources dried up, and grazing
                         livestock trampled the earth into dust. Herders then grazed their cattle close by
their settlements, soon overcrowding pastures and depleting them.

By 2004, the soil was so degraded that the situation became critical for farmers living in Karaganda
oblast. That is when the Government of Kazakhstan and the World Bank joined forces with the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF) and launched the US$9.7 million Drylands Management Project.

The project aimed to test the viability on people, the economy and the environment of shifting from
growing cereals to raising livestock. Stopping soil degradation was critical. Rehabilitating abandoned
lands and introducing sustainable land cultivation systems were priorities. Shetskiy region of Karaganda
oblast—the pilot area of the project—had 19,500 people living in drylands totaling almost 66,000 square
kilometers including 20,000 hectares of abandoned cereal lands.

During the life of the project, over 35,000 hectares of land were restored and now grow perennial fodder
crops. Thanks to the public awareness campaign launched by the Government, many farmers are
planting grasses on their own. Their incomes have increased because they can graze more livestock,
thanks to more fertile lands and by extending their grazing territory to remote pastures where windmills
and solar batteries insure water, light and heating at encampments. Thanks to the project, farmers in the
pilot area have formed an association, Olzha-9, and jointly plant crops, raise cattle and sell milk. They
have also opened a training center where they can share their experiences.

                        "We use the revived fields for cattle grazing and hay. The project gave us a
                        'fishing rod,' and we now can grow perennials, increase the number of cattle and
                        increase our own income," says Erbol Ungarov, head of the association.

                        After the project closed, the association has begun establishing a dairy farm
                        with more than 100 cows of a breed, which adapted to life on the steppe. The
                        farmers plan to double the quantity of cows they own and milk. Calves and milk
                        are already selling at a good price.
Erbol Ungarov
                        "I am sure it is not the end of the project, but the beginning of future
development and growth. The long lasting effect of the project is the result of the enthusiasm of all
partners. My wish to the farmers who continue the business of reviving agriculture in the drylands of
Shetskiy region would be to remember that they are also doing it for other drylands inhabitants across
the country," notes Michael Carroll, World Bank project manager.

The success of the project has been inspiring and the Government is now discussing the possibility to
expand the experience and knowledge gained to improve livestock production and overall livelihoods of
rural population in the other drylands territories of Kazakhstan.
