Report No. PID10764
Project Name                     Mozambique-Public Sector Reform
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Civil Service Reform
Project ID                       MZPE72080
Borrower(s)                      Government Of Mozambique
Implementing Agency
Government Of Mozambique
Unit for the Reform of the Public Service,
UTRESP
Address: Rua Radio, Maputo
Contact Person: Adelino da Cruz
Tel: 258 82 302 258
Email: dacruz@zebra.uem.mz
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 12, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 31, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 30, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Although Mozambique's policy performance has been good (the overall CPIA
rating for 2000 was above the average for Africa), starting from a very
low base following the civil war, there are substantial concerns about the
sustainability of that performance. The critical problems are as
follows:quality of civil servants: civil servants in Mozambique are among
the most poorly educated in Africa; they are also poorly paid; technical
and professional staff are particularly poorly paid compared to the
private sectorweak accountability: there is no accounting profession in
Mozambique, and not a single Mozambican qualified to international
standards; weak oversight by the National Assembly and citizens; and
almost no follow-up on the implementation of policiescomplex service
delivery processes: centralized, complicated and confusing.2.1 Main
sector issues"We want a public sector that transmits efficiency a new
culture for the public service should be developed as we advance toward a
market system." The Prime Minister.In this quotation, the Prime Minister
admits that the public service is inefficient and not well organized to
support Mozambique's transformation from a centrally planned to a market
economy.From its independence in 1975 to the mid-1980s, Mozambique
followed a central planning model and launched a radical Marxist
experiment. This was quickly disrupted by the civil war which thrived from
the mid-1970s to the Peace accord in 1992 and destroyed social and
productive infrastructure. Civil war, compounded with poor policy choices
and disastrous economic management, brought the country to the verge of
collapse.Market-oriented economic reforms in place since 1987 have reduced
inflation and attracted foreign investment. A new constitution was enacted
in 1990. Since the signing of the peace agreement in 1992, the country has
successfully held two democratic elections. In this relatively stable



political environment, economic growth has been impressive, exceeding 10
percent on average in the past few years. However, the challenges of
development remain daunting. The public sector is staffed with poorly
qualified civil servants, who are very badly paid. Not surprisingly, many
are corrupt. A high proportion, especially of the better educated, are
based in Maputo. Many citizens do not receive any public services at all.
The rest suffer from very poor service delivery. Public servants, many of
whom are still directly involved in service delivery still treat the
receipt of public service as a privilege not a right. Processes need
profound restructuring. Over-regulation exemplifies the situation. A 1996
World Bank study, "Mozambique, Administrative Barriers to Investment: the
Red Tape Analysis", describes the lengthy, unpredictable and highly
complicated administrative processes for investment, leading to
significant costs at the outset and during the life of the business,
lending lost output and employment. An outdated legal and regulatory
framework, uncertainties of changing legal rules, lack of transparency and
poor training of public servants in the implementation of the rules make
life difficult for businesses as well as citizens New research confirms
that the situation did not improve much since that study. Rated with 74
other countries on the time and cost of entry of a start-up firm,
Mozambique comes second to last (Djankov, La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes and
Schleifer, NBER Working paper 7982, 2000).The public sector is still very
much functioning on a self-centered paradigm. The notion of accountability
of the public servant to the users and citizens is still relatively new,
and participation of citizen groups or the private sector in the oversight
of public administration, as well as in information-sharing, is still
poorly developed. This is partly because civil society is still relatively
poorly organized.The issues discussed below are based upon the studies and
workshops undertaken over the past 3 years. These are summarized in Box
l.Service delivery is still highly centralizedThe Mozambican State still
functions in a paradigm of centralism and hierarchy. A strong centralist
tradition accounts for a public sector "under-administered" outside the
capital. Devolved local administration covers only the larger
municipalities. There is a dual subordination to the center, through the
sector ministries and governors and provincial administrations. The
traditional practice of treating provincial services as extensions of
central programs has done little to encourage the staffing of local
administration with qualified staff. Similarly, equipment, and
infrastructures are very limited outside the capital, and working
conditions generally very poor.Following a constitutional change in 1996,
33 municipalities were created in 1997. However, many of the regulations
remain to be enacted.    There is the potential for conflict between the
municipalities and the deconcentrated administrations of the sector
ministries. This first step towards genuine decentralization needs to be
accompanied by structured policies of transfer of powers and resources,
which obviously must be gradual, in view of the extremely low capacities
at the municipal level.    In particular the capacity of municipalities and
the local office of ministries to manage finances is very weak. Although
there is a widespread appreciation that gradualism is required, there is
no clear timetable for the reforms.The move of key public sector functions
down to different sub-national tiers of government must occur in parallel
with a change of the role of the center, from a provider to a facilitator.
Functions of state organizations at the center should be reoriented
towards formulating, monitoring and facilitating the implementation of
policies.To assist in the design of the project a study is being
- 2 -



undertaken of the administrative constraints to service delivery. This
study will compare the formal and informal service delivery systems in key
sectors. Interviews with Bank's team leaders in the key sectors have
taken place. Future work will include studies in Mozambique that will
compare what actually happens on the ground with what laws and
administrative manuals say should happen, and assess the impact that the
divergence between principle and practice has on frontline service
delivery.Civil servants lack the skills and incentives to serve citizens
and businesses well Despite continuing efforts to improve the educational
level of its population, Mozambique is still facing an acute shortage of
higher-educated people. In 1999, total enrollment in higher education was
11,600, but the total number of new higher education graduates in
Mozambique was only 483 in 1998.The result is that out of over 100,000
civil servants (excluding the armed forces), only about 3 percent have a
degree, almost all of whom are based in Maputo. Furthermore, 52 per cent
of managers do not have the qualifications required for their jobs.On the
demand side low working conditions and pay levels compared to the
"international donor sector" and even to the private sector impede the
public sector from attracting enough skilled staff. Absence of a sound
human resources management policy, and of links between recruitment and
promotion and performance are aggravated by the complexity of the rules
and lack of clarity of the mandates. A recent study has shown that only 13
per cent of civil servants are appointed through a competitive process --
family and party connections are more important. Poor formal incentives
are breeding ground for corruption. Very few channels of communication
exist between top civil servants and their staff and little knowledge of
the rules contributes to slow implementation and lack of individual
initiative. Public institutions are not assessed in terms of performance
against expected results but, if at all, in terms of following procedures
correctly.Furthermore, as a result of the very recent democratization and
of years of armed conflict, the public sector tends to be somewhat
politicized. Top civil servants and governors are appointed by the leaders
of the party in power more on the basis of their loyalty than their
technical merit.There is little accountability for the use of scarce
resourcesDespite some improvement in terms of a more transparent and
comprehensive budgeting process, several factors contribute to a
relatively poor allocation and use of resources. There findings were
confirmed by the draft PER and draft CFAA, July, 2001: the functional
classification is not sufficiently disagregated, hindering the efforts to
efficiently measure and monitor the impact of public expendituresthe
Inspectorate General of Finance (internal audit) and the National
Administrative Tribunal (external audit) lack trained and qualified staff
as well as budgetary resources. There is no value for money auditthe MTEF
has not been formally institutionalizedthe level of extra-budgetary flows
leave important resources unaccounted forneither parliament, civil society
nor the private sector participates effectively in the planning, budgeting
and financial management processthe legal framework for accountability is
deficient inasmuch as public information about the Government's
performance is insufficient. The current framework does not require
leaders to declare their assets and liabilities, there is no freedom of
access to information in place that would provide for citizens to be
better informed, there is no whistle-blower legislation in place that
would provide protection to citizens who report corrupt practice, and the
rules of evidence do not require leaders and other public officials to
explain how they became wealthy while in office. Annex 4, Improving
-3 -



Expenditure Management, brings together the findings of the draft CFAA and
PER with the ogjectives of the Government's reform strategy.     The
analysis covers the allocation of resources, managing budget execution,
cash and assets, and accounting for the uses of resources. It outlines a
plan of action for the preparatory year, the first year of the project,
and the subsequent years. The team responsible for the CFAA assumes that
this project will be the principal mechanism by which financial
accountability will be improved in preparation for the first PRSC.Policy
coordination, monitoring and evaluation are weak Public policies are not
formulated according to a standard format. Little effective analysis
precedes their submission to the Council of Ministers. The linkage
between policy and resources is weak. There is little coordination either
at the center or in the provinces in the preparation and implementation of
policies, and there is virtually no monitoring of the implementation of
policies or evaluations of their impact.Box lAnalytical Underpinning for
the ProjectA number of preparatory activities have been undertaken by the
Bank and the Government over the past three years:Review of Public Sector
Reform in Mozambique, July, 1998, carried out by Bank staff in
collaboration with Government.Reform of the Mozambican Public Sector:
Strategy and Actions, August, 1998, Government of Mozambique - based upon
above study.Workshop on public sector reform issues, February, 2000:
meeting of senior officials and academics to identify administrative
constraints and possible solutions.Pay policy study, ongoing, 2000-2001:
preparation of sustainable pay reform options and design of medium term
donor support scheme.Policy process study, ongoing, 2001: study of the
process by which policy is formulated, decided upon, implemented and
monitored.Workshops in 2001 to discuss reform issues with groups of
stakeholders: permanent secretaries, NGOs, religious groups, journalists,
trade unions, donors, private sector, and national directors. Each
participant completed a questionnaire identifying key constraints.Draft
Country Financial Accountability Assessment, July, 2001.Draft Public
Expenditure Review, July 2001.Interim PARPA.Civil Service Management
System: An Analysis of Reforms To Date and Emerging Next Steps, Draft,
July, 2001.Politica Salarial a Medio Prazo, UTRESP, Draft, May,
2001.Improving Expenditure Management in Mozambique, World Bank, July,
2001.Administrative Constraints to Decentralized Service Delivery, World
Bank, August, 2001.Future studies: changing role of government and
decentralization; governance baseline survey (households', businesses',
and public servants' experiences and perceptions of service delivery).2.2
Government strategyIssued in August 1998, the "Reform of the Mozambican
Public Sector, Strategy and Actions" (Republic of Mozambique), describes
the different areas already undergoing reforms, and the need for
articulating a strategy to move "in the direction of a new organizational
culture for the public sector, centered on efficacy and transparency", as
well as the changes to be made to transform the public sector, currently
centered around the delivery of service, to a "facilitator". This
document, presented at the 1998 CG meeting together with a public sector
study jointly undertaken by the World Bank and the GOM, provides the first
underpinning diagnosis for the elaboration of the public sector reform
strategy. Reform actions of the past few years have focused on three main
issues: the rationalization of human resource, through the establishment
of a new Career and Remuneration System, measures of salary decompression
and the implementation of a Human Resources Management System
(computerized database), as well as the establishment of a program of
training for public servants (Public Service Training System, SIFAP) and a
-4 -



State Administrative Inspectorate.institutional reform through measures
towards deconcentration and decentralization (creation of local
governments, municipal elections)reform of the budget system, with the
enactment of a new Budget Law (1997) and its corresponding
regulations.Over the past year, following the 1999 elections, the
President established the Inter-ministerial Commission for the Reform of
the Public Service (CIRESP), chaired by the Prime Minister. The Council
of Ministers then set up the Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public
Service (UTRESP) to be a secretariat to CIRESP. CIRESP recently approved
the reform strategy prepared by UTRESP: Estrategia da Reforma do Sector
Publico 2001-2011.The strategy defines public sector reform as the cross
and multi-sectoral reforms in processes and institutions needed to support
reforms in the separate sectors leading to improvements in the delivery of
services to all citizens and businesses.The Council of Ministers has
decided that the reform will cover all institutions financed directly or
indirectly by the State, except the Parliament; and will focus on
restructuring the State so that public servants will become more
results-oriented.The Strategy includes a Quick Wins Program, which
consists of identification of measures that could be successfully
implemented in a relatively short period, and would be highly visible,
partly to build up support for the reform program.     The CM has requested
that all ministries prepare and implement quick wins; The Prime Minister
has been given responsibility for this program.The GOM Strategy takes
account of the GOM's poverty reduction objectives set forth in PARPA.
Good governance is described in PARPA as one of the fundamental conditions
for poverty reduction, improved public service delivery and sustainable
economic growth.    Stakeholders consulted as part of the PARPA process
stressed the need for good governance (and in particular decentralization
and deconcentration policies that favored participative development at the
local levels). They also highlighted the need for the State to improve
its capacity to act energetically on its policy and program choices, as
well as the importance of fighting corruption and establishing a more
mutually supportive relationship between public institutions and
citizens.President Chissano launched the reform of the public sector,
based upon this Strategy, on June 25th , 2001 National Day, in a speech
to the nation. A summary of his speech can be found in Annex 4. Key
points from the speech are shown in Box 2.Box 2Quotations from the
President's Speech Launching the Public Sector Reform ProgramNational Day,
June 25, 2001, Bagamoio barrio, MaputoThe public sector has generally
operated with low levels of efficiency and has provided the citizens with
low levels of efficiency.There is now a generalized trend for civil
servants to demand illicit payments for providing the services that are
the job of the civil service.Examples of corruption: The mother or father
of a family who must "offer thanks" in order to enroll their son at school
. The patient who is only cared for if he gives the health worker "a
little envelope" ..the driver who must buy a beer or "act like a man" to
the police to avoid a fine.The Government wants a public service that is
flexible, decentralized, free of red tape, simplified, modernized,
competitive, and concerned with the results and quality of services
provided to the citizens.The public service must be transparent     endowed
with qualified, professional staff.I want to see participatory mechanisms
institutionalized which allow us to identify more securely the desires and
needs of citizens.At the top of the list of reforms is the rationalization
of procedures and the decentralization of administrative structures and
processes in order to make them more efficient and accessible to the
- 5 -



citizens.From 2001 to 2004 the basic conditions would be established for
the profound transformation of the public sector.Up to 2011, programs with
a much broader impact would be implemented .the public sector will be a
sector working for results and for citizens.
2. Objectives
To support the Government to put in place basic accountability capacity,
prepare for restructuring the public service to decentralize service
delivery, and improve wage incentives.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Past involvement in the sector: Through a Capacity Building project and an
IDF grant, the Bank team has already developed a close working
relationship with the implementation agency for the public sector reform,
the UTRESP. Technical leadership on Public Sector Reform: The Bank has
provided technical assistance to UTRESP, and is a member of the donors
working group on public sector reform. Capacity and knowledge: the Bank
has the required experience in the sector, as well as the capacity and
instruments to put in place a large-scale and long-term project.
4. Description
1. Initiate reengineering, restructuring and decentralization of service
delivery Prepare a long term vision for improving service delivery by
moving the point of delivery closer to the intended beneficiary (study
will shortly be undertaken of perceptions and experience of public service
delivery)Design a change management process for implementing the above
visionTrain UTRESP and ministerial staff in change management Support the
preparation of process reengineering, restructuring and decentralization
plans by five pilot ministries, possibly including MFP and MAE as well as
three sector ministries that are keys to poverty alleviationReview
training needs in light of reengineering and restructuring, prepare
training capacity building plan, and adjust SIFAP to include distance
learning (There are ongoing discussions with the Bank on upgrading global
distance learning in Mozambique, to include three regional centers, and on
establishing distance learning within the country. The current plan is to
upgrade the existing center and add two more in the regions over the
coming 18 months. Training programs for public servants would provide
major demand for these facilities. There are already plans to set up
regional training centers for civil servants.)Under Quick Wins Program,
provide support to ministries for each to implement at least one service
improvement2. Motivate and train public servants to become more responsive
to the needs of citizens and businessesSupport implementation of
sustainable medium term pay strategy to establish the priorities for
raising the salaries of civil servants within the context of the revenue
expectations of government and the policy priorities established in MTEF
(study is nearing completion)Support implementation of donor supported
on-budget fund that will provide basis for supplementing the salaries of
key staff within framework of medium term pay strategyPrepare plans to
introduce results oriented performance management for senior managers and
in key central coordination agencies Establish demand driven public sector
training fund3. Improve allocation, efficient use and accountability of
public resources Improve the process by which the Council of Ministers
exercises its collective responsibility through improving policy
formulation, decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
(study will shortly be completed)Strengthen the capacity of the Office of
- 6 -



the President and the Office of the Prime Minister as the managers of the
policy process through adequate staffing, training and equipmentBuild
capacity to link policy and resources more closely, especially through the
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Plan (PARPA)Strengthen capacity to conduct internal and external
auditsStrengthen capacity for cash managementPrepare plan for an
Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS)Support
implementation of legal framework for procurementPrepare and begin
implementation of plan to establish procurement capacity in the sector
ministries, including training of procurement staffProvide support to
establish Office of the OmbudsmanDevelop anti-corruption prosecution
capacity of Office of Attorney-General (an anti-corruption strategy has
been drafted)4.    Program CoordinationBuild capacity of UTRESP to
coordinate, and administer the program through training, advisory services
and equipmentEstablish Council of Advisors drawn from outside and inside
the public service
Restructuring
Incentives
Accountability
Coordination
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 0
Total Project Cost 35
6. Implementation
To provide political leadership for the reform process, the President and
the Council of Ministers established the Inter-ministerial Commission for
the Reform of the Public Sector (CIRESP). The Prime Minister is the
president of CIRESP, and the Minister of State Administration is the
vice-president. Other members are the Ministers of Justice, Public Works
and Habitation, Education, Planning and Finances, Agriculture and Rural
Development, Tourism, Industry and Trade, Labor and Health. CIRESP
reviews all proposal for reform prior to their submission to the Council
of Ministers (CM) and monitors the implementation of the reform program.
The Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector (UTRESP) has been
set up to supports CIRESP. Project implementation will be coordinated by
UTRESP. UTRESP will be accountable for achieving the projects
objectives.  Oversight will be provided by CIRESP.     All funds will flow
through UTRESP to the participating ministries and agencies.UTRESP is
staffed by a Director, and will be staffed by three full-time professional
staff specializing in economics, public administration and law, and an
administrator. The Director also has access to an advisory panel of
senior staff drawn from key ministries (Finance Justice, Industry and
Commerce and State Administration).    Funding is provided for the Unit by
the national budget and a group of donors, including the Bank.Focal points
have been established in all ministries. These are senior civil servants
who have worked with UTRESP in the preparation of the reform strategy and
will assist in the implementation of the reforms. CIRESP meets with the
Director of UTRESP about every two months. The Director is in almost
daily contact with the President of CIRESP, the Prime Minister, by e
mail, phone or personally. He is also frequently in touch with the
Vice-President of CIRESP, the Minister of State Administration and his
Vice Minister. The Director also has frequent contact with three key
-7 -



ministries: Finance, Justice and Industry and Commerce. As the project
proceeds there will be more frequent meeting with the focal points in the
ministries (these are the Permanent Secretaries).UTRESP will be
responsible for all financial reports and for coordinating procurement.
UTRESP will appoint financial management and procurement managers.
Auditing will be carried out by the Administrative Tribunal.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability will depend upon:political leadership: the President, Prime
Minister and Council of Minister support the reformsfirm local ownership:
the project is based upon the GOM reform strategysystematic participation
of stakeholders: there is an ongoing series of stakeholder
consultationsclearly defined change management bodies at all levels
(mainstreaming reform): change managers are senior staff in the
ministriesadherence to work plan: targets have been widely
publicizedcapacity to maintain long-term vision while achieving immediate
objectives: GOM and project have 10 year vision, as well as Quick Wins
Programa judicial sector with the capacity to support the public sector in
its role as a regulator and guarantee fair treatment for citizens and
businesses: other donors supporting reforms in judicial sector
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from Mozambique projectsSeveral lessons have been learned from the
Legal and Public Sector Capacity Project (the ICR was recently
completed).Capacity constraintsFirst, capacity constraints in Mozambique
are severe even by African standards. The Bank should therefore guard
against overestimating borrower capacity to implement. Specifically,
project objectives should be clear, concrete and achievable in the short
term. Implementation arrangements should be simple. Objectives and
outputs should be practical. To this end, a participatory design of the
logical framework for the Public Sector Reform and the first phase of the
forthcoming project was adopted. With the help of two facilitators (a
World Bank consultant and a local consultant), working groups have been
formed around the key issues previously defined as priorities for the
reform agenda.   Groups, dealing with governance, decentralization, the
role of the state, policy processes, financial management and human
resources management, and composed of members of relevant sector
ministries or public institutions and the private sector worked together
towards the definition of key actions and practical performance
indicators.Long-term activitySecond, capacity building, especially when
there is so little capacity to start with, is inherently a long term
activity. The duration of a normal Bank project can serve to launch and
undertake a stage of the process. Capacity building projects should be
designed within a framework of long-term Bank commitment. This is the
reasons why this project chose the APL structure. Training of staff before
implementation stageThird, where implementation capacity is especially
scarce, projects should ensure that local staff have the necessary skills,
and that a dedicated personnel for the project are identified and
mobilized. Bank projects should consider developing the necessary
implementation skills during project preparation or through an initial
period devoted to training those responsible for the management of the
project. Selection of the Director of the UTRESP and his staff were done
according to these objectives, while the Administrator for the project,
already trained in financial management, received complementary training
in public procurement.Oversight bodyWhere reforms are multi-sectoral, no
- 8 -



single ministry will be able to lead the reform process; it is difficult
to exercise authority over equals. In this case, a legally established
committee of ministers has taken responsibility for the reforms, led by
the Prime Minister himself.Lessons from public sector reform in Africa
regionThe project design has drawn upon the Bank's own experience of
public service reform and capacity building. The paper, "Reforming Public
Institutions and Strengthening Governance," recommends five broad changes
in the Bank's approach. Each will be significantly addressed in this
program:Shift focus from the content of public policy to the way policy is
made and implemented. The second component of the program component will
do just this.Address a broad range of mechanisms that promote public
sector reform. The project covers the mutually supportive activities of
restructuring, incentives and accountability.    Emphasize good fit over
best practice. The Bank team worked closely with the GOM team; Over 50
Mozambican civil servants participated in the preparation of the logframe.
Enhance institutions through longer-term programmatic lending. A 10-year
APL is proposed for a program that focuses on capacity building.Develop
skills to do better institutional work. Above all else, the program is
setting out to develop skills to reform processes and institutions.The
program also addresses many of the challenges identified in the Africa
Region Annex to that report. There is strategic prioritization: the
program will begin by building capacity to manage change and reforming
pay. This will motivate staff to pay more attention to the achievement of
the results citizens and businesses need and expect. Fundamental reform to
the state structure will include focusing the core civil service on policy
formulation and monitoring and promoting the decentralization of service
delivery. The program will set out to link together sector reform
initiatives and thus avoid "stovepiping;" there is representation from the
key sectors in the Mozambican team preparing the project. There has been
close collaboration among Bank staff responsible for the preparation of
institutional reforms in the social and economic sectors and between
macroeconomic and public sector management specialists.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        NA
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Harry C. Garnett
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-8188
12.  For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
-9-



Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 16,2001
- 10 -



