Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23815-MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.4 MILLION
(US$25.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR RE FORM PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
February 13, 2003
Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Country Department 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2003)
Currency Unit = Meticais
US$1.0 = MZM 23,300
MZM 1 = US$0.000043
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACCRONYMS
APL           Adaptable Program Loan
AT            Administrative Tribunal
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CG            Consultative Group
CIRESP        Inter-ministerial Conrmission for the Reform of the Public Sector
CM            Council of Ministers
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPIA          Country Policy Institutional Assessment
CQ            Consultant's Qualifications
DANIDA        Danish Aid
DFID          Department for International Development
EGFE          General Statutes of Civil Servants
EU            European Union
FMR           Financial Monitoring Reports
FMS           Financial Management System
FMU           Financial Management Unit
GOM           Government of Mozambique
GOVNET        Government Network
GOVSYS        Electronic Documentation Center
GPM           Prime Minister's Office
GPN           General Procurement Notices
HIPC          Heavily-Indebted Poor Countries
HRM           Human Resources Management
IAPSO         Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UNDP
IAS           International Accounting Standards
IBRD          International Bank For Reconstruction and Development
IDA           International Development Agency
SISTAFE       Integrated Financial Management System
IGF           Government Audit Unit
LC            Least Cost Selection
M & E         Monitoring And Evaluation
MADER         Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MAE           Ministry of State Administration
MPF           Ministry of Planning and Finance
MINED         Ministry of Education



MS            Ministry of Health
MTC           Ministry of Transport and Commnunication
MTEF          Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NBER          National Bureau Of Economic Research
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
NORAD         Norwegian Aid
PARPA         Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
PER           Public Expenditure Review
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIF           Fundo de Melhoramento do Desempenho (Performance Improvement
Facility)
PS            Permanent Secretary
PPF           Project Preparation Fund
PR            Presidency
PRSC          Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits
QCBS          Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
RFP           Request for Proposals
SCR           Compensation and Remuneration System
SIDA          Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
SIFAP         Public Service Training System
SIP           Personnel Information System
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UTRAFE        Technical Unit for the Reform of the Administration of State Finances
UTRESP        Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector
Vice President   Callisto Madavo
Country Director   Darius Mans
Sector Manager   Brian Levy
Task Team Leader    Harry Gamett



MOZAMBIQUE
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program       Purpose and Project Development Objective .................................................1
1. Program    purpose and program phasing ............................................................1
2. Project development objective ............................................................2
3. Key performance indicators ............................................................2
B. Strategic Context ............................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project                     .   .  3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                        .      .      . 1
4. Program     description and performance triggers for subsequent grants                      .     .       11
C. Program      and Project Description Summary                       ....................................... 12
1. Project components ...........................................................                           12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .                  ....................................... 15
3. Benefits and target population ...........................................................1 5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...........................................................  16
D. Project Rationale ...........................................................                                20
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................ 20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies                     ... 22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ........................................................ 25
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership ...................................................... 27
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................    28
E. Summary Project Analysis ...........................................................                         28
1. Economic ...........................................................                                     28
2. Financial ...........................................................                                    28
3. Technical ...........................................................                                     28
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                 29
5. Environmental ...........................................................                                 30
6. Social ...........................................................                                        30
7. Safeguard Policies ...........................................................                            31
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................................................                         32
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                               32
2. Critical Risks ...........................................................                                32
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...........................................................                33
G. Main Grant Conditions ...........................................................                            33
1. Effectiveness Condition ...........................................................                      33
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................................................                     33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................................................                    34
Annex 1: Project Design Summary ...........................................................                  35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                         ........................................... 40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs ...........................................................                 48
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                           ........................................ 49
Annex 5: Financial Summary ...........................................................                       50
Annex 5a: Financial Management Assessment Report .                              .............................................. 51



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ............................................ 57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule .............................................. 64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File ..............................................             65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .................               ............................. 66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance ..............................................                      68
Annex 11: President Chissano's Speech on Public Sector Reform ..................           ........... 70
Annex 12: Letter of Sectoral Policy ..............................................                72
Annex 13: Performance Improvement Facility: An Outline ....................................... 78
Annex 14: CPAR 2002, Executive Summary ..............................................              84
Annex 15: Ministerial Restructuring .............................................. 92
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 29996



MOZAMBIQUE
Public Sector Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPR
Date: February 13, 2003               Team Leader: Harry C. Garnett
Country Director: Darius Mans         Sector Manager: Brian D. Levy
Project ID: P072080                   Sector(s): Central Government Administration
Lending Instrument: APL (Grant)       Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Estimated
AIPL      Indicative Financing Plan   Implementation Period lBank FY)   Recipient
IDA             Others     Total    Commitment     Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m      US$ m       Date         Date
APL 1        25.6    57%      19.4      45.0       2003         2006     Govt. of
Loan/                                                                Mozambique
G rant  _ _ _ _ __        _ _ _ _                          _ _ _ _ _
APL 2        30.0    42%      40.0      70.0        2006        2013     Govt. of
Loan/                                                                Mozambique
G rant  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __                     _ _ _ _ _ _
Total        55.6             59.4     115.0
[ ] Loan    [ l Credit   [X I Grant     [ Guarantee      [ 1 Other:
For Loans/Grants/Others:
Total Bank Financing (US$m): 25.6
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Grant
RECIPIENT                                   2.6            1.4             4.0
IDA                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ __12.6  13.0  25.6
Others                                     6.0            9.4             15.4
Total:                                    21.2           23.8             45.0
Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE
Responsible agency: GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE, UNIT FOR THE REFORM OF THE
PUBLIC SECTOR (UTRESP)
Address: Ave. Guerra Popular, 20-7, Predio CPD, Maputo
Contact Person: Adelino da Cruz, Director
Tel: 258-1-310620           Fax: 258-1-307674           Email: dacruz@zebra.uem.mz
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
Annual        5.8            9.5               7.4             2.8
Cumulative       5.8            15.3              22.8            25.6
Project implementation period: Phase 1: 3 years; Phase 2: 7 years
Expected effectiveness date: April 30, 2003  Expected closing date: June 30, 2006






A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing
The development objective of the ten-year program is:
To provide capacity building support to the Government of Mozambique's Action Plan for the
Reduction of Absolute Poverty (PARPA) by transforming the public service so that the poor
throughout Mozambique receive the services they need and the economy can afford, and
entrepreneurs throughout Mozambique are encouraged to invest.
The ten-year program will assist in bringing about a transformation of the public service so that
by the end of the program, poor as well as rich citizens in all parts of the country will have much
better access to public services and businesses will have to deal with less red tape as they invest
to provide the basis for sustainable economic growth.
Services will be provided by the citizen's own local governments, via partnerships between the
public and private sector, the private sector, and executive agencies, all accountable to citizens. It
will be a citizen's right rather than privilege to have access to services.
A much slimmer center of government will focus on formulating and monitoring policy. Public
resources will be allocated in accordance with the priority needs of citizens and businesses, but
also in ways that foster sustainable economic growth and social development.
The Bank's program is part of a larger multi-donor program that will support the Government of
Mozambique's Public Sector Reform Program, launched by the President in June, 2001. The
program as a whole will lay the foundations for greater donor reliance on budget support, in the
case of the Bank, through Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits (PRSC) planned for FY2004 and
beyond. By supporting the implementation recommendations of the 2001 Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), the 2001 Public Expenditure Review (PER) and the 2002
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), the program will help to make public
servants much more accountable to the public for the services they provide.
Public sector reform is defined as reform of the crosscutting issues, common to all sectors, such
as restructuring government for decentralized service delivery, accountability, wages, and human
resources management. Thus the public sector reform program will support improvements in
service delivery carried out by the sectors. Public sector reform also deals with fundamental
issues such as the role, structure and processes of government.
Phasing
There will be two phases to the program.
Phase 1. The basic conditions for the transformation will be established in the three-year first
phase (the project). In-country capacity for change management support will be developed to
help ministries improve service delivery. With support from the Performance Improvement
Facility, service delivery processes will be reengineered through the Quick Wins Program and
restructuring plans will be prepared in key ministries. Capacity will be developed to establish
effective linkages between PARPA, MTEF, and sector programs. A public sector accounting
profession will be established. Staff will be trained in the basics of expenditure management and
accounting. New systems of expenditure management and accountability will be introduced with
support from donors, in line with CFAA, PER, CPAR, and HPIC Assessment and Action Plan
1



recommendations agreed by the Government. Taken together, these improvements in
accountability will assist in reducing corruption. Salary incentives will be introduced to make it
easier to recruit, motivate and retain key staff. Support will continue for improved human
resources management, including decentralization of the function. There will be substantial
training capacity development during this phase.
Phase 2. On the basis of, and depending on, progress in phase 1, a process of restructuring,
reengineering, and decentralization, and monitoring and adjustment will take place in the second,
seven-year phase as the reforms in the processes and structures of government are rolled out
throughout the public sector with funding from the Performance Improvement Facility. The
integrated financial management system will become progressively fully operational in central
and local government resulting in a much stronger linkage being established between MTEF-
based budget allocations in line with PARPA targets and expenditure tracking. Local and central
government will develop the capacity to adhere to international accounting standards.
Accountability to citizens will improve as audit capacity is decentralized and more service
delivery functions devolved to local government. An increasing number of key staff will have
salaries that will be competitive with the private sector as more budgetary resources can be made
available from the budget.
2. Project development objective
(see Annex 1)
To support the Govemment to restructure the public service for decentralized service delivery,
professionalize the public service, and improve govemance.
3. Key performance indicators
(see Annex 1)
The ten-year program:
Access to basic services by the poor in rural areas is significantly improved. Data on this would
be collected via poverty assessments.
The three-year project:
*  At least six reengineering "quick wins" will have been implemented that will be
recognized by the Ministries' clients (through service delivery surveys) as improving the
quality of its services;
*  Three ministries will have begun to implement their plans to reengineer, restructure and
decentralize the delivery of services (implementation to mean: structures have been
revised and staffing changes made);
*  The regulations required to establish a professional accounting body will have been
approved by the Council of Ministers;
*  A process will have begun under which key technical and professional staff will have
their salaries increased in line with the Salary Reform Strategy and the restructuring plans
(the number to be impacted, and thus the exact indicator, will be determined during the
first year of the project in accordance with the Strategy, once it has been approved by the
Council of Ministers);
*  The new policy process by which policies are formulated and submitted to the Council of
Ministers, and which will link policy to resources and involve widespread consultation,
will have been designed and have begun to be implemented.



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 20521 MOZ       Date of latest CAS discussion: June 1, 2000
1.1. Country Assistance Strategy goals supported by the project:
The 2000 CAS for Mozambique has three pillars:
1)    increasing economic opportunities through private sector led growth;
2)    improving governance and citizen empowerment; and
3)    improving human capabilities.
This project mainly supports the second pillar. There is a strong focus on improving
accountability for the use of public resources, and involving citizens and businesses both in
policy formulation and in monitoring service delivery performance.
This project will also have an impact on the other two pillars of the CAS strategy. By making
government more responsive to business needs, it will promote private sector growth. (An
indicator covering this objective is one of the program indicators). Improved delivery of social
and economnic services will help citizens reach their full productive potential. In addition, the
project will provide substantial funding for training of those providing public services.
Mozambique has particularly weak public institutions and human resources. The project will
complement both a future Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC) and the Government's
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PARPA) on which it is based, since in essence the project is
providing the multi-sectoral capacity building support, through technical assistance and training,
needed to achieve the reforms required to reduce poverty. The proposed project will also support
the improvements in fiduciary responsibility that will be required to track the impacts of the
budgetary support given under a PRSC. It will provide funding for the sectors to re-structure in
preparation for the budget support under the forthcomning PRSC.
The project will also support the implementation selected recommendations of the 2001 CFAA
and PER, both of which highlight severe accountability problems. The 2002 CPAR identifies
serious procurement problems, which will also be addressed by the project. The Executive
Directors discussed the PRSP (IDA/SecM2001-0550) on September 25, 2001.
Rationale for the use of the IDA grant:
As an IDA-only country with a GNI per capita of less than $360 per annum, Mozambique has
been allocated IDA grants of SDR 19.8 million for FY03. The full amount is proposed to be
applied to the Mozambique Public Sector Reform Project. (An additional SDR 41.4 million in
IDA grants was allocated to Mozambique for HIV/AIDS and will be fully utilized to support an
upcoming HIV/AIDS project being developed under the framework of the Multi-country AIDS
Program.).
Of the three projects proposed in FY03 in the Mozambique program, this project was selected for
grant financing in the "other poor countries" category for the following five reasons:
3



* Strong human development impact. The proposed project will support restructuring in key
PARPA ministries, including health and education. The objective of this restructuring is to
decentralize the delivery of basic services to the poor. Thus this operation will help
Mozambique to accelerate progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) for human development.
* Centrality of public sector reform to all poverty-reducing activities. Mozambique's Public
Sector Reform program, which the proposed project would support, is central to
Mozambique's medium- and long-term development strategy and central to the Bank's CAS.
As donors continue to move towards higher levels of financing in the form of budget support
in Mozambique, an increasing percentage of poverty-reduction activities will be channeled
through the public sector. Improving the public sector's ability to deliver services in a cost-
effective manner will therefore have a multiplicative effect. By improving accountability,
rationalizing wages and human resource management, and modernizing the structure and
processes of government, the Public Sector Reform program will make a crucial contribution
to improved public service delivery and so to poverty reduction.
* Better collaboration between IDA and other donors supporting the Government's Public
Sector Reform Program. The use of an IDA grant to support the Government's Public Sector
Reform Program will facilitate closer collaboration between IDA and the other donors that
are supporting program implementation. Many donors have participated in the preparation
and appraisal of the project and have, together with the Bank, been funding the Government's
Public Sector Reform Secretariat (UTRESP). These donors are putting together a multi-
donor pool to support the Government program through UTRESP. Having the funds in the
same form will facilitate their management by UTRESP.
* Stronger public support. The use of grant resources will also help to secure popular support
for a reform program which is ambitious and which challenges vested interests, who might
tend to use the fact that the government has had to borrow to implement this poverty
reduction focused program to oppose its implementation.
*  The impact of the grant funds on poverty reduction will be monitored and evaluated. A
Monitoring and Evaluation Manager will be appointed to UTRESP prior to effectiveness.
That manager will not only be responsible for monitoring against the indicators in the logical
framework (such a system is already in place in UTRESP) but also for studying the relative
impact of a grant versus a credit. A baseline survey will be carried out by senior officials in
the key ministries' and other stakeholders' expectations as to the relative impacts, with a
follow up survey at the time of the midterm review.
Government preference. The Government has shown strong ownership of this program and has
explicitly requested grant financing for this project. It sees significant benefit in the popular
support for this program and seeks to boost the momentum for country-wide results.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Although Mozambique's policy performance has been good (the overall CPIA rating for 2000
was above the average for Africa), starting from a very low base following the civil war, there are
substantial concerns about the sustainability of that performance. The critical problems are as
follows:



*  quality of civil servants: civil servants in Mozambique are among the most poorly educated
in Africa, they are also poorly paid, technical and professional staff are particularly poorly
paid compared to their counterparts in the private sector and parastatals;
*  weak accountability: there is no accounting profession in Mozambique, and not a single
Mozambican qualified to international accounting standards; weak internal and external
auditing capacity hence weak oversight by the National Assembly and citizens; and almost
no follow-up on the implementation of policies;
*  complex service delivery processes: centralized, complicated and confusing.
2.1 Main sector issues
"We want a public sector that transmits efficiency... a new culture for the public service should
be developed as we advance toward a market system", the Prime Minister.
In this quotation, the Prime Minister admits that the public service is inefficient and not well
organized to support Mozambique's transformation from a centrally planned to a market
economy.
From its independence in 1975 to the mid-1980s, Mozambique followed a central planning
model. The civil war from the mid-1970s to the Peace accord in 1992 destroyed social and
economic infrastructure.
Market-oriented economic reforms in place since 1987 have reduced inflation and attracted
foreign investment. A new constitution was enacted in 1990. Since the signing of the peace
agreement in 1992, the country has successfully held two democratic elections. In this relatively
stable political environment, economic growth has been impressive, exceeding 10 percent on
average in the past few years.
However, the challenges of development remain daunting. The public sector is staffed with
poorly qualified, badly paid civil servants. Not surprisingly, corruption is a problem. A high
proportion, especially of the better educated, are based in Maputo. Many citizens do not receive
any public services at all. The rest suffer from very poor service delivery. Public servants, many
of whom are still directly involved in service delivery still treat the receipt of public service as a
privilege not a right.
Processes need profound restructuring. Over-regulation exemplifies the situation. A 1996 World
Bank study, "Mozambique, Administrative Barriers to Investment: the Red Tape Analysis",
describes the lengthy, unpredictable and highly complicated administrative processes for
investment, leading to significant costs at the outset and during the life of the business, leading to
lost output and employment. An outdated legal and regulatory framework, uncertainties of
changing legal rules, lack of transparency and poor training of public servants in the
implementation of the rules make life difficult for businesses as well as citizens. New research
confirms that the situation did not improve much since that study. Rated with 74 other countries
on the time and cost of entry of a start-up firm, Mozambique comes second to last (Djankov, La
Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes and Schleifer, NBER Working paper 7982, 2000).
The public sector is still very much functioning on the basis of a self-centered paradigm. Neither
the culture nor the practice of the executive branch of government being effectively accountable
to the legislative branch has taken root. Furthermore, the notion of accountability of the public
servant to the users and citizens is still relatively new, and participation of citizen groups or the
5



private sector in the oversight of public administration, as well as in information sharing, is still
poorly developed. This is also because civil society is still relatively poorly organized.
The issues discussed below are based upon the studies and workshops undertaken over the past 3
years. These are listed in Box 1.
Service delivery is sti1l highly centralized
The Mozambican State still functions in a paradigm of centralism and hierarchy. A process of
gradual deconcentration is ongoing but suffers under dual subordination to the center, through the
sector ministries and governors and provincial administrations. The traditional practice of treating
provincial services as extensions of central programs has done little to encourage the staffing of
local administration with well-qualified staff. Similarly, equipment and infrastructures are very
limited outside the capital, and working conditions generally very poor.
Following a constitutional change in 1996, 33 municipalities were created in 1997. However,
many of the enabling regulations that need to accompany the decentralization law remain to be
enacted. There is the potential for conflict between the municipalities and the deconcentrated
administrations of the sector ministries. This first step towards genuine decentralization (locally
based service delivery, with accountability to local citizens) needs to be accompanied by
structured policies of transfer of powers and resources, which obviously must be gradual, in view
of the extremely low capacities at the municipal level. In particular the capacity of municipalities
and the local office of ministries to manage finances is very weak. Although there is a widespread
appreciation that gradualism is required, there is no clear timetable for the reforms.
The move of key public sector functions down to different sub-national tiers of government must
occur in parallel with a change of the role of the center, from provider to facilitator. Functions of
state organizations at the center should be reoriented towards formulating, monitoring and
facilitating the implementation of policies.
To assist in the design of the project, a study on the administrative constraints to service delivery
was undertaken ("Note on Administrative Constraints to Service Delivery with a Focus on the
Sub-National Level"). This study compared the formal and informal service delivery systems in
key sectors, through interviews with Bank's team leaders in the key sectors and analysis of the
findings of the PER. It provides pointers for reforming key public sector rnanagement systems
(personnel, finance).
Civil servants lack the skills and incentives to serve citizens and businesses well
Despite continuing efforts to improve the educational level of its population, Mozambique is still
facing an acute shortage of higher-educated people. In 1999, total enrollment in higher education
was 11,600, but the total number of new higher education graduates in Mozambique was only
483 in 1998.
The result is that out of over 100,000 civil servants (excluding the armed forces), only about 3
percent have a degree, almost all of whom are based in Maputo. Furthermore, 52 per cent of
managers do not have the academic qualifications required for their jobs.
On the demand side poor working conditions and low pay levels compared to the "international
donor sector" and even to the private sector impede the public sector from attracting enough
skilled staff. Absence of a sound human resources management policy, and of links between
6



recruitment and promotion and perfornance are aggravated by the complexity of the rules and
lack of clarity of the mandates. A recent study has shown that only 13 per cent of civil servants
are appointed through a competitive process - family and party connections are more important.
Poor formal incentives are breeding ground for corruption. Very few channels of communication
exist between top civil servants and their staff and little knowledge of the rules contributes to
slow implementation and lack of individual initiative. Public institutions are assessed in terms of
following procedures correctly rather than in terms of performance against expected results.
Furthermore, as a result of the very recent democratization and of years of armed conflict, the
public sector tends to be somewhat politicized. Top civil servants and governors are appointed by
the leaders of the party in power more on the basis of their loyalty than their technical merit.
There is little accountability for the use of scarce resources
Despite some improvement in terms of a more transparent and comprehensive budgeting process,
several factors contribute to a relatively poor allocation and use of resources. These findings were
confirned by the 2001-2002 PER and CFAA:
* the functional classification is not sufficiently disaggregated, hindering the efforts to
efficiently measure and monitor the impact of public expenditures;
* the Inspectorate General of Finance (internal audit) and the National Administrative Tribunal
(external audit) lack trained and qualified staff as well as budgetary resources. There is no
value-for-money audit;
* the MTEF has not been formally institutionalized;
* the level of extra-budgetary flows leave important resources unaccounted for;
* neither parliament, civil society nor the private sector participates effectively in the planning,
budgeting and financial management process;
*  the legal framework for accountability is deficient inasmuch as public information about the
Government's performance is insufficient. The current framework does not require leaders to
declare their assets and liabilities, there is no freedom of access to information in place that
would provide for citizens to be better informed, there is no whistle-blower legislation in
place that would provide protection to citizens who report corrupt practice, and the rules of
evidence do not require leaders and other public officials to explain how they became
wealthy while in office.
Policy coordination, monitoring and evaluation are weak
Public policies are not formulated according to a standard format. Little effective analysis
precedes their submission to the Council of Ministers. The linkage between policy and resources
is weak. There is little coordination either at the center or in the provinces in the preparation and
implementation of policies, and there is virtually no monitoring of the implementation of policies
or evaluations of their impact.
7



Box 1
Analytical Underpinning for the Project
A number of preparatory activities have been undertaken by the Bank and the Government
over the past three years:
1. Review of Public Sector Reform in Mozambique, July, 1998, carried out by Bank staff in
collaboration with Government.
2. Reform of the Mozambican Public Sector:  Strategy and Actions, August, 1998,
Government of Mozambique - based upon above study.
3. Workshop on public sector reform issues, February, 2000: meeting of senior officials and
academics to identify administrative constraints and possible solutions.
4. Pay policy study, ongoing, 2000-2001: preparation of sustainable pay reform options and
design of medium term donor support scheme.
5. Policy process study, 2001: study of the process by which policy is formulated, decided
upon, implemented and monitored.
6. Workshops in 2001 to discuss reform issues with groups of stakeholders: permanent
secretaries, NGOs, religious groups, journalists, trade unions, donors, private sector, and
national directors. Each participant completed a questionnaire identifying key constraints.
7. Country Financial Accountability Assessment, 2002.
8. Public Expenditure Review, 2002.
9. PARPA.
10. Civil Service Management System: An Analysis of Reforms To Date and Emerging Next
Steps, Draft, July, 2001.
11. Politica Salarial a Medio Prazo, UTRESP, Draft, May, 2001.
12. Improving Expenditure Management in Mozambique, World Bank, July, 2001.
13. Administrative Constraints to Decentralized Service Delivery, World Bank, August, 2001.
14. Changing role of govermment and decentralization, UITRESP, Draft, December 2001.
15. Policy management study, UTRESP, Draft, October 2001.
16. Future studies: govemance baseline survey (households', businesses', and public servants'
experiences and perceptions of service delivery), salary survey (financed by the PPF).
8



HIEV/AIDS is having a growing adverse impact on public sector capacity
HIV/AIDS impacts public sector capacity in two ways, by increasing the demand for public
services in some sectors, while reducing the public sector capacity, since civil servants are
affected by the disease (lower productivity, high attrition environment). GoM has requested the
support from IDA in preparing a MAP project.
2.2 Government strategy
Issued in August 1998, the "Reform of the Mozambican Public Sector, Strategy and Actions"
(Republic of Mozambique), describes the different areas already undergoing reform, and the need
for articulating a strategy to move "in the direction of a new organizational culture for the public
sector, centered on efficacy and transparency", as well as the changes to be made to transform the
public sector, currently centered around the delivery of service, to being a "facilitator". This
document, presented at the 1998 CG meeting together with a public sector study jointly
undertaken by the World Bank and the GoM, provides the first, underpinning diagnosis for the
elaboration of the public sector reform strategy.
Reform actions of the past few years have focused on three main issues:
* the rationalization of human resources, through the establishment of a new Career and
Remuneration System, measures of salary decompression and the implementation of a
Human Resources Management System (computerized database), as well as the establishment
of a program of training for public servants (Public Service Training System, SIFAP) and a
State Administrative Inspectorate;
* institutional reform through measures towards deconcentration and decentralization (creation
of local governments, municipal elections);
* reform of the budget system, with the enactment of a new Budget Law (1997) and its
corresponding regulations, and enactment of a new Public Finance Law (2001).
Over the past year, following the 1999 elections, the President established the Inter-ministerial
Commission for the Reform of the Public Service (CIRESP), chaired by the Prime Minister. The
Council of Ministers then set up the Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Service
(UTRESP) to be a secretariat to CIRESP. CIRESP recently approved the reform strategy prepared
by UTRESP: Estrategia da Reforna do Sector Publico 2001-2011 (June 2001).
The strategy defines public sector reform as the cross and multi-sectoral reforms in processes and
institutions needed to support reforms in the separate sectors leading to improvements in the
delivery of services to all citizens and businesses.
The Council of Ministers has decided that the reform will cover all institutions financed directly
or indirectly by the State and will focus on restructuring the State so that public servants will
become more results-oriented.
The Strategy includes a Quick Wins Program, which consists of identification of measures that
could be successfully implemented in a relatively short period, and would be highly visible, partly
to build up support for the reform program. The CM has requested that all ministries prepare and
implement quick wins; The Prime Minister has taken responsibility for this program.
The GoM Strategy takes account of the GoM's poverty reduction objectives set forth in PARPA.
Good governance is described in PARPA as one of the fundamental conditions for poverty
9



reduction, improved public service delivery and sustainable economic growth. Stakeholders
consulted as part of the PARPA process stressed the need for good governance (and in particular
decentralization and deconcentration policies that favored participative development at the local
levels). They also highlighted the need for the State to improve its capacity to act energetically
on its policy and program choices, as well as the importance of fighting corruption and
establishing a more mutually supportive relationship between public institutions and citizens.
President Chissano launched the reform of the public sector, based upon this Strategy, on June
25th, 2001, National Day, in a speech to the nation. His speech is summarized in Annex 11. Key
points from the speech are shown in Box 2. He confirmed his commitment to public sector
reform in a speech to the National Assembly in April, 2002.
The Government Strategy has been published and widely disseminated. GoM has prepared an
Implementation Plan and has implemented a number of Quick Wins.
Box 2
Quotations from the President's Speech Launching the Public Sector Reform Program
National Day, June 25, 2001, Bagamoio barrio, Maputo
The public sector has generally operated with low levels of efficiency and has provided the citizens with low
levels of efficiency.
There is now a generalized trend for civil servants to demand illicit payments for providing the services that
are the job of the civil service.
Examples of corruption: The mother or father of a family who must "offer thanks" in order to enroll their
son at school. The patient who is only cared for if he gives the health worker "a little envelope" . . .the driver
who must buy a beer or "act like a man" to the police to avoid a fine.
The Government wants a public service that is flexible, decentralized, free of red tape, simplified,
modernized, competitive, and concerned with the results and quality of services provided to the citizens.
The public service must be transparent ... endowed with qualified, professional staff.
I want to see participatory mechanisms institutionalized which allow us to identify more securely the desires
and needs of citizens.
At the top of the list of reforms is the rationalization of procedures and the decentralization of administrative
structures and processes in order to make them more efficient and accessible to the citizens.
From 2001 to 2004 the basic conditions would be established for the profound transformation of the public
sector.
Up to 2011, programs with a much broader impact would be inplemented .... the public sector will be a
sector working for results and for citizens.
10



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The Bank's support will focus on five of the components of the GoM strategy: decentralization
and institutional restructuring, strengthening policy formulation and monitoring, the
professionalization of human resources, including pay reform, accounting and financial
management, and change management.
The phasing of the support is consistent with the Government's strategy, which will focus on
quick wins and the preparation of plans to implement the strategy over the coming year, and
establish the basic conditions for a longer reform program in its first, 3-year phase. The Bank will
share support with a number of other donors.
This project will support institutional reforms already underway in key sectors such as education,
health and transport, all supported by multi-donor programs by focusing on crosscutting issues
and, through the Performance Improvement Facility, providing the funding and incentives for
reform. Reform in the sectors will be managed by the sectors themselves, just as reform in the
Ministry of Finance and Planning, the Administrative Tribunal and the Secretariat to the
Assembly will be managed and implemented by those agencies themselves. The program and
project will provide leadership, coordination and monitoring and evaluation services, as well as
funding. The reform team will be in a position to deal with major issues since it is led by the
Prime Minister and his Inter-ministerial Commission, with a direct line to the Council of
Ministers.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent grants
Phase 1 will begin to address the basic structure of government and incentive issues. In doing so,
the project will seek to address the capacity issues identified in the GoM Public Sector Reform
Strategy. Systems will begin to be put in place to make sure that individuals and service delivery
units will be rewarded for performing well; and, if they do not perform well, they will be
disciplined. Process reengineering for improved service delivery will be undertaken as part of the
Quick Wins Program. Restructuring support, through the Performance Improvement Facility,
will be given to ministries that have already demonstrated a willingness to reform. The project
will also support the realignment of the center of government with a view to further
decentralization of service delivery functions in support of the Bank's Municipal Development
and Development Planning and Finance Projects. By helping to establish an accounting
profession and reforming procurement processes, the project will support improvements in
expenditure management and accountability funded by other donors.
The agreed performance triggers are:
*  At least six reengineering "quick wins" will have been implemented that will be
recognized by the Ministries' clients (through service delivery surveys) as improving the
quality of its services;
*  Three ministries will have begun to implement their plans to reengineer, restructure and
decentralize the delivery of services (implementation to mean: structures have been
revised and staffing changes made);
*  The legislation and regulations required to establish a professional accounting body will
have been presented to the National Assembly;
*  A process will have begun under which key technical and professional staff will have
their salaries increased in line with the Salary Reform Strategy and the restructuring plans
11



(the number to be impacted, and thus the exact indicator, will be determined during the
first year of the project in accordance with the Strategy, once it has been approved by the
Council of Ministers);
*  The new policy process by which policies are formulated and submitted to the Council of
Ministers, and which will link policy to resources and involve widespread consultation,
will have been designed and have begun to be implemented.
Phase 2 will continue to implement the restructuring, reengineering and decentralization and
associated capacity building, with support from the Performance Improvement Facility. The
Facility will provide incentives for reform - those who begin to reform will be rewarded with
additional funding for further reform. Wage reform will continue. As more resources become
available for wages, more staff will be moved towards salary levels prevailing in competitive
markets. More senior staff will be placed on performance contracts. There will be very careful
monitoring of the restructuring and decentralization experience. There will be unexpected
outcomes to which adjustments will have to be made. Progress with improved service delivery
will be monitored using the governance survey by comparing results with the baseline survey to
be undertaken this year.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
1.1   Restructuring
Objective: To begin a process of restructuring central government so that service delivery will
be improve through decentralization and rationalization ofprocedures.
Phase 1 will focus on supporting key ministries committed to reform to prepare plans to
decentralize, deconcentrate, and privatize the delivery of services and at the same time move
towards focusing the ministries on policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation. Some
ministries may be ready to implement the reforms before the end of the first phase. The
Government public sector reform and team and country team members have confurned the
readiness of a number of ministries for restructuring; the Prime Minister has asked that all
rninistries prepare restructuring plans. The implementation of the reforms, and the associated
capacity building, will be supported by the Fundo de Melhoramento do Desempenho
(Performance Improvement Facility, PIF), which will be designed and begin to be implemented
in Phase 1 (see Annex 13 for a description of how the fund will be operated). The Facility will
include an incentive structure that will reward ministries and agencies that are committed to
reform and meet their reform targets. The preparation of the plans, and the actual restructuring,
will be carried out by the ministries themselves. The project's role will be to define the process,
establish a change management team to support the ministries, train ministry staff in change
management and strategic planning, and monitor progress (see Annex 15 for a description of the
ministerial restructuring process).
The project will help the Council of Ministers to exercise its collective responsibility for poverty
reduction and the implementation of PARPA by improving the policy formulation, decision-
making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation process. The project will strengthen the
capacity of the Office of the Prime Minister - i.e. the managers of the policy process - through
adequate staffing, training and equipment and will build capacity to link policy and resources
more closely, especially through the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and the
12



Poverty Reduction Strategy Plan (PARPA), and monitor implementation. These activities will
also help to realign the center of govemment on policy and monitoring as service delivery is
progressively decentralized.
The project will also provide capacity building support for reorganizing district administration
and improving working conditions at the district level through the provision of training and
equipment.
Also, since it is important to be able to demonstrate progress while long-term structural changes
are planned and implemented, the project will provide funding support to the GoM Quick Wins
Program through the PIF. The quick wins will involve reengineering existing process to improve
the delivery of services.
Linkages will be established between restructuring and reengineering capacity building support
under this project and the sectoral reform targets set for the first PRSCs. The PIEF will in effect
provide funding to build the capacity of the sector ministries to prepare for the reforms the
implementation of which would be funded by the PRSC.
1.2    Professionalization
Objective: Motivate public servants to become more responsive to the needs of citizens
and businesses and increase professionalism.
There are immediate and long-term issues to be addressed. The leaders, managers, and key
technical and professional staff essential to prepare and implement the reforms needed under this
project and the sectoral reform programs have to have the incentives needed to become fully
committed to reform and to their roles in the reform programs. There is an immediate need to
enhance their conditions of employment to achieve this. There is also a medium term need to
reform the salaries in the public service to meet the needs of a restructured and reoriented public
sector: restructured for decentralized service delivery, and reoriented to service the public and
facilitate business development.
These basic medium term reforms of pay and conditions can only be executed alongside the
restructuring, since the restructuring will help to define which are the key positions that are below
market. In addition, some restructuring may be required to create the resources needed to pay the
higher salaries. The process of preparing the restructuring plans will trade off higher salaries
against other uses of funding to meet the redefined objectives of the ministries concemed. Since
the restructuring plans will be prepared during phase I and for the most part implemented in
phase 2, it will only be possible to implement the more basic, longer term pay reforms in phase 2.
Thus the project will fund capacity building for the preparation of a sustainable medium term pay
strategy, the design of a scheme to enhance the salaries of key staff in the short term, and the
associated implementation plans, as well as substantial training in the skills required for the
current and progressively reformed public service. It is assumed that the funding for the salary
enhancement will be funded by the budget. To underpin the strategy, studies will be undertaken
into both supply and demand aspects of the labor market of which the public sector is part. The
enhancement would begin during Phase 1 and the implementation of the strategy would take
place over a number of years, as resources became available, partly as a result of the
restructuring.
13



The mainstreaming of gender and HIV-AIDS programs as part of public sector reform will be
carried out with the support of other donors who are members of the Public Sector Reform Donor
Working Group and who participated in the appraisal.
Capacity building support will be given for the following:
* Support design and implementation of sustainable medium term pay strategy to establish
the priorities for raising the salaries of civil servants within the context of the revenue
expectations of government and the policy priorities established in MTEF (study is
nearing completion);
*  Prepare plans to introduce results oriented performance management for senior managers
and in key central coordination agencies;
* Reform Human Resources Management processes to improve responsiveness and
efficienicy, and to encourage the increasing professionalization of the public service,
including establishing equal opportunities for women.
1.3. Governance
Objective: Improve allocation, efficient use and accountability ofpublic resources.
The important reforms of expenditure management and accountability (referred to as the
SISTAFE reform in Mozambique) which are part of the Government's Public Sector Reform
Strategy and Implementation Plan, will be supported by the G10 group of donors, led by the IMF.
The project will support the governance agenda by helping to establish an accounting profession
for the first time in Mozambique, raising the policy profile of procurement reform, decentralizing
procurement capacity, and strengthening the oversight capacity of the National Assembly through
technical assistance and training for its Secretariat.
1.4 Program Coordination
Objective: Enhance UTRESP and CIRESP capacity to coordinate and monitor the reforms and
communicate with key stakeholders.
*  Build capacity of UTRESP to coordinate, administer, and monitor the Government's
Public Sector Reform Program, including those parts supported by other donors, through
training, advisory services and equipment.
* Build change management capacity at UTRESP and in ministries.
*  Establish Council of Advisors drawn from outside the public service.
3 Governance                               PFM      20.8 46/       11--     261
4. Program Coordination                   CSR        3.7   8/       3.2      70/
Total Project Cost                             I    45. 100%      256.     57%
1/ CSR= Civil Service Reform; PFM= Public Financial Management
Note: The figures in total may not add up due to rounding.
14



The non-Bank funding for Public Sector Reform consists of two multi-donor pools: one to
support the expenditure management reforms (to be implemented by the Ministry of Planning and
Finance), the other to support restructuring, govemance and human resources management
(implemented through UTRESP).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The objective of the project itself is to enhance institutional capacity to bring about institutional
reforms in service delivery through improvements in accountability and incentives. Many of the
policy objectives of these refomis have already been discussed by the Council of Ministers and
are reflected in the Public Sector Reform Strategy approved by the Council and launched by the
President. The theme of the reforms is to improve the delivery of services to the poor through a
gradual process of reengineering, restructuring and decentralization. Improving the accountability
of the public service to the public will facilitate that process. This will require the introduction of
improved systems of accountability and a determination by the GoM to respond positively to
information on the delivery of services to the poor generated by those systems. A substantial
commitment to the establishment of a public accounting profession in Mozambique will also be
required, including a major training program.
3. Benefits and target population
The benefits of the program include:
*  an improved quality of life for the Mozambican people through the cost-effective
provision of public services;
*  a reduction in poverty through better targeting of subsidies to the poor and the effective
implementation of public policies that will promote private sector development;
*  service delivery staff in ministries, agencies, local govemment and the private sector
motivated to perform well;
*  public servants who are accountable for their decisions and actions and promoted on the
basis of merit alone;
*  policy decision-making and service provision that is more transparent to the beneficiaries.
The people of Mozambique are the ultimate beneficiaries and target population, in particular the
poor, who have such weak access to public services.
15



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Leadership and Coordination
To provide political leadership for the reform process, the President and the Council of Ministers
established the Inter-ministerial Commission for the Reform of the Public Sector (CIRESP). The
Prime Minister is the president of CIRESP, and the Minister of State Administration is the vice-
president. Other members are the Ministers of Justice, Public Works and Habitation, Education,
Planning and Finances, Agriculture and Rural Development, Tourism, Industry and Trade, Labor
and Health. CIRESP reviews all proposals for reform prior to their submission to the Council of
Ministers (CM) and monitors the implementation of the reform program. The Technical Unit for
the Reform of the Public Sector (UTRESP) has been set up to support CIRESP.
Project implementation will be coordinated by UTRESP. CIRESP, whose President is the Prime
Minister, and which is responsible on behalf of the Government for the implementation of its
Public Sector Reform Strategy, will be accountable for achieving the project's overall objectives.
Oversight will be provided by the Council of Ministers. All IDA funds will flow through
UTRESP to the participating ministries and agencies. However, ministries and agencies will be
responsible for the implementation of their parts of the project, as identified in the
Implementation Plan for the GoM Public Sector Reform Strategy. There will be three flows of
funds to UTRESP: from IDA, a multi-donor pool, and the GoM. UTRESP has established a
Public Sector Reformn Donor Coordination Group, with which it works in the design of this
program and associated funding arrangements. This group will meet regularly throughout the
project. UTRESP will be responsible for all financial reports and for coordinating procurement.
Auditing will be carried out by a private accounting firm.
Responsibility for implementing the project - meeting its individual results - will lie with the
participating agencies themselves: the MPF, AT, Secretariat to the Assembly, MAE and the
sector ministries. They would draft TORs, prepare training plans, hire consultants, and acquire
equipment, but with technical and procurement support from UTRESP. UTRESP would discuss
problems with the agencies if they appear to lag in the implementation of their component, and if
necessary refer the matter to CIRESP.
UTRESP will have a particularly close relationship with UTRAFE , the Ministry of Planning and
Finance's coordination agency. UTRAFE is being supported by donors, including the Bank,
interested in supporting reforms in budget allocation and execution and expenditure tracking.
The Integrated Financial Management Information System (the introduction of which will be
supported by other donors in a separate project) is at the heart of these reforms. The policy
targets associated with these financial management reforms will become the benchmarks in
adjustment operations, as outlined in the PER.
UTRESP's staff include the Director, implementation coordinator, and specialists in financial
management and salary policy, governance, public administration, and restructuring. The
Director, financial management and public administration staff are in place. The rest will be
recruited by effectiveness. All are or will be Mozambicans. These specialists will provide
technical support to implementation agencies and will monitor the implementation and impact for
the GoM Public Sector Reform Strategy. The unit is also staffed by a financial management
specialist and a procurement specialist. Administrative support staff are already in place. Part-
time advisors are recruited according to the needs. The Director also has access to an advisory
panel of senior staff drawn from key ministries (Finance, Justice, Industry and Commerce and
State Administration). UTRESP has two intermittent international advisors. UTRESP also has a
16



journalist on staff who prepares press releases and is responsible for developing a cadre of
journalists who understand the challenges of public sector reform.
In summary, UTRESP will undertake the following tasks:
* prepare progress and other reports for CIRESP;
* provide opinions on policies, legislation and studies concerning public sector reform;
* collaborate in the management of the Performance Improvement Facility;
* collaborate in the management of the Training Fund;
* disseminate information on reform;
* monitor the reform process in the sectors;
* organize meetings with stakeholders;
* support and monitor the development and implementation of quick wins;
* facilitate access to technical assistance for the reforms in the sectors; and
*  maintain contact with and support the reform units in the Provinces.
Focal points have been established in all ministries. These are the Permanent Secretaries (PS)
who have worked with UTRESP in the preparation of the reform strategy and will assist in the
implementation of the reforms. A committee of key PSs meets with the Director/UTRESP each
month.
CIRESP meets with the Director of UTRESP about every two months. The Director is in almost
daily contact with the President of CIRESP, the Prime Minister.
17



Institutional arrangements
Council of Ministers (CM)
President
Inter-ministerial Commission for the Reform of the Public Sector
(CIRESP, Presidential Decree March 2000)
Prime Minister
Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector
(UTRESP, Council of Ministers Decree, April 2000)
Director
1
Procurement
Specialists     Fn     lUnit            Unit
Procurement Arrangements:
The Procurement Specialist at UTRESP will be responsible for ensuring that all procurement
actions particularly those which are funded from the proposed grant will be carried out in
accordance with procurement guidelines of the Bankc. The latter will report directly to Director of
UTRESP and will be primarily responsible for managing procurement actions and will act as a
focal person for all procurement related matters of the proposed operation. He will-also be
responsible for ensuring that all procurement activities funded by the IDA Grants are
implemented in accordance with Bank guidelines. Since a major portion of the proposed grant is
earmarked to fund consultant services, a draft procedures manual for the recruitment of
consultants has been prepared. Among other things, the procurement specialist will also carry out
the following activities: (a) prepare, review and implement the procurement plan; (b) prepare and
finalize needed procurement documents (i.e. draft RFP's, draft contracts, draft advertisements,
etc.); (c) train relevant staff on procurement matters; and (d) assist in the design of a procurement
records management system. A detailed procurement plan for the first year of project
implementation has been prepared with the assistance of the Bank during appraisal. The first year
detailed plan together with a five-year procurement plan will be presented to IDA prior to grant
effectiveness. It has also been agreed that in the event that the volume of procurement tasks
increases substantially and the need for additional support arises, UTRESP will consider the
possibility of recruiting additional procurement staff for the project.
18



Financial Management'
Under the supervision of the Director/UTRESP, the Financial Manager of UTRESP is responsible
for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the Public Sector Reform
Project will be acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other Cooperating Partners.
The principal objective of the Project's Financial Management System (FMS) will be to support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that
will serve the needs of the people of Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of
producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress towards the
achievement of its objectives.
For the Project to fully deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS will be developed in
accordance with the Financial Management Assessment Report presented in Annex 5a. Salient
features of the financial management arrangements include: (i) Retention of a Financial
Management Consultant to advise on the selection and installation of the Project's computerized
FMS, to prepare the Project's Financial Procedures Manual and to train staff in the operation of
the system; (ii) appropriate financial management staff in place (i.e. Financial Manager, Project
Accountant, Procurement Specialist and support staff); (iii) capacity building; (iv) the budget will
be approved in line with the Govermment process; (iv) the establishment of a Fixed Assets
Register and a Contracts Register; (v) monthly bank reconciliations, monthly Status of Funds
Report and monthly reporting to the MPF; (vi) timely production of quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs); (vii) robust banking and cash flow management including variance
analysis; (viii) Project activities will be periodically reviewed by the Audit Unit (IGF) at the
MPF; (ix) Project Financial Statements will be prepared in compliance with Intemational
Accounting Standards; (x) an annual extemal audit will be undertaken on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
By grant effectiveness, the Project will not be ready for report-based disbursements. Thus, at the
initial stage, transaction-based disbursement procedures (as described in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook) will be followed i.e. direct payment, reimbursement and special
commitments. When project implementation begins, the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) produced by the project will be reviewed. When the reports are considered adequate and
produced on a timely basis, and the recipient requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a
review will be undertaken by the Task Team to determine if the project is eligible.
Supervision activities will include: review of quarterly FMRs; review of annual audit reports and
management letter as well as timely follow up of issues arising; annual SOE review; participating
in project supervision missions as appropriate; and updating the financial management rating in
the Project Status Report (PSR).
The overall conclusion of the financial management assessment is that, provided the conditions
outlined in Section G are met by UTRESP prior to grant effectiveness, the Bank's financial
management requirements will be met.
'Please refer to the detailed Financial Management Assessment Report that was prepared jointly by the
Financial Manager of UTRESP and FMSs from the World Bank (February 14, 2002).
19



Monitoring and Evaluation
External evaluations of the program will be carried out mid-way through and towards the
conclusion of phase 1. However, these reviews do not substitute for sound project management
practices, which require constant monitoring of program activities and regular evaluation of their
impact. While financial and procurement audits are certainly key aspects of program monitoring
and evaluation, equally important are assessment of the efficacy of program management systems
and the impacts, planned and unplanned, of program activities - particularly in relation to the
achievement of program targets. This means that systems must be in place that enable the
collection of data, the compilation and analysis of disparate forms of information, and the
development of conclusions and recommendations to inform future project action. To that effect,
a project database has been prepared by UTRESP with support from a consultant funded by
DANIDA. The database is based upon the Government's PSR Implementation Plan and includes
information on components, results to be achieved, indicators, inputs, source of funding,
schedule, and GoM responsibility.
Monitoring and evaluation activities are the responsibility of the Director/UTRESP and the UTRESP
team as a whole. Each member of the team will be involved in one aspect of M &E or another
(generating, analyzing, or making decisions based on monitoring data). The information produced
through the program's monitoring and evaluation initiatives will provide important input into the
external evaluations and reviews conducted periodically throughout the life of the program.
The periodic Governance and Corruption Surveys, which include data on service delivery, will
provide a basis for monitoring improvements. The baseline survey will take place in 2002. This
survey covers perceptions and experience of civil servants, households and business people.
The program design also recognizes that monitoring and evaluation is a critical and ongoing
function of central government itself. Ministries must be able to track key trends in the sectors
for which they are responsible and to use monitoring information to identify the need for action.
For that reason, a major activity is planned to develop a monitoring system under the
restructuring component (component 1). Systems will be developed and piloted that will help get
critical information into the hands of policy makers when it is needed. To support this, training in
monitoring and evaluation techniques and in the new M & E system will be provided to targeted
individuals in the civil service.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The preferred option is Adaptable Program Lending (APL). The APL encourages sustained
institution building, which is consistent with the aims of the program. GoM found the long-term
commitment on the part of GoM itself and its cooperating partners to the transformation of the
public service through APL very appealing. GoM also believes that the triggers associated with
APL provide good incentives to implement the required reforms.
A Technical Assistance Project was considered. Technical Assistance Projects tend to be for a
shorter period than what will be required to achieve the overall objectives of the project, given its
focus on behavioral change. Moreover, Technical Assistance Projects lack the flexibility that will
be required to support the reform of the public service.
20



The range and scope of the project were given substantial consideration during the initial
preparation. Although public sector reform is by its very nature broad in impact and implication,
it was decided to focus the project in its first, three-year phase on accountability, salary reform,
and preparing for decentralization of service delivery. Reforms in these areas are the necessary
-conditions for the success of a longer-term program of improving the efficiency and effectiveness
of the public service.
Therefore, the scope of the first phase of the project was cut back during the initial preparation.
The number of ministries to pilot the restructuring was reduced. It is anticipated that the salary
reform will be very incremental, given human resources management as well as budgetary
constraints. Even the accountability program was cut back in the light of the capacity of the
government and other agencies of accountability to implement the reforms.
As the preparation proceeded, and the Country Team began to talk in terms of an early PRSC as
the principal means of providing support to the Government, the project became increasingly
focused on what needs to be done to establish the essential fiduciary conditions for an effective
PRSC; in other words, what needs to be done for the Government to build its capacity to manage
the funds to achieve the poverty alleviation objectives of the Government and the Bank, and for
there to be adequate accountability for the users of the budgetary support. Thus a strong
overarching focus of the Government's program became the improvement of expenditure
management. Since a group of donors known as the GI0 agreed to fund all the expenditure
management reforms under the leadership of the IMF, it was not necessary to provide support for
this part of the Government's program from the Bank project. A number of donors who are
members of the GIO, including its chair,and the IMg participated in the appraisal of this project.
Even this focused program reform raises substantial management challenges. The implementation
arrangements discussed above attempt to balance decentralized day-to-day management by sub-
component managers, based in the institutions with principal responsibility for that component,
with strong coordination and monitoring by UTRESP.
One issue with APLs is deciding what to do if the triggers are not achieved. This has been the
case with a number of public sector reform APLs. Even when the language in the PAD has been
strong the tendency has been to proceed to the second phase, perhaps with a delay of some
months or a year and a softening of the triggers. In some instances triggers are being treated as
"floating." Since APLs represent a long-term commitment by the Bank and other donors to
supporting a major transformation of the public sector, it is reasonable to have a fairly "realistic"
attitude to triggers. On the other hand motivation diminishes if they are not treated seriously. The
approach in this project is to have a few, realistic, demanding but not over-ambitious triggers.
The second APL issue concems the number of phases. Most APLs have three or four phases. It
is the view of the project team that there should, at this stage, be two. This is linked to the clear
need for "adaptability." Every public sector reform program in the developed and developing
worlds has made major adjustments en route. The directions taken by the reforms have invariably
not been those predicted when the reforms began. The objective has been clear, although
sometimes that has been adjusted, too, but the path to the achievement of the objective has not
been as obvious. GoM has a clear development objective for the ten-year period, but no one can
be sure how precisely to get there. The first basic building block phase is clear; what exactly
should happen next is not: hence a clear first phase and a less clear second phase. It is very likely
that as phase one proceeds subsequent phasing and content will become clearer. The Mid-term
Evaluation will provide an opportunity to clarify the way ahead.
21



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                  (PSR) Ratings
_ (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed:                                              Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Technical assistance to strengthen  Capacity-Building: Public Sector  S        S
legal institutions and build legal  and Legal Institutions
capacity; assistance to MAE to  Development Project, Cr. 2437
formulate and implement civil  (Completed)
service reform policies, improve
public sector personnel
management, and build
administrative capacity within the
ministry and its provincial offices.
Technical assistance for municipal  Local Government Reform and  S             S
government policy and capacity  Engineering (PROL), Cr. 2530
building in three areas: legal,  (Completed)
financial and administrative, and
technical.
Strengthening of the capacity of  Municipal Development Project
municipal governments in the areas  (MDP)
of management, finance, and the
provision of infrastructure services.
Assisting the Government in the
operation of legal, institutional, and
fiscal frameworks. Providing
training to municipal officials and
staff. Pilot of a municipal grants
mechanism, laying the foundation
for an inter-governmental fiscal
system.
Further developing and extension of Decentralized Planning and
a decentralized system for planning Finance Project (DPPF).
and managing public investments  (in preparation)
through community participation in
a wide number of Districts in two or
more Provinces and assistance to
Ministries of Planning and Finance
and State Administration to develop
legal framework and procedures for
decentralization.
Includes component on institutional Agricultural Sector Public   S             S
development (analysis of the   Expenditure Program
structure of the Ministry of   (PROAGRI)
22



Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP),
its decision-making, and
restructuring, including assessment
of its human resources and
strengthening of MAP, at both the
central and provincial levels.
Includes component on          Education Sector Strategic         S             S
strengthening the institutional  Project (ESSP)
capacity of the education ministry in
organizational structure, policy and
planning, financial management,
and monitoring and evaluation.
Including improvement of sector  Health Sector Recovery Program   S             S
institutions, support services and  (MHS)
sub-national health management
systems and development of human
resources capacity.
Other development agencies2
DANIDA                          *  Support to the judicial sector
* Support to the Assembly of
the Republic
*  Support to Tax reform
* Support to SISTAFE
* Support to Poverty
Monitoring Unit in MPF
* Support to Justice Sector
Strategic Planning
DFID                            *  Support to customs reform
* Support to MPF and
UTRAFE
European Commission             *  Support to Justice Sector
* Support to Finance Sector
* Poverty reduction budget
support! Support to Treasury
reform
Frederick Ebert Foundation      *  Support to Parliamentary
Commissions
* Improving participation of
local communities in local
level decision-making
IMF                             *  Support to improved
financial management
*  Support to tax reform
2A fuller documentation of other donor projects is being carried by the Donor Working Group in Public
Sector Reform. In addition, a group of donors known as the GI 0, are plaining to support the introduction
of the SISTAFE reforms.
23



IRISH AID                      *  Macro budgetary support
* Support to Public Sector
Strategy preparation (via
UNDP)
* Capacity building for reform
at provincial level (Niassa
and Inbambane)
Netherlands Embassy            *  Support to MPF
* Support to the National
Directorate of Water Affairs
NORAD                             Capacity building for
decentralized planning (Cabo
Delgado)
Norwegian Embassy              *  Support to the continuation
of the UNDP "SIFAP project
* Support to reform of
financial management in the
public sector
Portuguese Cooperation         *  Institutional Partnership for
Modern Administration
* Technical Cooperation for
Strengthening Institutional
Capacity for Public
Financing
*   Suppoit to judiciary          _
SIDA                           *  Capacity building of the
Administrative Tribunal
*  Support to the modemization
and decentralization of
public administration (MAE)
* Capacity building of the
public accountability system         _
Swiss Development Cooperation *   Support to decentralization
and municipalities
* Supporl. to fiscal reform in
MPF
UNDP                          *  District Planning and
Finance Project (UNCDF,
Nampula)
* Preparatory assistance for
support to decentralization
and deconcentration process
in the public administration
* Support to the Parliament
* Support to SIFAP
* Justice sector project
* Global program for
accountability and
transparency
24



* Support to PROAGRI
* Decentralized planning
(component in support to
MPF central level)
USAID                          *   Support to MIC
*  Support to Labor
Consultative Commission
and Enterprise Owners'
Association
* Support to Customs
reform
* Support to PROAGRI
* Support to the Policy Unit in
MTC
* Support to Parliamentarians
(Sunny Project)
* Legislative strengthening
* Greater Accountability and
Transparency Imitative
* Alternative Dispute
Resolution
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory); U (Unsatisfactory); HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
} Sector & Themes x KM
Lessons from Mozambique projects
Several lessons have been learned from the Capacity Building: Public Sector and Legal
Institution Development Project.
Capacity constraints
First, capacity constraints in Mozambique are severe even by African standards. The Bank
should therefore guard against overestimating recipient capacity to implement. Specifically,
project objectives should be clear, concrete and achievable in the short term. Implementation
arrangements should be simple. Objectives and outputs should be practical. To this end, a
participatory design of the logical framework for the Public Sector Reform and the first phase of
the forthcoming project was adopted. With the help of two facilitators (a World Bank consultant
and a local consultant), working groups have been formed around the key issues previously
defined as priorities for the reform agenda. Groups, dealing with governance, decentralization,
the role of the state, policy processes, financial management and human resources management,
and composed of members of relevant sector ministries or public institutions and the private
sector worked together towards the definition of key actions and practical performance indicators.
25



Long-term activity
Second, capacity building, especially when there is so little capacity to start. with, is inherently a
long-term activity. The duration of a normal Bank project can serve to launch and undertake a
stage of the process. Capacity building projects should be designed within a framework of long-
term Bank commitrnent. This is one of the main reasons why this project chose the APL structure.
Training of staff before the implementation stage
Third, where implementation capacity is especially scarce, projects should ensure that local staff
has the necessary skills, and that dedicated persoinel for the project are identified and mobilized.
Bank projects should consider developing the necessary implementation skills during project
preparation or through an initial period devoted to training those responsible for the management
of the project. Selection of the Director of the UTRESP and his staff were done according to these
objectives, while the Administrator for the project, already trained in financial management,
received complementary training in public procurement.
Oversight body
Fourth, where reforms are multi-sectoral, no single ministry will be able to lead the reform
process; it is difficult to exercise authority over equals. In this case, a legally established
committee of ministers has taken responsibility for the reforms, led by the Prime Minister
himself.
Lessons from public sector reform in the Africa region
The project design has drawn upon the Bank's own experience of public service reform and
capacity building. The paper "Reforming Public Institutions and Strengthening Governance,"
recormmends five broad changes in the Bank's approach. Each will be significantly addressed in
this program:
*  Shift focus from the content of public policy-to the way policy is made and implemented.
One sub-component of the program will do just this;
*  Address a broad range of mechanisms that promote public sector reform. The project
covers the mutually supportive activities of restructuring, incentives and accountability;
*  Emphasize good fit over best practice. The Bank team worked closely with the GOM
team; Over 50 Mozambican civil servants participated in the preparation of the logical
frarnework;
*  Enhance institutions through longer-term programmatic lending. A 10-year APL is
proposed for a program that focuses on capacity building;
*  Develop skills to do better institutional work. Above all else, the program is setting out to
develop skills to reform processes and institutions.
The program also addresses many of the challenges identified in the Africa Region Annex to that
report. There is strategic prioritization: the program will begin by building capacity to manage
change and by reforming pay. This will motivate staff to pay more attention to the achievement of
the results citizens and businesses need and expect. Fundamental reform to the state structure will
include focusing the core civil service on policy formulation and monitoring, and promoting the
decentralization of service delivery. The program will set out to link sector reform initiatives and
thus avoid "stove-piping;" there is representation from the key sectors in the Mozambican team
26



preparing the project. There has been close collaboration among Bank staff responsible for the
preparation of institutional reforms in the social and economic sectors and between
macroeconomic and public sector management specialists.
The project also draws upon the lessons learned from the first PRSCs. First of all, it is important
for basic expenditure management and governance capacity to be in place prior to increasing the
incidence of donor support in the form of budget support. This project will begin to put that
capacity in place. Secondly, it is important to link policy reform for poverty alleviation to
capacity building on an on-going basis. Governments have to develop their own capacity to
prepare the very reforms in the sector and coordination ministries that will form the policy targets
in the series of PRSCs. The project's Performance Improvement Facility will provide the means
for this. Thirdly, it is even more important to have strong donor coordination in the era of
PRSCs. The donors supporting this program, and hence the PRSC, have worked together closely
in the preparation of this project, and some have agreed to pool their funding for public sector
reform.
A final lesson concerns the need for close coordination not only among members of the Bank's
country team in the preparation of the project but also with other donors. Many members of the
country team were consulted during the preparation since one of the objectives of a project such
as this is to provide support to sector programs in key matters beyond their control, such as pay
reform and improved expenditure management and accountability, as well as redefining the role
of central government as sector programs are decentralized. Other donors' program are impacted
in the same way: there is a Donor Public Sector Reform Working Group chaired by the
Director/UTRESP and coordinated by DFII).
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
Early in the life of the new govermment, the President established by decree the Inter-ministerial
Commission for the Reform of the Public Sector (CIRESP) chaired by the Prime Minister. The
Council of Ministers then resolved to set up the Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public
Sector (UTRESP), which has subsequently been provided with its own budget. The
Director/UTRESP reports directly to the Prime Minister. The vice-president of CIRESP, the
Minister of State Administration, has personally participated in all the stakeholder workshops.
The action plan prepared by UTRESP and the outline of the strategy have both been presented to
and approved by CIRESP and the Council of Ministers. The President officially launched the
Strategy for the Reform of the Public Sector on National Day, 2001.
Senior civil servants have been involved in the preparation of the strategy and the reform process.
Many participated in the February, 2000 workshop that defined the issues to be addressed. Over
forty participated in the preparation of the logical framework in February, 2001.
Commitment can only come with understanding. All ministers, permanent secretaries and
national directors have taken part in a training program to prepare them for their jobs leading and
managing the public service. Funding was provided from a trust fund adrninistered by the Bank.
Senior civil servants participated in a specially designed two-week training program on civil
service reform in Mozambique.
Ownership has been broadened by taking the program to key stakeholders. All stakeholder
meetings have been covered by the press (there was one forjournalists). There was recently a 30-
minute television program on the public sector reform program.
27



The interactions between UTRESP and the donor cormmunity have also demonstrated ownership
in the sense that plans have been announced to the donors that can be the basis for the donors to
hold the government accountable. UTRESP has set up a core group of donors with which it
discusses the emerging strategy and plans. The group consists of UTNDP, Britain, Denmark,
Ireland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy, Portugal, EC, Norway, Switzerland, United States and
the Bank. Britain, Ireland, UNDP, and Denmark are also currently funding UTRESP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
*  Past involvement in the sector: Through a capacity building project and an IDF grant, the
Bank team has already developed a close working relationship with the implementation
agency for the public sector reform, the UTRESP.
*  Technical leadership on Public Sector Reform: The Bank has provided technical
assistance to UTRESP, and is a member of the donor working group on public sector
reform. Many of the studies that provide the analytical underpinnings for the
Government's program and the project have been funded and received technical input
from the Bank. These include the PER, CFAA and CPAR.
* Capacity and knowledge: the Bank has the required experience in the sector, as well as
the capacity and instruments to put in place a large-scale and long-term project.
E. Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic
(see Annex 4)
The project will have a positive economic impact through improving economic management and
the services provided to the businesses important for economic growth. Improved expenditure
management should help to reduce the fiscal deficit and make the flows of resources to key
development programs more predictable.
2. Financial
(see Annex 4 and Annex 5)
A key theme of the project is the cost-effective provision of high-priority public services.
Improved and more efficient delivery of public services, as well as the closing of low-priority
activities should improve the overall financial position of government. Furthermore, improved
financial control and accountability will ensure better value for money, improved service
delivery, and less waste, theft and corruption. The budgetary impact of the public sector reform
is also being addressed during project preparation with the active involvement of the Ministry of
Planning and Finance.
3. Technical
The Mozambique PSR utilizes lessons learned in other reform programs. The general strategy
consists of a specific Mozambican approach, incorporating on a pragmatic basis some of the
trends seen in other parts of the world, such as an emphasis on performance management, greater
professionalization of the workforce, and a focus on enhancing transparency and reducing
corruption across the public service.
28



4. Institutional
4.1 Executing agencies:
See Section C.4
4.2 Project management:
Effective project management is essential to assure the achievement of project inputs, outputs and
impact, as well as providing financial accountability with due diligence, and to conduct
transparent procurement procedures in the award of contracts. The institutional arrangements for
managing the project and for ensuring the sustainability of results build upon experiences gained
from similar project in other countries and from earlier stages of reform. The key executing
agencies have been fully involved in the design of the current reform program and will participate
in execution and management through the Council of Ministers, the Inter-ministerial Committee
for the Reform of the Public Sector (CIRESP, a committee of the Council of Ministers), and
through a committee of the task managers for each of the departments/agencies involved in the
project. Project management will be coordinated by the Technical Unit for the Reform of the
Public Service, which will report to CIRESP, which is chaired by the Prime Minister; the
Minister of State Administration is the vice-chairman.
4.3 Procurement:
An initial review of UTRESP's procurement management arrangements of the proposed project
has been carried out. A full-time Procurement Specialist with World Bank procurement
experience has been recruited.
Based on the initial review, the mission believed that the procurement capacity of UTRESP is not
a major issue. For example, funds under the PHRD Grant were disbursed almost completely and
in a very timely manner. UTRESP is fully equipped with sufficient office equipment and is
staffed with very competent and qualified personnel such as a Project Advisor, Project
Accountant, Administrative Officer and a good number of support personnel. It has also already
prepared and completed a detailed financing plan which was use as the basis for the procurement
plan. The latter was prepared with the assistance of a consultant and was completed, presented
and cleared by IDA prior to negotiations.
4.4 Financial management:
Although the country fiduciary risk is assessed as high (CFAA Report, December 2001), the
Project Risk is considered moderate as the following measures will be taken from the Project's
inception to establish a strong control environment and to mitigate financial management risks:
(i) a Financial Management Consultant (FMC) was retained and advised on the selection and
installation of the FMS; (ii) the Financial Procedures Manual has been prepared and the FMC will
train staff in the operation of the financial management system; (iii) The budget will be approved
in line with the Government process; (iv) Financial Manager and support staff appointed; (v)
Monthly bank reconciliations will be prepared and independently approved; (vi) Quarterly Cash
Flow Management and quarterly FMRs; variances will be examined and remedial action will be
taken in a timely manner; (vii) Fixed Assets and Contracts Registers will be established and
regularly updated; (viii) Project Financial Statements will be prepared in compliance with
International Accounting Standards; (ix) Project activities will be periodically reviewed by the
IGF; (x) Regular Bank supervision missions, including SOE reviews and timely follow-up of
29



management letter issues; (xi) An annual external audit will be undertaken on TORs acceptable to
the Bank by relevantly qualified and experienced auditors. IFAC Auditing Standards will be
followed and audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the year-end.
However, care must be exercised in ensuring the timely availability of Counterpart Funds. In
conclusion, provided the financial management arrangements summarized in Annex 5a3 are
satisfactorily addressed in practice, the Project financial management risk is assessed as being
moderate. The challenge for Project Management will be to convert from the "drawing board" to
practice.
5. Environmental
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
N.A.
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment
emerging from this analysis.
N.A.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N.A.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N.A.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N.A.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
the enviromnent? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EM1'?
N.A.
6. Social
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The positive impact of improved service delivery, and savings from increased effectiveness and
efficiency, should be felt nationwide. Government has involved civil society organizations and
the private sector throughout Mozambique in the discussion of its public sector reform strategy.
These same groups will also be involved in monitoring the project's success. Retrenchment is
less of an issue in Mozambique's reforn program than in many countries since the public service
is relatively small. The problem is poor quality staff rather than too many.
3The detailed Financial Management Assessment Report was prepared jointly by the Financial Manager of
UTRESP and FMSs from the World Bank (February 14, 2002) and is available on the Project file.
30



6.2 How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Stakeholder workshops have been held with ministers, officials, trade unions, journalists,
religious groups, businesses, youth groups, provinces, NGOs, donors, political parties and the
National Assembly. See D4.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See 6.2. Also an advisory committee will be appointed with representation from outside as well
as inside government (ex-ministers, academics, civil society leaders and some prominent private
sector managers).
See D4.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Widespread publicity about the GOM Strategy and the project, and continuing consultations with
intended beneficiaries. See D4.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project main objective is to improve service delivery. Another key aspect of the project is to
open up the Mozambican administration to allow citizens to be better informed, and to make the
administration more responsive to citizen's needs through increased participation. Several
instruments needed to monitor performance in social development will be established by the
project (guidelines for conducting client surveys of service delivery by local and central organs).
Mechanisms will also be established to inform citizens (regulations on public information
dissemination, website) and to listen to their demands (complaint mechanisms, hotlines, etc.)
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                        No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                         No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                           No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                               No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                   No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)        No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*             No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
NA
31



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Sustainability will depend upon:
*  political leadership: the President, Prime Minister and Council of Minister support the
reforms;
*  firm local ownership: the project is based upon the GOM  reform  strategy and
Implementation Plan;
*  systematic participation of stakeholders: there is an ongoing series of stakeholder
consultations, and an Advisory Committee will be established;
*  clearly defined change management bodies at all levels (mainstreamiing reform): change
managers are senior staff in the ministries;
*  adherence to work plan: targets have been widely publicized;
*  capacity to maintain long-term vision while achieving immediate objectives: GOM and
project have a 10 year vision, as well as a Quick Wins Program;
*  a judicial sector with the capacity to support the public sector in its role as a regulator and
guarantee fair treatment for citizens and businesses: other donors supporting reforms in
judicial sector.
2. Critical Risks
(reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Rislk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
GoM remains committed to reform            M         Continue dialogue with political leadership
GoM continues to involve all key           N         Frequent interaction with stakeholders
stakeholders in reform process
Capacity to lead the reforms is developed  M         Training for management team; early salary
and retained                                         reform
GoM leadership of reform process fully     M         Continue dialogue with interministerial
in place                                             committee
GoM prepared to make tough salary          S         Wages study will lay out options, costs,
choices                                              benefits
From Components to Outputs
Timely availability of counterpart funds   M         Dialogue with interministerial commission of
which Minister of Finance is member
Adequate UTRESP procurement and            M         Bank to train UTRESP staff
financial management capacity
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating H (High Risk); S (Substantial Risk); M (Modest Risk); N (Negligible or Low Risk).
The CFAA Report for Mozambique (December 2001) assessed the risk of waste, diversion and
misuse of funds in the country as high. However, this inherent risk is mitigated in UTRESP by
ensuring that the robust financial management arrangements, outlined in Annex 5a, will be in
place by grant effectiveness.
32



3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The salary reform supported by the project will be controversial, since it is likely to focus the
greatest increases at the top of the salary scale. The GOM, through CIRESP, has already agreed
to this policy in principle. The restructuring will result in re-assignments and possibly some
losses of jobs. The introduction of performance management will introduce a system of rewards
and discipline that most will find unfamiliar and some may resist.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
General conditions:
* Project Implementation Manual (Financial Procedures Manual, Procurement Plans,
Procurement Procedures Manual) acceptable to IDA prepared and adopted;
* TORs for first half-year's activities/inputs prepared;
* UTRESP fully staffed (appointment of an implementation coordinator, a monitoring and
evaluation specialist, a restructuring specialist, a governance specialist, a quick wins
specialist and a salary reform specialist, all with experience and terms of reference
acceptable to the Association).
Financial Management Conditions:
* FMS (Financial Management System) satisfactory to the Association installed and
capable of producing FMR (Financial Monitoring Reports);
* Financial Monitoring Report formats agreed;
* Project Accounts opened;
* Relevantly qualified external auditor appointed on approved terms of reference.
Financial Covenants
There are no special requirements.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ]    l.a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation.
[ x ] L.b) Not applicable.
[x]    2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[x]    3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ ]  4) The following items are lacking and are discussed under grant conditions (Section G):
33



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ]   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]    2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The
project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Hay                              BrianD.
Team Leader, AFTPR               S          ager, AFTPR           Co      Director, AFC02
34



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
Hierarchy of Objectives  Key Performance Indicators    Data Collection       Critical
Strategy        Assumptions
Sector-related CAS         Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country   (from Goal to
Goal:                                              reports:       Bank Mission)
Increasing economic     *  Poverty headcount reduced
opportunities.             to 60% by 2006.
Improving Govemance     *  New public accounting
and empowerment.           system implemented by
2006.
Improving human         *  90% health posts staffed
capabilities.              with trained personnel by
2006.
*  55% grade 10 students pass
exams by 2006.
Program Purpose:       End-of-Program Indicators:   Program reports:      (from Purpose
to Goal)
To transform the public  *  Access to basic health and  *  Poverty assessments *  GoM
sector so that the poor    education services;                               remains
throughout Mozambique      significantly improved by  *  Service delivery     committed
receive the services they  2013.                        surveys              to reform
need and the economy can
afford and entrepreneurs
throughout Mozambique
are encouraged to invest.                          _
Project Development     Outcome/ Impact Indicators:  Project reports:      (from
Objective:                                                                 Objective to
Purpose)
To support the          By the end of Phase 1 of the  *  Review of progress  *  GoM
Govemment to restructure program, the following should  with triggers 6       leadership
the public service for  have been achieved:             months before end     of reform
decentralized service                                   of Phase I            process
delivery, professionalize                                                    fully in
the public service, and                                                       place
improve govemance.
* At least six reengineering
"quick wins" will have been
implemented that will be
recognized by the
Ministries' clients (through
service delivery surveys) as
improving the quality of its
services.
35



Project Development     Outcome / Impact Indicators:  Project reports:  (from Objective to
Objective:                                                             Purpose)
*  Three ministries will have
begun to implement their
plans to reengineer,
restructure and decentralize
the delivery of services
(implementation to mean:
structures have been revised
and staffing changes made).
*  The regulations required to
establish a professional
accounting body will have
been approved by the
Council of Ministers.
*  A process will have begun
under which key technical
and professional staff will
have their salaries increased
in line with the Salary
Reform Strategy and the
restructuring plans (the
number to be impacted, and
thus the exact indicator, will
be determined during the
first year of the project in
accordance with the
Strategy, once it has been
approved by the Council of
Ministers).
*  The new policy process by
which policies are formulated
and submitted to the Council
of Ministers, and which will
link policy to resources and
involve widespread
consultation, will have been
designed and have begun to
be implemented.  ___
Output from each       Output Indicators:           Project reports:   (from- Outputs to
Component:                                                             Objective)
Objectives and Activities
1. Restructuring,:
To begin a process of
restructuring central
government so that service
delivery will be improve
through decentralization
and rationalization of
procedures.
36



Performance improvement *  Restructuring and        *  Progress reports
model institutionalized in  reengineering plans
six ministries restructuring  completed with high staff
and decentralizing plans  involvement.
approved by Council of
Ministers.
Performance Improvement *  PIF in place by end of 2003.
Facility in place.         First round of applications to
At least three ministries  the PIF processed by end of
will have begun            2004, and implementation
implementing the plan.     underway by end of 1 st
phase.
At least 6 reengineering  *  Studies to identify potential  *  Feedback from
"Quick Wins"               quick wins completed.       hotlines,
implemented with        *  Studies to reengineer       suggestions
concrete and visible       selected processes          boxes and web
impact on service delivery  completed.                 sites established
*  Implementation of quick      in ministries and
wins completed.             agencies as
*  Information campaign on      vehicles for
new procedures/services      feedback and
completed.                  participation of
*  Service delivery surveys     citizens.
implemented.             *   Service delivery
surveys show
better service
delivery.
Manual on process of   *  Report on policy          *  Progress reports
formulating and           formulation completed.
evaluating public policies.
Policy analysis units  *  Middle level staff,
strengthened or           specialists, senior managers
established in key        and ministers trained in the
government institutions.  policy formulation and
evaluation process.
Communication within   *  GOVNET established.
public service facilitated  *  Staff trained in GOVNET.
through GOVNET.
2. Professionalization:
To motivate public
servants to become more
responsive to the needs of
citizens and businesses.
37



Support design (including  *  Medium Term Pay Strategy  *  Salary Review  * GoM prepared
funding and administrative  completed and adopted by  Study             to make tough
arrangements) of a         Council of Ministers by end                  salary priority
Medium Term Pay            of 2003.                                     choices
Strategy.
Design of a scheme to  *   Scheme designed and
enhance the salaries of key  implemented by end of first
staff in the short term   phase.
Human resources        *   Civil services statutes  *  Progress reports
management strengthened    revised to promote greater
and decentralized.        professionalism.
*  HRM departments
strengthened at the center
and sub national levels.
*  Effective decentralization of
key hiring and promotion
decisions in place.
3. Governance:
To improve allocation,
efficient use and
accountability ofpublic
resources.
New established institute  *  Strategic plan for   *  Progress reports
of accountants has        establishment of
become a member of the    Accountancy profession
East, Central and         completed.
Southern Africa        *  Professional accounting
Federation of Accountants  body established.
and has promulgated the  *  Procurement capacity of
International Federation  public procurement entities
of Accountants'           assessed and appropriate.
accounting and auditing  *  Training programs
standards to its members.  developed.
Procurement code       *  Dissemination and training
completed capacity        on new Procurement code.
building for procurement
implementation.
38



Support to oversight role  Establish technical office in the
of National Assembly   National Assembly to support
deputies.
4. Program
Coordination:
To enhance UTRESP and
CIRESP capacity to
coordinate and monitor
the reforms and
communicate with key
stakeholders.
Effective management   *  Reports on progress, plans,  *  Progress reports
and coordination of policy  finance and accounting,
development and           procurement submitted on
implementation of public  time and of high quality
sector reforms            throughout the project.
technical support.     *  Council of Advisors
established.
*  70% of contracts under    *  Supervision
UTRESP signed on time in    reports
2004.
* Governance and corruption
survey results.
Service delivery       *  EEC strategy implemented.
improvements monitored  *  Regular radio and television
and reported regularly to  programs to discuss issues
stakeholders.             relating to the public sector.
Project Components /   Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:   (from Components
Sub-components:        component)                                     to Outputs)
Inputs:                     Proiect Budget
Component 1:                $ 9.6 million           *  Quarterly      *   Timely
Restructuring                                          progress           availability of
counterpart
funds
Component 2:                $ 1.1 million           *  Annual
Professionalization                                    disbursement
reports
Component 3:                $11.7 million           * Annual audit
Governance
Component 4:                $ 3.2 million           *  Project reports
Program Coordination
Total                       $25.6 million
39



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
The President launched the Public Sector Reform Strategy in June 2001. The ten-year strategy
was prepared for CIRESP, inter-ministerial commission on public sector reform, by UTRESP, its
technical secretariat. The strategy has been discussed with a wide range of stakeholders.
UTRESP already prepared a detailed and costed draft action plan for the three first years of
activities, that will be discussed with the sectors, and then sent to CIRESP for approval. The
strategy is summarized below.
GoM Public Sector Reform Strategy
(in italics, Bank project's component)
Component 1 (restructuring): Improving service delivery through decentralization and Institutional
restructuring
Objectives: To enhance capacity of institutions at the local level to provide public services; to restructure units of
central Government for improved public service delivery.
Results: Improved delivery of public services as a result of restructuring and capacity building of local organs and
enhanced participation of citizens in governance; A more effective state with enhanced capacity to deliver public
services.
Component 2 (restructuring):: Strengthening the policy formulation and monitoring process
Objective: To enhance capacity of the Government and administration to formulate and monitor public policies.
Result: Creation of an effective system of intersectoral committees to deal with the formulation and evaluation of
important national policies.
Component 3 (professionalization): Enhancing professionalism in the public sector
Objectives: To improve the institutional framework for human resource management at central and provincial levels;
To improve the employment conditions in the public service so as to promote the hiring of qualified personnel and the
retention of key staff; To effectively implement the national training system in public administration.
Results: Greater professionalism in the management of hurnan resources in the public sector at both central and
provincial levels; Public sector better equipped to recruit, retain and monitor the performance of qualified staff,
particularly those in senior policy and management positions; Well-functioning national training system in public
administration with significant training capacity.
Component 4 (governance): Improving financial management and accountability
Objectives: Strengthen financial planning and budgeting systems to improve the efficiency of resource allocations in
the public sector; strengthen expenditure management to increase control and to improve social and economic
outcomes of resource allocations in the public sector.
Results: Better integration between sectoral policies and budgets; Higher economic and social rates of return on public
expenditures because of better targeting and resource management and enhanced accountability and transparency
through quality audit and inspection mechanisms.
Component 5 (governance): Promoting good governance and combating corruption
Objectives: A comprehensive national anti-corruption strategy approved and implemented; Quality of the govemance
system improved.
Results: Greater understanding among policy-makers and the citizens at large of the root causes of corruption and the
needed legal, institutional and capacity building remedies; improved functioning of the judicial sector, legislative
system and electoral administration.
Component 6 (program coordination): Management of the Reform Process
Objectives: UTRESP well-equipped to lead, coordinate and monitor the public sector reform process.
Results: Highly effective leadership and management of the reform process at both central and local levels with active
participation of citizens and stakeholders.
The project is aiming to support the implementation of this strategy through the provision of
technical assistance and training, procurement of equipment and vehicles and funding of
incremental operating costs. The project description details the various activities it is proposed
the IDA grant will support. IDA support will consist of four components.
40



By Component:
Component 1: Restructuring (US$9.6 million)
Objective: To restructure central government for improved service delivery, through further
decentralization and rationalization ofprocedures.
The GoM strategy links enhancing the capacity of institutions at the local level to deliver services
and restructuring the center of Government to realign its role towards the core functions of policy
making and monitoring and evaluation. The PSR project will mainly take responsibility for
activities aiming at realigning the center, since other donors and two World Bank projects are
already providing support to local governments and local authorities.
Quick Wins
The necessity to build early support for the reform program has been acknowledged by the GoM.
To that effect, each Ministry has proposed "quick wins", i.e., concrete actions that are
inexpensive, can be carried out in the relatively short term, are visible, and have a direct and
positive impact on service delivery. The Prime Minister has asked that Ministries report to him as
President of CIRESP on progress with quick wins. The project will fund the process of
reengineering studies leading to the quick wins and the cost of implementing the quick wins.
Quick Wins to Date:
* physically opening up all counters separating civil servants from the people;
* posting complaints books in all offices, as well as dedicated phone lines to make complaints;
* reducing to 90 days the land use approval process;
* introducing quick process of visa application directly at the frontier;
* approving a decree defining public service standards;
* providing special access for large taxpayers.
Restructuring of key ministries
At the request of the Prime Minister, UTRESP will support the preparation of restructuring plans
in all ministries along the lines of the vision/plan recently prepared for the Ministry of Education.
UTRESP will undertake preparatory work that will include guidelines, mapping the public
service, an analysis of the existing structures, and other ground rules for the process. With
support from donors UTRESP will also help to establish and train change management teams in
all ministries in the period before effectiveness. Bidding will take place under the project for
consulting firms to work with the ministerial change management teams to prepare the
restructuring plans and then possible work with the ministries in the implementation of the plans.
During the first phase, key ministries will be benefiting from this exercise, and in particular
Education and Health. Since some of these ministries have already undertaken reforms, this
activity will build on progress to date. For example, the Ministry of Health is improving planning
and budgeting in the provinces and aims to decentralize service delivery. Education has asked for
support for decentralizing activities.
The functional review of key ministries will set the agenda and build commitment for the
subsequent restructuring. Key elements of this functional review process will be: strong linkages
between the ministry's mission and the objectives defined in PARPA; the links with the Salary
41



Enhancement Scheme now under preparation (the functional review will be the basis for the
individual performance contracts); a close involvement of the staff of the ministry at all levels
during the functional review, in order to create support for follow-up implementation;
formulation for plans to deconcentrate/decentralize service delivery.  Once approved, the
restructuring, re-engineering and decentralization plans for the 6 key ministries will be
implemented (including the adjustment of staffing tables to reflect the recommendations of the
functional review and the revision of job descriptions for senior staff) through a Performance
Improvement Facility (PIF - see Annex 13 for an outline of how the fund will be operated).
The PIEF will provide flexible financing to facilitate performance improvement and provide
incentives for ministries to do so. Access to the PIEF will be conditional upon the development of
the restructuring, re-engineering and decentralization plan. Further drawdowns will be contingent
on clear improved performance against the identified performance indicators.
The PIEF will thereby assist the sector ministries to prepare the reforms of processes, structures
and policy needed to implement PARPA. The achievement of these reforms would form the
targets for successive PRSCs.
Policy and monitoring
The results of a study commissioned by UTRE,SP of the process by which policies are
formulated, decided upon, implemented and monitored characterized this process as unsystematic
and uncoordinated. In order to prepare the GoM's central management units to play their "white
collar" role (i.e. policy making and monitoring), the policy processes will be rationalized and
staff trained. The project will build capacity to link policy and resources more closely, especially
through the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Plan (PARPA). This will "raise the political profile of MTEF", as-recommended in the PER and
CFAA, and create the legal basis for the MTEF. It will strengthen or establish policy analysis
units in key government ministries and other institutions (PR, GPM, MAE, MPF), provide
support for analytical reviews and/or evaluations of selected policies, and create a central
depository (database) of public policies (with associated analytical reviews and evaluations).
Capacity building of middle level staff, specialists, senior managers and ministers in the policy
formulation and evaluation process will be an important element of this reengineering process.
Another key aspect of this process will be the installation of GOVNET to facilitate
communications among staff within the public sector, and of GOVSYS - an electronic
documentation center to promote enhanced information sharing with the public. As noted in
several countries,-introduction of electronic mail may have a strong positive impact on behavior
by encouraging dialogue, speeding decisions, and even flattening hierarchies.
Phase 2
The restructuring plans prepared in Phase I will be rolled out in Phase 2. The current GoM
policy favors deconcentration plus a modest expansion in the number of local authorities, largely
because of capacity constraints. The degree of decentralized service delivery during phase 2 will
depend largely on the success of the decentralization policy which is supported by a number of
donors, including two Bank projects. At this slage, the issue of overlapping competencies
between local sectoral administration and territorial administration will need to be systematically
addressed. The policy itself is one of proceeding at the rate at which capacity is developed and
demonstrated. Fiscal decentralization will follow the development of capacity. During this phase
all other ministries will prepare and implement their restructuring plans. The implementation of
42



the plans will be supported by the PIEF. The built-in reward mechanism will promote reform
where there is strong commitment. The quick wins program will continue. As Phase 2 proceeds,
the center of government will increasingly focus on policy formulation and monitoring and
evaluation.
Component 2: Professionalization (US$ 1.1 million)
Objective: Motivate public servants to become more responsive to the needs of citizens and
businesses and increase professionalism.
Quality rather than quantity has long been identified as the principal staffing issue in the country.
Although there may be a need to change some staff, the most obvious needs are to attract and
retain qualified staff, provide staff with on-the-job training through locally-based training
institutions, and rationalize, speed-up and improve human resources management at all levels.
Incentives: salary enhancement scheme
The project will support the design of a sustainable medium term pay strategy that will establish
the priorities for raising the salaries of civil servants within the context of the revenue
expectations of government and the policy priorities established in MTEF and PARPA. The
project will support the design of a donor supported scheme that will provide the basis for
supplementing the salaries of key staff within the framework of the medium term pay strategy
and on the basis that the salaries will eventually be sustained by the GoM's own funds. The
project will support the preparation of plans to introduce results oriented performance
management for senior managers and in key central coordination agencies.
Alternative policy scenario are being developed by the Government's multi-agency task force. A
PPF-financed study salary survey will provide information on salaries paid in the private sector
and parastatals for positions and skills that are most difficult to retain in the public sector. Options
will be constrained by what is thought to be affordable, at the moment a wage bill of no more
than seven per cent of GDP, as indicated in the PARPA targets. The scenarios vary by allocating
the additional resources to different ranges of "key technical, professional and managerial staff."
All those receiving salary supplements would have to sign performance contracts. The
Government favors disbursing donor support through normal budgetary channels. The salary
enhancement fund will be transitional, and phased out over a yet to be agreed period of years.
Implementation of this strategy can only take place alongside the restructuring, which will help
define the key positions. It will therefore be done during the second phase. Meanwhile, the
leaders, managers, and key technical and professional staff essential to prepare and implement the
reforms needed under this project and the sectoral reform programs have to have the incentives
needed to become fully committed to reform and to their roles in the reform programs. There is
an immediate need to enhance their conditions of employment to achieve this. The project will
fund the design of a scheme to enhance the salaries of key staff in the short term.
Human resources development
Reforms supported by this activity will include the following activities, aiming at improving the
current HRM systems:
1. System improvement:
43



a. revised civil service statutes (EGFE - General Status of Civil Servants-, SCR -
Compensation and Remuneration System) to promote greater professionalism in
the public sector and reflect the new role of the state in public management;
b. improved systems and more effective processes for the management of the SCR
(recruitment, promotion, etc.);
c. revised State Career and Remuneration System (SCR) with links to SIFAP
(Public Service Training System) and salary reform;
d. adoption of Gender Strategy for the public service.
2. Strengthening and restructuring of Human Resources Management departments at both
central and provincial levels through:
a. re-profiling of HRM departments based on outcome of special functional reviews
of these units;
b. establishment of performance indicators for these departments;
c. adjustment of staffing tables following their functional review; and
d. comprehensive HRM training.
3. Decentralization of HRM:
a. institutionalization of a decentralized personnel information system in the public
sector (joint use by TA, MPF and MAE;
b. information technology infrastructure in place in all ministries at the central and
provincial levels to maintain the register of public servants (SIP, Personnel
Information System);
c. pilot testing of the decentralized operation of SIP, followed by full
implementation of the system;
d. linking of SIP to the SIFAP system;
e. adjustment of SIP to medium term pay reform strategy;
4. Specific support for rare skills:
a. feasibility study for creating a special career path for policy specialist at the
center;
b. definition of a special career for ICT specialists.
Phase 2
Experience with pay reform programs shows that progress will be slow. The Medium Term Pay
Strategy will be in place in Phase 1, some refomis across the board will have been implemented,
but much of the salary enhancement for key staff linked to performance contracts will remain to
be implemented in Phase 2. The rate of progress will depend on the rate at which performance
contracts can be drafted and the funding available from the budget.
44



Component 3: Governance (US$ 11.7 million)
Objective: Improve allocation, efficient use and accountability ofpublic resources.
Accounting and procurement
The GoM PSR Strategy supports improving expenditure management and accountability as a
high priority. The section of the Strategy outlining the principal problems complains of poor
budget execution, incremental budgeting, unclear responsibilities, too much extra-budgetary
spending, and weak accountability and auditing, including weak parliamentary supervision. To
address these problems the Strategy includes the following objectives:
*  promotion of MTEF based budgeting at central, provincial and district levels;
*  improving budget execution;
*  introducing a chart of accounts in line with the new functional budget classification;
*  linking budget execution to the results to be achieved in programs and projects;
*  establishing SISTAFE (IFMIS);
*  improving the accountability of GoM to the Assembly;
*  making sure there is accountability for all public funds;
*  gradual fiscal decentralization;
*  expand the use of contraction obligations in the use of public funds;
*  improve the regulation of procurement in the public sector, including monitoring the
application of rules;
* improving internal and external auditing; and
*  introduce legislation to underpin the above reforms.
The Government is aware that accountability and procurement systems will have to be
dramatically improved for donors to be able to rely more heavily on budget support, in particular,
the series of PRSCs. This appreciation is reflected in the Draft Letter of Sectoral Policy. The
Government's draft Anti-corruption Strategy recognizes the importance of improved
accountability systems in combating corruption.
UTRESP has drafted a detailed Implementation Plan for the first three years of the Strategy,
which approximately coincides with the first phase of this APL. The plan includes measures
suggested in the CFAA and PER, such as: a single treasury account, double entry bookkeeping,
improved budget coverage, IFMIS, and MTEF as the basis for the annual budget. The plan also
includes steps to improve procurement, an improved framework for regular audits and
expenditure tracking, the implementation of the new law on public finance and of new
procurement rules, a functional review of the Administrative Tribunal, with a view to new
operational regulations. The Plan, and the associated budget, includes substantial provision for
the development of training capacity and for training itself, at all levels of Government.
Substantial funding for IT is also anticipated, in particular to support the introduction of IFMIS.
The Bank and other donors have undertaken to support the implementation of this part of the
Strategy as a matter of high priority. It is foreseen that the installation of the IFMIS will be
funded through the G-10 group of donors. Considering the importance of this activity for the
country, the Bank project will include a high contingency that would allow this project to fund
part of the IFMIS, should this be needed. The Bank's project will focus its support on the
establishment of an accounting profession. This will require consulting, institutional
development, training and equipment support including procurement of vehicles. The project will
45



also build capacity in the National Assembly to provide legislative oversight, through
organizational, technical, administrative and operational reforms, the creation of a Technical
office to support the deputies, and training of its staff. The Bank's project will also support
procurement reform and capacity building.
Phase 2
The program will continue to provide capacity building support, through training, as needed to
improve budget preparation, cash management and accounting, with a focus on the implementation
of IFMIS (SISTAFE). With funding support from other donors, the IFMIS will be rolled out during
the second phase, having been piloted in the first. Two approaches to the piloting have been
suggested: top down (Ministry of Finance first) and bottom up (starting with a willing and prepared
ministry, perhaps Education). The intention is for the IFMIS to cover the whole of Government,
central and local.
The MTEF, which will be linked to the PARPA priorities, will become the basis for the budget, not,
as now, a technical exercise. The Council of Ministers will become much more actively involved in
determining MTEF priorities than is the case now with the budget. The MTEF will be a true setting
of priorities not just an incremental, three-year budget. The MTEF will become a very participatory
process, inside and outside government.
During phase 2, the Administrative Tribunal will itself be decentralized. At the moment the only
office is in Maputo. It will have developed better auditing capacity in phase one; this capacity
will be spread to the provinces. The Assembly will continue to develop its oversight capacity,
and become increasingly able to respond effectively to the recommendations of the AT.
The accounting profession, established in phase 1, will progressively raise its standards in phase
2. The training of bookkeepers and accountants will increasingly cover those in deconcentrated
and decentralized service delivery units in phase 2.
It is not clear at this stage what parts of the program will be financed through the project, since
much will depend on the progresses made during the first phase.
Component 4: Program Coordination (US$3.2 nmillion)
Objective: Enhance UTRESP and CIRESP capacity to coordinate and monitor the reforms and
communicate with key stakeholders.
CIRESP and UTRESP will be supported by a number of long-term Mozambican consultants, and
'intermittent international advisors. Funding will be provided for UTRESP to carry out studies of
key issues as they arise. The project will fund a Council of Advisors drawn from outside and inside
the civil service.
An Information Center for the public sector reform program will be set up. Wide-spread
dissemination of reform plans, activities and progress reports will take place through a regular
updating of a public sector reform web site, the setting up of an information center in Maputo, and
regular publications of key documents of interest. In order to accompany the reforns and change
processes outside the capital, provincial public sector reform offices with adequate staffing and
technical infrastructure will be established.
46



Regular training of staff of UTRESP and provincial reform offices, Permanent Secretaries and
members of CIRESP in facilitation and management skills to lead the reform process will be
financed throughout the project.
47



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
1. Restructuring                                      4.7         8.7        13.4
2. Professionalization                               3.5          2.3         5.8
3. Governance                                       10.0          9.0        19.0
4. Program Coordination                               1.4         2.0         3.4
Total Baseline Cost     19.6        22.0        41.6
Contingencies        1.6         1.8         3.4
Total Project C'ost     21.2        23.8        45.0
Civil Works                                          0.6                      0.
Goods, Equipment & Vehicles                          0.5          4.9
Consultants' Services and Audits                     4.9         14.9        19.8
Training                                            10.7          0.4        11.1
Grants for PIF Plans                                 2.9          3.6         6.5
Operating Costs                                      1.6          0.0          .
Total Project Cosl     21.2         23.8        45.0
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
48



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary)
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
None
49



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
Project Costs
Investmnent Costs             10.9        18.4        10.8        3.0        43.1
Recurrent Costs                0.5         1.0        0.4         0.1        1.9
Total               11.3        19.4        11.2        3.1        45.0
Financing Sources (% of Total)
IDA                           51%         49%         67%         91%        57%
Government                    9%          9%          9%          9%         9%
Others                        40%         42%         25%         0%         34%
Total              100%        100%        100%        100%       100%
Note: Figures in total rmay not add up due to rounding.
50



Annex 5a: Financial Management Assessment Report4
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
A. GENERAL
1.    The Inter-Ministerial Commission for the Reform of the Public Service (CIRESP) was
established by Presidential Decree No 5/2000 (March 28, 2000) and is chaired by the Prime Minister.
The Council of Ministers created the Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Service (UTRESP)
as a Secretariat to CIRESP.
2.     Under the supervision of the Project Director, the Financial Manager of UTRESP is
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the Public Sector
Reform Project will be acceptable to the Govermment, the World Bank and other Cooperating
Partners.
3.     The principal objective of the Project's Financial Management System (FMS) will be to
support management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will
serve the needs of the people of Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing
timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to
plan, implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress towards the achievement of its
objectives. For the Project to fully deliver on the aforementioned objectives, it's FMS will be
developed in accordance with the Financial Management Arrangements presented in Section C of
this Annex.
B. SUMMARY RISK ASSESSMENT
Inherent Risk:
4.     The CFAA Report on Mozambique (December 2001) stated: "The public sector financial
management environment in Mozambique denotes a situation of high fiduciary risk: material receipts
and payments are excluded from the budget and from the Government accounting and reporting
systems; accounting systems and standards are outmoded; internal and external auditing require
substantial support; and parliamentary oversight requires strengthening. Because of the high
fiduciary risk, the World Bank takes special measures to ensure adequate financial management of its
portfolio. Project management units are often established to manage IDA-financed projects and
Bank funding is "ring-fenced " to mitigate fiduciary risk ".
Control Risk:
5.     Although the country fiduciary risk is high, the Project financial management risk is
considered moderate provided: (a) the financial management arrangements described in Section C of
this Annex are satisfactorily addressed; and (b) the grant effectiveness conditions outlined in Section
G of the PAD are met.
4 Please refer to the detailed Financial Management Assessment Report that was prepared jointly by the
Financial Manager of UTRESP and FMSs from the World Bank (February 14, 2002).
51



C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Financial Management Staff:
6.     Staff include: Financial Manager, Project Accountant, Procurement Specialist and support
staff. Varying levels of staff training will be required in fmancial, management and government
accounting; information systems and computer applications; and procedures relating to the utilization
of funds (e.g. Special Accounts, SOEs, Special Comrnitments, Procurement, FMRs etc.). On-the-job
coaching will also be provided.
Financial Management System (FMS):
7.    In order to ensure that an acceptable FMS will be in place by grant effectiveness, a Financial
Management Consultant will be retained: (i) to advise on the selection and installation of the Project's
computerized FMS; (ii) to prepare the Project's Financial Procedures Manual5 (FPM, including
records management); and (iii) to train staff in the operation of the system. Provision has been made
in the budget for hardware and software requirements as well as training.
Accounting Policies and Control Procedures:
8.     The Chart of Accounts will facilitate the preparation of relevant monthly, quarterly and
annual financial statements, including information on the following: (a) total project expenditures; (b)
total fnancial contribution from each financier; (c) total expenditure on each project
component/activity; and (d) analysis of that total expenditure into civil works, various categories of
goods, training, consultants and other procurement and disbursement categories.
9.     Project accounts will be maintained on a cash basis, augmented with appropriate records and
procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets. Accounting records will be maintained in
dual currencies (i.e. Meticais and US Dollars). Annual financial statements will be prepared in
accordance with International Accounting Standards (IASs).
10.    All accounting and control procedures will be documented in the FPM, a living document
that will be regularly updated by the Financial Manager.
11.    Project activities will be periodically reviewed by the Audit Unit (IGF) at the MPF.
Planning and Budgeting:
12.   The Financial Manager, in consultation with the Project Director, Procurement Specialist and
other members of the Project Team, will be responsible for preparing the Project's Quarterly/Annual
Cash Flow Forecasts. The Forecast will be modeled on the suggested presentations contained in the
World Bank publication: Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for World Bank Financed Projects:
Guidelines for Recipients (OPCS, November 30, 2001). Detailed procedures for planning and
budgeting will be documented in the FPM.
5A consultant will be retained to develop the Procedures Mamual for the Performance Improvement Facility.
52



Procurement of Goods, Works and Services:
13.    World Bank and Government procurement regulations will be observed. The financial
management staff will be conversant with those procedures, as intemal control issues and the
incurring of liabilities on behalf of the Project will be matters of concem to the financial management
function. A Procurement Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be
prepared quarterly for consideration by the UTRESP.
14.    Procurement procedures will be documented in the Project Implementation Manual.
Banking Activities-Flow of Funds (To be finalized with the Loan Dept)6
15.    The FMU will maintain 3 bank accounts as follows:
(a) Special Account with Bank X in US Dollars/Meticais, that will show:
* Dollar/Meticais cost of transfers to Part I Account with Bank X;
* Dollar/Meticais cost of payments to suppliers;
* Dollar advances (Meticais equivalent cost) from the IDA Ledger Grant Account;
* Opening and Closing Balances.
(b) Current Account in Meticais with Bank X (Part 1 Account) to which draw-downs from the
Special Account will be credited once per month (towards the end of the month) in respect of
incurred eligible expenses. Following the immediate payment of those liabilities, the balance on
this account should be zero at the end of each month.
(c) Current Project Account in Meticais with Bank X (Part 2 Account) to which Counterpart
Funding will be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be provided and, thereafter, it will
be replenished monthly.
16.   In addition, an IDA Ledger Grant Account (Washington) in US Dollars/Meticais/SDR will be
maintained to track drawdowns from the IDA grant i.e. (a) cost of transfers to Bank X; (ii) cost of
direct payments to suppliers; and (iii) opening and closing Balances.
17.   Bank accounts will be reconciled monthly and reconciliations will be approved by the
Financial Manager on a timely basis. Identified differences will be expeditiously investigated.
Control procedures over all bank transactions (e.g. check signatories, transfers, advances etc.) will be
documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Withdrawals/Disbursements:
18.   By grant effectiveness, the Project will not be ready for report-based disbursements. Thus, at
the initial stage, transaction-based disbursement procedures (as described in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook) will be followed, i.e. direct payment, reimbursement and special
commitments. In due course, provided the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) produced
are considered adequate and available on a timely basis, and provided the recipient requests
6 Project fumding will comprise the IDA Grant, Counterpart Funds and the proposed Multi-Donor Pool
(proposed funding from Denmark, Britain, Ireland and some others is still under discussion).
53



conversion to report-based disbursements, a review will be undertaken by the Task Team to
determine if the project is eligible.
Fixed Assets/Civil Works/Consultants:
19.   A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. Regarding
Construction/Capital Work in Progress (if appropriate), controls will be established to ensure that
payments are made only for certified work (including physical verification). Contracts Register will
be maintained for all contracts. Control procedures will be documented in the FPM.
Financial Reporting and Monitoring (Monthly, Quarterly and Annually):
Monthly Reporting
20.   In compliance with Government reporting requirements, the UTRESP will be responsible for
preparing a Monthly Return (Statement of Expenses - "Prestacoes de Contas") to the MPF for
consolidation into the National Accounts of Mozambique.
21.    The Financial Manager will also prepare a monthly Status of Funds Report for the Project
Director.
Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
22.    The Financial Manager, in collaboration with the Project Director and Procurement
Specialist, will prepare quarterly FMRs on a timely basis that will include:
Consolidated Financial Reports comprising a statement showing for the period and cumulatively
(project life or year to date) inflows by sources and outflows by main expenditure classifications;
beginning and ending cash balances of the project; and supporting schedules comparing actual and
planned expenditures. The reports will also include a cash forecast for the next two quarters.
Consolidated Physical Progress Reports comprising narrative information and output indicators
(agreed during project preparation) linking financial information with physical progress, and highlight
issues that require attention.
Consolidated Procurement Reports providing inforrnation on the procurement of goods, work, and
related services, and the selection of consultants, and on compliance with agreed procurement
methods. The reports will compare procurement performance against the plan agreed at negotiations
or subsequently updated, and highlight key procurement issues such as staffing and building recipient
capacity. In addition to procurement progress, the reports will include information on all authorized
contract variations. Information on complaints by bidders, unsatisfactory performance by contractors,
and any major contractual disputes may also be included.
23.   Indicative formats for Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) are outlined in the World Bank
publication: Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank Financed Projects: Guidelines for
Recipients (OPCS, November 30, 2001).
54



Annual Financial Statements
24.    The Project Financial Statements will include:
* Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (showing IDA, Counterpart Funds
and funds from other donors);
* Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
* Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
when preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or explanations that may
be deemed appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view";
*  A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts (including the IDA
Special Account) to the bank balances on the Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds;
*  SOE   Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
*  A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
External Audit
25.    Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved
terms of reference. Audited financial statements (Consolidated) will be submitted to the Bank
within six months after the financial year end.
26.    Besides expressing a primary opinion on the financial statements in compliance with
International Auditing Standards (EFAC pronouncements), the auditor will be required to include a
separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE
procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for grant disbursements.
27.    Regarding the Special Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to the
degree of compliance with World Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end.
28.   In addition, the auditor will be required to prepare a separate Management Letter giving
observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting
records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.
Financial Management Supervision
29.    Supervision activities will include: review of quarterly FMRs; review of annual audit reports
and management letter as well as timely follow up of issues arising; annual SOE review; participating
in project supervision missions as appropriate; and updating the financial management rating in the
Project Status Report (PSR).
Grant Effectiveness - Required Actions and Next Steps
30.    Salient issues to be addressed:
* FMS installed;
* Financial Procedures Manual developed;
* Counterpart Funds and Special Accounts opened; World Bank advised of authorized bank
signatories/specimen signatures.
* Initial capacity building completed e.g. FMS, Special Account, SOEs and computer skills.
55



* Relevantly qualified external auditor appointed on approved terms of reference.
Conclusion:
31.    Subject to the Required Actions and Next Steps presented above being satisfactorily
addressed by the UTRESP prior to grant effectiveness, the Bank's financial management
requirements will be satisfied.
56



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
Procurement:
Procurement requirements for the entire project will be carried out at the UTRESP but in close
collaboration with the beneficiaries of the project. The focal institutions of project components will
be responsible for the preparation of lists of requirements and annual procurement plans for works,
goods and services that are to be procured under their respective components. A Procurement Unit to
be established within UTRESP under the guidance of a Procurement Officer (to be recruited by
UTRESP) will consolidate the individual needs and procurement plans of such institutions into an
overall annual procurement plans for the project. The consolidated annual work plans and
procurement plans of the project will be reviewed by the Advisory Panel of UTRESP, and
subsequently agreed with the Bank.
Procurement methods (Table A):
Procurement of all IDA-financed works, goods, and services will be carried out in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consulting services by
firms or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded contracts in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: in Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Recipients (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The appropriate World Bank standard bidding
documents will be used for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) with any appropriate modifications. The World Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals (RFPs) will be used for the selection of consultants.
Advertising:
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) for consulting services, goods and works was submitted to the
Bank for publication in the United Nations Development Business prior to negotiations. The GPN
will be updated at least once a year and submitted to IDA for review.
Procurement Plan:
A procurement plan for consulting services, goods and works for the first year of project has been
prepared. The plan includes relevant information on consulting services, goods and works as well as
the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated
every quarter and reviewed by IDA at each supervision mission. The detailed implementation plan is
included in the PIP.
Performance Improvement Fund (PEY) Plan:
The proposed IDA Grant will also finance procurement activities associated with the implementation
of the PIEF Plans. Funding of these activities will be made on the basis of an appraisal conducted in
accordance with the guidelines and eligibility criteria specified in the PIF Manual. Furthermore, the
PIF Plans will be carried out in accordance with the PIF Memorandum of Understandings to be
received, reviewed and selected, approved and executed by CIRESP and relevant Ministries under
terms and conditions agreed with IDA.
57



Procurement of Goods, works and services under the PIF will be in accordance with the procedures
set forth in the PIF Manual. Such goods, works and services will be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the PIF Plan. Disbursement of funds under the PIF will be based on a positive list of activities
as described in the PIF manual.
Civil Works:
Civil works will consist of small rehabilitation of offices estimated at around US$0.6 million of
which about US$0.4 million will be funded by the proposed Grant. Contracts will be awarded on the
basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Minor works costing
less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract up to aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000
equivalent may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts on the basis of quotations obtained
from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings were applicable. The awards will be
made to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they
demonstrate they have the experience and the resources to complete the contract successfully.
Goods:
The total cost of goods for the entire project is estimated at US$6.0 million of which approximately
US$3.5 million will be funded by the proposed Grant. Approximately US$0.7 million of the IDA
funding for goods is earmarked for PIF Grants. Procurement will be bulked where feasible into
packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more and will be procured through ICB procedures.
Goods estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$1,500,000 will be procured through NCB procedures that are acceptable to IDA.
Goods that are estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate
amount of US$400,000 equivalent may procured through National Shopping procedures for goods
available in the local market and/or through International Shopping procedures for goods that cannot
be supplied within the country and/or through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the
UNDP (IAPSO). Procurement through LAPSO be carried out for goods that are estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent per contract.
Services:
The total cost of consultant services for the entire project is estimated at US$24.0 million of which
about US$13.2 million equivalent will be funded by the proposed Grant. Approximately US$4.2
million of the IDA funding for consultant services is earmarked for PIF Grants. Except as detailed
below, consulting services will be selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms
based on Quality- and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) in accordance with the provisions of Section II
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Services for audits estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be selected through
Least-Cost Selection as prescribed in paragraph 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants' Guidelines.
Selection of individual consultants will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1-5.3 of Section V of the Consultants' Guidelines.
58



Services for very small assignments for which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive
proposals is not justified and which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7
(Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications) of the Consultants' Guidelines.
Services for sector studies, market studies and surveys of limited scope estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 (Fixed Budget Selection) of the Consultant Guidelines.
Only in exceptional cases that meet the conditions set forth in paragraphs 3.8-3.11 of the Consultant
Guidelines, consultancy services estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate
amount of US$400,000 may be procured on single-source basis subject to prior clearance with the
Bank.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants,
short-lists for contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less may be comprised entirely of
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants'
Guidelines.
Review by the Bank:
Prior Review
Prior to commencing any procurement activity for goods, works and services the proposed
procurement plan will be presented to the Bank for its review and approval. The proposed plan for
the selection of consultants will be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.
The first three procurement packages for goods, works or services irrespective of their value will be
reviewed by IDA in accordance with the Bank's Prior Review Procedures.
Goods and Works
IDA's prior review procedures will apply to all purchases for which the contract value is equivalent to
US$200,000 or more for works.
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines will apply.
Consultants ' Services
The Bank will review the Terms of Reference for all Consultancy Services. Contracts for services
above US$250,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals require the prior review no objection by
IDA.
Training
Approximately US$12.4 million is earmarked for training activities of which about US$7.8 million
will be funded by the proposed Grant. Approximately US$1.3 million of the total IDA funding for
training is earmarked for PIF Grants. Training programs will consist of study tours, seminars,
workshops which are geared toward improving management and skills of public servants. The
59



training activities will be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval. All training will be carried
out in accordance with Bank and Government approved annual training plans that identify the nature
of training, institutions involved, cost estimates, contents of courses, and reporting requirements. The
training plan will be reviewed by IDA on a quarterly basis
PostReview
With respect to each contract not subject to prior review, post review will be conducted m accordance with the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Operating Costs:
Approximately US$0.7 million of the IDA funds is earmarked for incremental costs. This would
include support for expenditures that pertain to project implementation, management and monitoring,
including office supplies, equipment maintenance, communication costs, vehicle operation, travel and
supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient's civil service. Of the total
estimated amount, about US$0.3 million is estimated to be utilized to support incremental operating
requirements of demand-driven programs through the Performance Improvement Facility and about
US$0.4 million is estimated to be utilized by relevant technical units to support operating
requirements of activities that deals with the promotion of good governance and campaign against
corruption and management of the reform process.
Procurement Methods IX
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million e auivalent) 
Civil Works                                       0.40                     0.17          0.57
(0.31)                  (().13)4       (0.44)
Goods, Equipment & Vehicles            3.93       1.06        0.37                       5.36
(1.67)     (0.88)      (0.32)         -           (2.87)
Consultant Services                                                        19.81         19.81
(8.91)        (8.91)
Trairing                                                                   11.11         11.11
(6.51)        (6.51)
Grants for the PIF Plans 3               _        0.65          -          5.88          6.53
(0.65)        -          (5.88)        (6.53)
Operating Costs                                                 -          1.60          1.60
-    -           -          (0.32)        (0.32)
Total Project Cost   3.93       2.11        0.37        38.58         44.99
of which IDA Funded by IDA      7.        (1.84)      (0.32)       (21.75)       (25.58)
rICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB= National Competitive Bidding; NIS = National and International
Shopping; Other = Other procurement selection procedures (see Table A2 below).
21 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Grant. All costs includes contingencies.
3 Performance Improvement Fund
4/Procurement of small works on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) domestic contractors.
Note: Figures in total may not add up due to rounding.
60



Annex 6, Table A2: Consultants Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent) j/
A. Finns          0.4         15.0        0.1        0.1                    15.6
(0.3)        (6.4)      (0. 1)     (0.1)       -           (6.9)
B. Individuals    2.8                     0.2        0.2        1.0         4.2
(1.2)         -         (0.2)       0.2       0.4         (2.0)
Total             3.2         15.0        0.4       0.3        1.0          19.8
(1.5)        (6.4)      (0.3)       0.3)     (0.4)        (8.9)
T'Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; CQ = Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications;
LC= Least Cost; FB = Fixed Budget; SS = Single Source Selection;.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank grant.
Note: Figures in total may not add up due to rounding
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
_7 
Civil Works              >200,000                 NCB               Prior Review
<200,000                 NCB               First three contracts
prior review. All
others post-review
Goods                    >100,000                 ICB               Prior Review
<100,000                 NCB               Post Review
<50,000                  NS/IS             Post Review
Consultants
Finms             >250,000                 QCBS              Prior Review
<250,000                 QCBS              Post Review
<100,000                 CQ                Post Review
Individuals       >50,000                  IC                Prior Review
<50,000                  IC                Post Review
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
An assessment of UTRESP procurement capacity has been conducted, and a report has been
prepared. The report indicates "Average" risk based on the following: (i) UTRESP has hired a
Procurement Specialist who has previous experience in a World Bank project; (ii) implementation of
procurement under the PHRD Grant and PPF were carried out smoothly and in a timely manner (i.e.
PHRD grant was fully committed as planned and procurement actions under the PPF were initiated
promptly); (iii) strong and clear reporting arrangements between UTRESP, CIRESP and other key
stakeholders; and (iv) UTRESP has used procurement rules of the Bank and other Donors and very
little procurement was initiated using government rules since it was established a year ago. UTRESP
will also ensure that all procurement staff are adequately trained on World Bank procedures and if the
61



need arises, additional staff would be hired to facilitate implementation of day-to-day procurement
tasks under the project.
It is noted that the procurement process of all goods and services contracts, and selection of all
officers under the project as well as the evaluation process of received bids and proposals will be
carried out by the UTRESP in close collaboration with other implementing agencies and relevant
GOM entities as appropriate. In addition, a detailed Procurement Plan with timelines of the
procurement processing steps for the first year implementation of the project has been prepared. To
the extent feasible, smaller activities have been grouped into larger contracts for economy and
efficiency.
Disbursement:
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
Disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts below the equivalent US$200,000 for
works, US$100,000 for goods and US$250,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 for individual
consultants. For such contracts and particularly training expenditures, the recipient would be allowed
to submit withdrawal applications based on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting
documents for such applications would be retained by UTRESP and made readily available for
periodic review by IDA during supervision missions and by extemal auditors. All expenditures
related to contracts above the equivalent of US$200,000 for works, US$100,000 for goods,
US$250,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants would be fully
documented, and would not be paid from SOEs. The SOE methodology will also be used for
Operating Cost and Training expenses.
Special Account (SA)
To facilitate payment of expenditures by the project, two Special Accounts (A & B) in US Dollars
would be established in the Central Bank. Special Account A is the primary account which will be
used for disbursing funds associated with project activities other than those which relate to the
Performance Improvement Fund. Funds for the latter component will be deposited under a separate
account called "Special Account B". The Authorized Allocation to the Special Account A would be
US$1.7 million while Special Account B would be US$0.8 million. IDA would make an initial
estimated deposit of about one half of these amounts for each Special Account immediately after
effectiveness until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal or exceed the equivalent SDR of the Authorized Allocation to the Special
Accounts. The SDR triggers are 4,000,000 XDRs for Special Account A and 1,500,000 XDRs for
Special Account B
Flow of Funds
IDA's share of eligible expenditures would be paid from Special Accounts, except for expenditures
greater than twenty (20%) per cent of the outstanding advances to the Special Accounts, which could
be made directly by IDA. The Recipient can ask IDA to make direct payments or issue Special
Commitments for amounts less than 20% of the advances to the Special Accounts.
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
62



the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
Disbursements under Special Account B will be based on an annual report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities as descnbed in the PIF manual. The annual report will be prepared no
later than March 31, 2004 and thereafter on an annual basis no later than March 31 of each year. An advance
of up to 3 months of approved activities will be deposited to Special Account B after receipt by IDA of the
list of eligible activities/grants. The grantees will have to document the initial advance in order to receive
additional funds.
Project Accounts/Counterpart Fund Accounts
A project account would be opened at the Central Bank under termrs and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. The project account would be used for deposits and withdrawals related to govermnent
contributions and others non-IDA sources. UTRESP would ensure that disbursements are effected in
accordance with Bank procedures and would have financial monitoring responsibility.
An amount in local currency equivalent to $50,000 will be deposited immediately after grant
effectiveness, and replenished on a regular basis, to finance the recipient's share of project costs.
Quarterly reports
Quarterly reports and forecasts will be prepared by the project and submitted to the IDA for review.
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
It is estimated that the project would be implemented over a period of about three (3) years starting in
March 2003 and the closing of the project is set for June 2006. Disbursements of IDA funds will be
done through traditional disbursement mechanisms. It is expected that the project will become
effective in March 2003.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Civil Works                                     0.5          100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of
local expenditures
Goods, Equipment and Vehicles                   2.6          100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of
local expenditures
Consultants' Services and Audits                7.5          86%
Training                                        5.9          100%
Grants for PIF Plans                            6.5          100% of amounts disbursed
Operating Cost                                  0.3          80%
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance        0.6
Unallocated                                     1.7
Total                                          25.6
63



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                 17 months
First Bank mission (identification)                                        October 2001
Appraisal mission departure                     March 2002                 June 2002
Negotiations                                    May 2002                   December 2002
Board                                           January 2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   March 2003
Prepared by: Bank team together with GoM Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector
(UTRESP)
Preparation assistance: PHRD US$260,000; PPF US$599,000; multi-donor pool; national budget.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Harry Gamett                            Task Team Leader, AFTPR
Helene Grandvoinnet                     Public Sector Specialist, AFTPR
Reynaldo Castro                         Operations Specialist, AFTPR
Nelia Dinkin                            Program Assistant, AFTPR
Jose Kastrup                            Counsel, LEGAF
Jose Janeiro                            Senior Finance Officer, LOAG2
Anthony Hegarty                         Manager, Financial Management, AFTFM
Marius Koen                             Sr. Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM
Joao Tinga                              Financial Management Analyst, AFTFM
Francesco Sarno                         Procurement Specialist, AFTPC
Subhash Dhingra                         Procurement Specialist, AFTPC
Maria Isabel Nhassengo-Massingue        Procurement Assistant, AFC02
64



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
See Box I in main text for list of studies carried out in preparation of the project.
A. Project Implementation Plan
GoM has prepared detailed Implementation Plan for its Public Sector Reform Strategy
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
*Including electronic files
65



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
as of December 12, 2002
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
Difference
between
Original Amount in US$ Millions             expected
and actual
disbursementsa
Project      FY                  Purpose                IBRD       IDA         GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig     Frm
ED                                                                                                       ____     Rev'd
P049878      2003   MZ-EMPSO                              0.00     120.00       0.00      0.00      63.50  -23.50    0.00
P001806      2002   MZ-Municipal Development Project      0.00     33.60        0.00      0.00      31.08    2.92    0.00
P001785      2002   MZ-Roads and Bridges MMP              0.00     162.00       0.00      0.00     163.98   23.74    0.00
P069824      2002   Higher Education Project              0.00     60.00        0.00      0.00      59.28   -2.96    0.00
P073479      2002   MZ-Communication Sector Reform        0.00      14.90       0.00      0.00      14.26   -0.12    0.00
P001808      2001   Mineral Resources Project (NRMCP)     0.00     18.00        0.00      0.00      16.68    1.49    0.00
P070305      2000   Coastal & Marine Biodiversity Mgmt    0.00      5.60        0.00      0.00       4.87    4.93    0.00
P049874      2000   Enterprise Development                0.00     26.00        0.00      0.00      17.51   11.96    0.00
P042039      2000   Railway & Port Restr.                 0.00     100.00       0.00      0.00      69.60   43.70   -4.95
P035919      2000   Coastal Management                    0.00      5.60        4.11      0.00       3.36    2.93    1.82
P052240      1999   National Water 11                     0.00     75.00        0.00      0.00      65.10   28.41    0.00
P001786      1999   Transborder Parks                     0.00     71.00        0.00      0.00      58.31   51.92    0.00
P001799      1999   Education Sector Strategic Prog.(ESSP)  0.00   30.00        0.00      0.00      18.97   16.63    0.00
P039015      1998   National Water I                      0.00     36.00        0.00      0.00      23.44   20.31    0.00
P001759      1997   Transborder Parks                     0.00      0.00        5.00      0.00       0.54    4.95    0.00
P001792      1996   Health Sec Recovery                   0.00     98.70        0.00      0.00      13.99   25.28    0.00
P001780      1994   MZ Gas Engineering (ENGY)             0.00     30.00        0.00      3.47       0.83    4.78    4.78
P001804     1994   2nd Road and Coastal                  0.00     188.00        0.00      1.66     17.25   19.68   19.56
Total:    006    1074.40        9.11      5.12    642.55   237.06   2
66,



MOZAMBIQUE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval          Company                 Loan   Equity   Quasi     Partic  Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic
1996                AEF Cahora Bassa          0.18     .00     0.00     0.00    0.18     0.00    0.00     0.00
1998                BIM-INV                   0.00    0.30     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.30    0.00     0.00
2000                BMF                       0.00    0.20     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.20    0.00      0.00
1997/01             MOZAL                    25.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1999                Maragra Sugar            10.30    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1992                Polana Hotel              0.53    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.53     0.00    0.00     0.00
2000                SEF Ausmoz                0.72    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.45     0.00    0.00      0.00
1997                SEF CPZ                   1.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    1.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1997                SEF CTOX                  0.73    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.73     0.00    0.00     0.00
2000                SEF Cabo Caju             0.58    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.51     0.00    0.00      0.00
1999                 SEF ROBEIRA              0.13    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.13    0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:              0.50      0.00     0.00    3.53    0.50     0.00     0.00
Approvals Pendi g Commitment
FY Approval             Company                              Loan           Equity       Quasi           Partic
1999                    Mozal Swap                            9.00            0.00        0.00            0.00
2000                    BIML                                  2.00            0.00        0.30            0.00
2001                    SEF Grand Prix                        0.44            0.00        0.00             0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            11.44            0.00        0.30            0.00
67



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Mozambique      Africa  Income      Development dlamond'
2001
Population. mid-year (millions)                     18.1      674     2,511                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  210       470       430
GNI (AUas method, US$ billions)                      3.8      317      1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                       2.2       2.5       1.9    G/N
Labor force (%)                                      2.2       2.6      2.3     GNI                  '         Gross
per      -primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199541)                            capita         \   ,'       enmollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)             41        32        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     42        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            129        91        76
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           26                              Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  60       55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 55        37        37
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)  71       78        98                 Mozambique
Male                                               83        85       103           --    Lowincome group
Female                                             80        72        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000     2001
EconomIc ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                          3.5      2.5       3.8      3.6
Gross domestic investmenttGDP               6.0     16.0      39.8     41.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and servires/GDP           9.9     11.2      12.3     21.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 -9.8    -11.2      11 9     19.2
Gross naftonal savings/GDP                 -8.6     -e.7      15.6     17.3
Current aocount balance/GDP               -13.2    -29.6     -27.7     -23.6    Domestic
Interest paymentsWGDP                       0.0      0.6       3.8      5.1     sav       h                Investment
Total debVGDP 1/                            0.0    338.7     138.5    1381      savlgs
Total debt service due/exports 21           0.0     15.5       9.1      3.5
Present value of debVGDP 2/                           ..      24.6     25.3
Present value of debVexports 2V                              194.4    116.0
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991401    2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                1.2      7.3      1.6      13.9      9.0                  Mozambique
GDP per capita                     -0.1     4.9     -0.2      11.8      6.9                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      -2.7    14.8     15.0      60.0     25.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                1981     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP(%
Agricuture                                 35.1     33.7      24.4      22.0   so
Industry                                   33.8     17.6      25.1     25.8     s
Manufacturing                                      9.2      12.6      11.5    40-.
Services                                   31.1     48.6      50.5     52.2    20 
Private consumption                        97.0    100.8      78.2     70.4           9s    97   98    99   oo   o0
General govemment consumption              12.8     10 .       9.9      10.4                   GDI    -GDP
Imports of goods and services              25.8     38.4      40.0     14.0
(average annual growth)                 198141   199141      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 5.4      5.9     -10.3     14.0    75
Industry                                   -3.9     17.2       4.3     34.1    so
Manufacturing                                     18.0      11.0      343     25
Services                                    9.4      1.2      11.3      48.3    0
Private consumption                        -0.2      3.9      -4.3     -2.2            0     97        09   o     01
General govemment consumption              -2.7      3.0       5.0     -4.4    -so
Gross domestic investment                   49      16.8       6.2     1486                 Exports  ->     ports
Imports of goods and services              -2.6     7.7       0.0       3.0
Note. 2001 data are prelirrinary estimates.
The dianionds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) conpared vith Its income-group aveage. If data are nrissing. the dlamond vAII be inconffete
68



Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
18s0 1980  199     199      2000     Inflation (%)
DomesOc prkes                                                                   8
(% change)
Consumer prices                                      4347 2.9           12.7    so
Implicit GDP deflator                                34,1       3.3     13.1    4o
Government flnance
(/ of GDRP includes current grants)                                              0    .       I
Current revenue                             13.8     17.0      18.2     17 5            ss    96    97    90    99    05
Current budget balance                       1.4      2 4       6.1      4.6            -    GDP defiator  eCPI
Overall surplus/defldct                     -3.5    -11.7      -6.8    -10.0
TRADE
(US$ milions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         281      126       284      364      l,e
Cashew                                      67       15        33       29
Prawn                                       32       43        66       66     1                               *    -
Manufactures                                ..       27        14       14     ,oo00
Total imports (clf)                           ..     780      1,200    1,157
Food                                                           47       87
Fuel and energy                             ..       ..       124       44
Capital goods                               ..       ..       243      410        o
94   00   go   97   90   00   00
Export price index (1995=100)                83       91        96        97
Importpricelndex(1995=100)                  107       92        86       88                 *iExports     lnsiports
Temmsof trade (1995=100)                     77       99       112       110
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980    1990      1989      2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               399      229       601       732      o
Imports of goods and services               844      850      1,540    1,511
Resource balance                            -445     -621     -939      -T79    -10
Net income                                   22      -145     -214      -228    -20 I               "      I*
Net current transfers                         o        0         0         0     4 
Current account balance                    -423      -766    -1,152    -1,007     -
Finandng items (net)                        390      772      1,220    1,314
Changes in net reserves                      32        -6       -68     -307     ._0
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millIons)      238      232       669       745
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)            32.4    929.1  12,689.5  15,689.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed 1/         ..    8,326     6,322    7,136
IBRD                                               26 0        0         0                  G:567    B. 760
IDA                                         ..     268       702       760                           ~    C 219
Total debt service 1/                          ..     57       156       176                                A
IBRD                                        ..       0         0         0
IDA                                         ..       7        16         2      F: 1,75i 
Composition of net resourre flows
Official grants                             ..     448       428       564
Offical creditors2/                         ..     165       191       105
Private creditors                           ..      20       344
Foreign direct investment                            9       392        84
Portfolio equity                                               ..       ..                             E: 3.461
Wodd Bank program
Commitments3/                               ..     105       276        62     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements 3/                            *       74        79        97     B - IDA   D - Other rriultilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       6         1         4     C - IMF                    G - Short-tenn
Net flows                                   ..      68        78        94
Interest payments                            .       1        111 
Net transfers                               ..      67        67        88
Development Economics                                                                                             10/9/01
69



Annex 11: President Chissano's Speech on Public Sector Reform
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
This summary appeared in Mozambican news service AIM: 107601E CHISSANO LAUNCHES
REFORM OF PUBLIC SECTOR Maputo, 25 Jun (AIM) - Mozambican President Joaquim Chissano on
Monday declared that the country's public sector "has generally operated with low levels of efficiency,
and has provided citizens with poor quality services." He was speaking at a rally in the Maputo
suburb of Bagamoio marking the 26th anniversary of the country's independence - the moment
chosen by the government to launch a ten-year programme to reform the public sector. Chissano
noted that there was now a generalised trend for civil servants "to demand illicit payments for
providing the services which are job of the public administration. This undermines the trust that
should exist in the relations between state and society." The President stressed the urgency of making
changes to "raise the moral and ethical standards of public servants, transforming them so that they do
indeed serve the public."
Chissano said that the government wants a public service that is "flexible, decentralised, free
of red tape, simplified, modernised, competitive, and concerned with the results and quality of the
services provided to the citizens." The public sector must be "transparent with regard to the use of
public property and resources, as well as regards procedures and the presentation of results " It must
be "endowed with qualified, professional staff, who are always ready to make necessary changes, and
are aware of their duties and responsibilities to society." Chissano stressed that this reformed public
sector must be "intransigent in fighting against corrupt or fraudulent practices.' The staff it employs
must "serve the citizens and not serve themselves." Furthermore, the public sector should be
democratised.
Chissano wanted to see participatory mechanisms institutionalized "which allow us to
identify more securely the desires and needs of citizens, and also create a space for the participation
of society in the search for solutions to the problems of development." There would be two phases to
the reform programme. From 2001 to 2004 the basic conditions would be established for "the
profound transformation of the public sector". The foundations for the new organisation, planning
and management of the public administration would be laid in this period, and some short term
measures introduced that should "significantly improve the performance of staff'. In the following
period, up until 2011, programmes with a much broader impact would be implemented. "In this
stage, the public sector should function in a qualitatively better manner than at the start of the reform,
and present new standards and values that clearly excpress an irreversible change in the mission of the
public sector -- a sector essentially working for results and for the citizens", declared Chissano.
At the top of the list of specific reforms is the "rationalization of procedures and the
decentralisation of administrative structures and processes" in order to make them "more efficient and
accessible to citizens". Much attention, Chissano promised, will be given to the system of managing
human resources in the public administration in order to improve "levels of professionalism,
competence and ethics". He laid a heavy stress on the fight against corruption, as a phenomenon that
"destabilises institutions, drains society's confidence in the state, and attacks national unity itself'.
"Corruption inhibits the development of the private sector, scares off foreign investment and puts at
risk continued foreign aid and cooperation", Chissano wamed.  "It seriously erodes citizens'
confidence in the govemment and in state institutions. It prejudices the effectiveness and results of
public policies". "The social and economic cost of corruption is immense, and weighs in an unjust
and disproportionate manner on the most vulnerable strata of the population", the President declared.
He added that both "grand corruption", involving large sums of money, and "petty corruption" that
affects people's day-to-day lives, "produce equally perverse effects". Grand corruption "diverts, to
the benefit of a few, resources which could generate wealth and minimise the effects of absolute
70



poverty", Chissano continued. "It damages the image of the country and compromises the credibility
of our state internationally". As for petty corruption, it was "only petty when considered in isolation.
The multiplication of such acts thousands, or perhaps millions, of times means that it reaches
incalculable sums".
Chissano gave examples that are wearyingly familiar to all Mozambican families. "The
mother or father of a family who must "offer thanks" in order to enroll their son at school, the patient
who is only cared for if he gives the health worker "a little envelope", the driver who must "buy a
beer" or "speak like a man" to the police in order to avoid a fine or the seizure of his driving license,
the small businessman who is resigned to paying "something extra" to the notary to obtain his
certificate quickly, all these and other situations are occurring with alarming frequency", the President
declared. But he rejected the common argument that corruption is caused by low wages in the public
administration. "That argument is false", he said, "since it cannot explain the large number of honest
staff members, who do not abuse their position to their own benefit". Wages in the public sector were
indeed below what would be desired, "but we are still a poor country, and the state can only pay what
national production allows", Chissano said.
As for specific measures, Chissano promised increased modernisation and computerization of
procedures. This would not only speed matters up, but it would cut out many personal contacts
altogether. There would be "a significant reduction in the influence of the human factor on dealing
with requests and authorisation, in collecting taxes and fees, and in other direct contacts between the
citizens and the public sector", he said. Some of the new measures are extremely simple. All civil
servants who deal with the public must wear a badge with their names, so that citizens can identify
them when maling complaints. In health units, the prices for all medical services and all drugs must
be fixed on the walls. There are also promises to simplify mechanisms for importing used cars, to
publicise the rights and duties of Mozambican emigrants, and to create channels whereby complaints
and suggestions can be phoned in. Chissano also promised "direct channels of communication
between society and the government which guarantee security and eliminate threats of reprisals
against citizens who exercise their legitimate right to denounce acts of corruption". (AIM)
71



Annex 12: Letter of Sectoral Policy
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
REP0i3LICA DE MOI;AMBIQUE
MINISTERIO DO PLANO E FINANQAS
GABINETE DA MINISTRA
N.          ./GVM/MPFIo2
Maputo, September 10 . 2002
Mr. Jamne Wolfnsohn,
President
World Bank
Washington DC
USA
SUBJECT: LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY: PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
Introducton
1.    The overriding development objecie of the Govemment of Mozambique is a
substantial reducUon in the levels of absolute poverty in the country. The fight against
poverty has been of central conoem since independence, with high priority being given
to expenditures on health and education togeher with eforts to rehabilitate basic
infrastructure. Since 1987, siructural reforms have been enacted to induce rapid and
sustained economnic growth and improve incomes through the creation of an economy
based on private Initiative and market foroes, As a result. Mozambique has recently
achieved sinificant annual economic growth rates and some improvement in per capita
income.
2.    In spite of these achievements, the country remains one of the poorest in the
world and poverty clearly remains Its key challenge. In order to provide a short- and
long-term strategic fraunework for addressing poverty, the Govemrment has adopted the
Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty 2001-05, which represents the
country's Povefty Redudion Strategy PapW. The Action Plan recognizes that rapid,
Inclusive growth is an essential tool for poverty reduction through its generation of public
end private resources and improved economic opportuniies. Thus, the strategy
combines short-tern programmes that cirectly benefit the poor with medium and long-
term policies to promote balanced. rapid growth in order to create a virtuous circle' of
acoelerated and sustainable progress in the fight against poverty.
3.    The Poverty ReducUon Strategy Identifies six priorities, or 'fundamental area of
action' to promote human development and broad-based growth.  These are: (I)
education, (ii) health, (ii) agriculture and rural development, (iv) basic infrastructure, (v)
72



good govremanoe, and (vi) macro-economic and financial management. By including
the last two fundamental areas of action, the Government recognizes that hee exists a
direct correlation between the achievement of broad-based soco-economic
development that reduces the Incidence of poverty and the performance of the public
sector. Sustained economric growth and increased welfare provision demands that the
public secior provides the essential policy environrent infrastructure, and services
responsively, efficiently and effectively.
4.   In order to improve the performance and responsiveness of the pubic sector, the
Govemment has adopted a comprehensive Pub#i Sector Reform Strategy 2001-2011.
The Strategy builds upon discete anod partial reform actions that have been undertaken
over the past several years that focused upon: Institutional reform through measwes to
decentralize and deconcentrate, including the establishment of municlpalites, reform of
the budget system, the establishment of a training progranme for civil servants, the
rationalization of human resources through a new career and remunerafton systm,
salary decompression and a human resource management data base.
Background and Scope of Public Sector Reform
5.    Govemment's commitment to widen and accelerate on-going, partal sector
reform was made evident with the creation of the lnfter-mbirgte4W Publ:c Sector Reform
Commintee (CIRESP) In March 2000, the establishment of the Public Sector Refom
Tecohncal Unit (UTRESP) in June 2000 and the speech made by the Prsident on June
25h 2001 launching the new comprehensive Public Sector Reform Stategy. There now
exists high-level consensus on the need for oomprhehnsive reform and the oommitment
to tum plans into operational acton.
6.    The overall goals of the Public Sector Reform Stategy may be summarized as
being:
a) Redefine and reinforce the role of the Slate and its pubfic administration;
b) Improve the quality of service delivery;
c) Strengthen democratic participation of citizens at different evels of govemment;
d) Decentralization;
e) Consolidation of mechanisms aimed at fhting corruption; and
f) Promotion of transparency and good governance.
7.    The Council of Ministers has decided that the reforms will cover al institutions
financed directly by the State. The National Assembly, has also resolved to include its
Secretariat among Fe insttutions to be covered under the reforms. It will kfous upon
restructuring the State so that public serwvants become more responsive to public needs
and resul-orientated. The Stralegy includes a VQuick Wins Programme' which gonsists
of highly visible measures that will be successfully Implemented in a relively short time.
8.    The reforms will be carried out in two interrelated phases. The first phase
covering the years 2001-2004 is intended to create the basic conditions needed to
transform the public sen*or. Reform policies, programes and methodologies will be
developed and refined, in some cases through implementng pilot schemes. Other basic
foundations for reform such as an anti-corruption programme and a medium-term pay
policy wil be initiated. The second phase (2004-2011) will build an the experience
2
73



gained in the first phase to viden the refonms across Ute pubic service in order to bring
about the complete transformation of all institutions of the public servioe.
9.    CIRESP, chaired by the Prime Minister, will provide politkcal leadership, review all
reform proposals prior to submnission to the Council of Ministers and monitor their
implementation. A small team of coon specialists to provide technIcal gudance and
coordination staffs the UTRESP. The Director of UTRESP will interact with all
Permanent Secretaries on a day-to-day basis and through regular meetings of
committees established for this purpose. The views of stakeholders outside the public
service will be regularly sought while close liaison will be established with inth sted
donors.
Puiorftte. and ComponenX of Public Sector Refom
10.   The first phase of the reform programme includes six main components:
a) Improving service delivery through decentraliation and insitutional restructuring,
b) Strengthening the policy formultIon and monitoring process;
c) Enhancing professionalism in the public sector,
d) Improving rinancial management and accountability;
e) Promoing good govemance and oombating corruption; arnd
fl Management of the reform prooess.
11.   The component to improve swice delivery through decntralization and
institutional restrctudng seeks to enhance service delivery at th local level, thrugh
restcwing. capacity buding and increased partidtpafon, while creasting a more agile
and capable State able to facilitate national development. It wgl include:
a) Revised lgal and policy fra#ework Including: new law enacted on local
authorities, lgislation on municipalities, regulason for decetralized service
provson, o*ent surveys, improved Iformation dissmination, simplif
commercial regulations and laws on tourism and customs procedures;
b) Institutional reform including: functional review of Govemment units and
restructuring of key ministries, revieNv of local authority adminisrative
procedures, expansion in fe nwnber of municipalities, reorganization of
distrct administration, establishrmnt of 'localities' as further tier of local
government, new forms of partcipation In local affairs, new land registraion
procedures, one-stop shops piloted;
c) Human resource development Including: training of local authority staff in
simplified administrative procedures, irnproving working conditions of local
authority staff, civil servant capaciy building on new legislation and
proodures.
12,   The component to strengthen polic forlatIon and mnioring seeks to create
an effective inter-sectoral mechanism to guide and coordinate the formulation and
evaluation of important national policy. It will lnclude:
a) To formulate the legal and policy frameworks for the policy proces induding:
manual on process of policy formulation, monkoring and evaluation and
guidelines for inter-sectorel coordinatori;
3
74



b) Institutional reform including: establishing policy analysis units in key
ministries, analytic evaluation of selected policies, inproved IT
communications within government and with the public;
c) Human resource development Including: training on pulic policy developed,
capacity building of mid-level staff in policy formulation, training staff in the
use of electronic information systems.
13.   Enhancing professionalism in the public sector w9ll pursue the effective
impementation of the nationat public administraon training system and improve
employment conditions in the pubic service.
a) Revised legal and policy framewok including: decree to establish High Level
Institute, creation of IFAPA's, Interfinkg SIFAP and SCR, adoption and
plnnentation of medim term pay policy, introduction of performance
improvement management.
b) Institutional reform including: making operational High Level Institute and
IFAPA's. consolidation of intituional base of SIFAP and the ceation of a
training fund, adoption of performarce contracts for senior staff, improved job
descriptions, review of pensions system.
c) Hwnan resource development Incduding: wide -staff training and devefopment
programmes, training in result-iented management.
14.   The component to impove fnanciaf management and accourNabty will improve
financial planning and budgeting to increase the effidency of resource alocaton and
strengthen expenditure management to increase control and accountability as well as
improve social and economic outcomes.
a) Revised legal antd policy framework incuhi: legislaion and regulatons to
modernize the financial planning, budgeting and maagement instruments,
clarified egal administrative status of each public enttty, adoption of new
procurement regulations, regular audit introduced, reform of fiscal and
customs litigation, decorncentration of Administrative Tribunal.
b) Institutional reforms inctuding: introduction of single treasury account,
rationalization of bank account procedures of spending units, introduction of
double entry accounting, improved budget coverage, gadual instalation of
Integrated financial rnanagement information system, MTEF uUlized as base
for annual budget;
c) Human resource development including: training of selected staff in use of
integrated financial management system, training of seleced staff to improve
financial planning, specialized accountancy training. IT training, training
padliamentarians in budget analysis and expenditure management, training of
Administrative Tribunal staff.
15.   Promotig good govermano    and combating comnftn will lead to the
impneentation of a comprehensive national anticorruption srtey and legislabon and
improved funcdioning of the judicial sector, legislative systems and the eletoral
administration. It w*ll include:
a) Review of eal and policy framework includin: review and redrafting of the
existing proposal of a national anti-corruption straty, enactment of anti-
corruption laws and associated regulations, Implementation of Governance,
4
75



Ethics and Deontology law, Integrated strategy for the judicial sedor, revision
of electoral legislation, sbutegy to reborm parliamentary management;
b) Institutional refofm including: creation of new and additional Instituinal
mechanisms to implwnent anti-corruption lgislation, enhanced capacity of
the judiciary to handle oorruption cases, establish data base on corruption.
reform of electoral administration and impoved voters register, creation of
inter-Institutional task forces for Implementation of proriy judicial reform
actions;
c) Human resource development intcluding: training of all civil servants In
professionalism and ethics, training of magistes to deal with coruton
cases, training of Inspecton units on corruption, pubic awareness campaign.
trining of SGAR staff.
16.   Under he cornponent Managament of the Reftrm Process the capacity of
UTRESP will be reinforced to provide highly effective leaderstip, technical support and
management at both the central and local levels. RegLiar updating of the PSR Strtegy
will be undertaken and a monitoring and evaluation capacity establihed. Finandal and
procurement capacities will be created to enable UTRESP to manage donor funding of
the reform process and programme.
17.   A contal requcret identified in all components of the Reform Programme is
buiWd    capactes and h*wbing to equip the Public Service with the technical and
managerial skills required In a modem service. Urder the SIFAP (Training System in
Public Administration) 15000 civM servants without secondary education are targeted to
reoeive training in human and financial resources management. The SIFAP WMil mainly
rely on non-formal education modalities (modular system, short term courses, distance
education) and guarantees that training Is positIvely rewarded via career progress. It is
planned to establish a complementary High Level Insitute to provide managerial training
for senior staff.
18.  In the drive towards operational efficiency, fudI advantage must be taken of the
opportunites provided by elecrnic information, data  andng and communicaions
technology. In order to do so, there Is need for coordinalion, compatibiit and a degree
af standardization between systems, equipment and user trainIng requirements
throughout the public service. Therefore, Govenment has prepared an 1nrpWmenteJon
Strategy for the Information and Communicaton TechnooAies to provide the technical
fwaework, institutional arrangements and necessawry Integration of computer and other
electrnic hardware and software. Through systems such as GOVNET and GOVSYS
govemrnent will seek to maximize the potential of elctronic communications to transfer
information within govemment and to make Irmfonaton readily available to the publlc.
Computer-based management systems such as the Staff Information Syslems and the
Financial Management Information System wil be wWdened in coverage to provide
woceible, up-o-date management tools.
19.   The goal of Public Sector Reform Is to restore service to fe peopbe. For this to
be achieved, people must be able to voice their needs and opirdons and partipate in
decision-maling. The process of establishing paterships between govenment and
stakeholders will be extended to all elements of fe publi sector. Stakeholdews, from
the national to most local level, must be provided the opportunity to articulate needs,
establish t ptiorities and monitor service delive. The govemnment's decentralzation
policy will be pursued vigorously and the capacities of lower tiers of govermment will be
5
76



radically strengthened, a number of new Municipalities will be created and a fourth tier of
government at the most local level, the locality, wil be introduced. Efforts to eradicate
poverty and social marginalisation will require greater responsiveness on the part of the
public sector coupled with deliberate moves to empower the communiy, In all Its forms,
to better its welfare and economic well-being.
Implementing the Reforms
20.   With the Public Sector Reform Straty and institutional arrangements In place,
the Govemment wishes to move as quickly as possible to implementation. As a first step
a detailed Implementation Plan for the first three years of the reform programme Is In the
final stages of preparation. the proposed World Bank Adaptable Loan Programme
together with the Phase 1, Public Sector Reform ProJect, covering Its first three years will
provide an important element of implementation finance. The World Bank ProJect will
provide signficaft contributions to the implementaion of five of the six components of
the Reform Sbttegy. Ofter donors have expressed interest in funding other areas of
reform, notabty those concemed with promoting good governance, combating corruption
and judicial sector reform. There is good reason to be confident that other donor funding
wIll be made available to enable the Govemrment to impment all parts of Kts strategy.
Close laison will be maintaned with the donor group and it is hoped that a flexible, multi-
donor bsket fund will be estblished and funded.
Coinclusion
21.   While the Government is fully committed to the Implerentafion of the polides
and actions outlined in this letter, the collaboration and continued support of our
development partners wil be essential. Thus, the Govenment Is appreciative of
the joint Initiative with the World Bank to establish a line of credit to facilitate the
implementation of the activities contained in the Publc Sector Reform Projecl.
Available funds will be drawn upon judidously, and in accordance with te
Project documentation, to obtain the expertise and equipment required to move
the reform programme forward. The Government looks forward to contirued
cooperation and collaboration with the World Bank and other development
partners so that the vital reforms to our public sector can be canied out In a
oonsidered but expeditious manner.
Yours sincerely,
Vice MiniIsbr of Planning and Finance
6
77



Annex 13: Performance Improvement Facility: An Outline
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
Outline of Performance Improvement Facility
1.     The PSR Project will provide the resources needed to implement reengineering, restructuring
and decentralization through the a Performance Improvement Facility (PIF).
2.     To access the PIF, a Ministry will prepare a PIF Plan describing a set of restructuring
activities to achieve its strategic restructuring objectives, and submit it to CIRESP for approval.
Approval will be granted following the PIF Manual eligibility criteria and guidelines, and will be
formalized by a PIF Grant Agreement between CIRESP and the ministry.
Purpose and Uses of the Facility
3.     The Perfornance Improvement Facility (PIF) will be a flexible instrument used to finance
ministry-led programs to improve priority services. The Facility will provide resources to meet the direct
costs of implementing the strategically identified performance improvement plans and key capacity
building interventions. Such plans and interventions will have a direct bearing on specific target
improvements in services delivered by that ministry. During the first phase, imnprovements in service
delivery will emphasize "quick-wins"'.
4.     To access the PIF, a ministry will initially prepare a strategic plan. Resources for capacity
building will be accessed as soon as a ministry has developed a credible strategic plan and has diagnosed
its requirements to deliver the strategy. Thereafter, funds for technical assistance and training in strategic
planning, operational planning and performance appraisal will be drawn down according to agreed
targets and standards for service improvements, as described in a PIF Plan, describing a set of
restructuring activities to be carried out by any of the Recipient's Ministries through a PIF grant.
Performance Improvement Cycle
5.     The Facility will be used to operationalize a performance improvement cycle (PIC) in a
ministry. In summary, the key features of the PIC will include:
*  Three inter-linked planning processes: at the strategic, operational and individual level;
*  During the strategic planning review process each ministry will re-examine its organization's
mission and vision (based on their respective external and internal environment) together
with policies, strategies and associated objectives for achieving them;
*  Ministries will be required to ascertain critical factors to measure performance to achieve
their objectives. They will also identify capacity and resources (professional skills,
leadership, HRD, management structures, management and operating processes) needed to
implement the strategic plan;
*  Following the strategic planning phase, an operational planning process (at departmental and
divisional levels) will begin. This process should run in tandem with the Government's
existing budget process. At this stage, Ministries will be expected to identify priorities for the
next financial year taking into account budget constraints, ceilings and external sources
available. Therefore, outputs will be related to expenditures. Deliverables anticipated from
7A "quick-win" is defined as a significant improvement in service delivery which has minimal demands for
budgetary resources and technological changes.
78



this process include objectives and targets, outputs, performance indicators, activities and
output-based budgets;
At the individual level, ministry employees, starting at the top, will discuss and agree on three
or more individual objectives that should be linked to ministry's targets identified in its
operational plan. Development and training needs arising from this will also be agreed,
prioritized and scheduled.
6.     It is anticipated that performance reviews of all three plans (strategic, organizational and
individual) will be undertaken at least twice a year. This process will include review of progress
towards achieving the specified "quick-wins" for the year.
7.     There are four distinct phases of the PIC:
*   Review of strategic plans;
*   Annual planning and activity budgeting;
*   Independent evaluation of plans and budgets;
*   Monitoring, evaluation and appraisals.
Review of strategic plans
8.     The ministry will be required to set the direction of their organization for the next three years
through a review of their current strategic plans and defining new plans. The ministry's management
will:
*   Assess the extent to which current functions and activities match each Ministry's mission,
vision and goals; identify poorly performing or duplicated functions/activities; agree upon
new functions and activities; which ones should be discontinued, and what are the "quick
wins";
*   Define strategic performance indicators ("critical success factors") to monitor progress and
for reporting purposes;
* Prepare a revised strategic plan for the ministry with a central focus on achieving the quick
wins. This strategic plan will be within the Medium Term Expenditure Framework agreed
between the ministry and the Ministry of Planning and Finance (see Box 1 below);
Box 1: Strategic Planning to be within Medium Term Expenditure Framework
The strategic plans by ministries using PIF will be within the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) agreed between the ministry and the MPF8. This ensures the
relevance of the plans.
When the GoM launches the implementation of a comprehensive MTEF in ministries, it is
anticipated that:
8 In proper practice, the credibility of a ministry's strategic plan should influence the ministry's allocation in the
MPF. Therefore, in the ideal situation, a draft strategic plan should be the basis of negotiations for resources
allocation between the ministry and MPF well before the final MTEF is promulgated as part of the annual
budget guidelines. In any case, the final strategic plan must be consistent with the final MTEF.
79



(a) Strategic planning by ministries will be an intermediate but mandatory phase of the
MTEF process. Preceding phases will include macroeconomic forecasts and definition of
sector policies and strategies;
(b) This will be a framework for ensuring a fi-ri link between public service reform and
public financial management reform programs.
Annual planning and activity budgeting
9.     On the basis of the strategic planning results, the ministry will:
* Project expected outputs to achieve during the year, together with activities required to
achieve the outputs;
* Prepare budgets for the activities. Priorities will be within the resource envelope available;
* Finalize plans and budget;
* Have its employees agree on how they will contribute to reaching the objectives. This will be
done by setting and agreeing objectives for each individual, based on the Performance
Review and Appraisal process whereby individual performance is linked with the ministry's
goals and objectives, and development needs and identified and planned for.
Evaluation of plans and budgets
10.    During this stage, Ministries will submit plans and budgets (a PIF Plan) to a central team
responsible for the technical management of the PIF. The plans and budget will be evaluated by the
team, which will have expertise to check the requirements. The evaluation team will develop a set of
standard criteria for examining plans and budgets.
11.    On the basis of this evaluation, a ministry will be cleared to access the PIF resources to
implement its PIF plan, to the extent that these are not already funded from GoM revenues or by other
donors. Specific interventions that could be financed by PIEF include:
* Technical assistance and consultancies at all stages of the PIC;
* Contract-hire of technical and professional staff to fill crucial skills gaps;
* The performance-based payments to technical and professional staff responsible for accomplishing
specific tasks in the annual work plan;
* Demand-driven training focusing on equipping public servants with knowledge and skills to
achieve the capacity and performance improvements specified in the strategic plan; and
* Work tools and equipment needed to accomplish the priority "quick-win" services
improvements.
Monitoring, evaluation and appraising
12.    During the year there will be continuous monitoring and evaluation of implementation of the
PIF plans supported by PIF in each ministry, with particular focus on progress in the "quick-wins'
targets. Monitoring and evaluation in each ministry rnay take the form of:
* Monthly review sessions where the Ministries' management provide updates on
implementation actions;
*  Repeat Service Delivery Surveys to assess customer satisfaction and other participatory
approaches;
80



* Impact assessment studies of new implemented policies and procedures;
* Financial and value-for-money audits by the Administrative Tribunal;
* Staff appraisals.
Box 2: PIEF plans, staff appraisals and performance-based incentives
All technical and professional staff in a ministry involved in the
implementation of PIC with support from the PIF will have individual work
plans derived from their respective departmental PIF plans. The results of
monitoring and evaluating performance against the PIEF plans will therefore be
the basis of annual staff appraisals.
Under the new policy whereby the traditional practices of automatic annual
salary increases and promotions based on schemes of service will be
abandoned, the results of the performance-based staff appraisals will be the
basis for determining the annual salary increments and promotions. In this
way, the PIF will support the introduction of performance-based incentives
across the civil service.
13.    Ministries will maintain adequate documentation to support the results of the M & E process.
In addition, Ministries will demonstrate commitment and learning through continuous improvement
by:
* Reporting to key stakeholders on their performance (success and areas for improvements)
with respect to achieving "quick-wins" and other key results highlighted during the annual
planning and budget process;
* Providing comments and action plans resulting from audits and reviews undertaken during
the period;
* Disseminating results to the appropriate level within the ministry and outside for follow-up
and action;
* Recognizing and rewarding individual performance and sanctioning lack of performance;
*  Improving procedures to accommodate feedback from monitoring functions.
Accessing PIF by Ministries
14.    Once these plans and budgets have been assessed and funding levels approved by the central
technical team, the ministry will prepare a cash flow plan indicating cash requirements from the PIEF
during the year, and on this basis submit an application for the funds to the Facility Manager
(UTRESP Director). These arrangements will be formalized through a PIEF Grant Agreement between
CIRESP and the ministry.
15.    The Facility Manager will make the necessary arrangements to disburse cash or other
resources to the ministry according to the Ministry's cash flow plan.
16.    Further drawdowns will be contingent on clear improved performance against the identified
key performance indicators.
81



Box 3: Link to Budget and Institutional Incentives
Detailed design of the Facility implementation arrangements will be specified
in consultation with the Ministry of Planning and Finance. In this process the
designer will explore:
*  The opportunities and framework for linking the PIC with the budget
process, and particularly the implementation of the MTEF in the pilot
ministries; and
*  The scope for availing budgetary incentives to ministries that are assessed
to make good progress in the PIF application.
Facility Administration Arrangements
17.   The Director/UTRESP will be designated PIF "Facility Manager". In this role, the Facility
Manager will be assisted by the UTRESP team.
18.   With regard to PIF, the specific activities to be undertaken by the UTRESP will include:
*  Creating awareness of the PIF in ministries through information;
*  Distributing application forms and guidance needed to lodge requests for financing from the
PIF, and verifying and processing applications for funding;
*  Supporting procurement by Ministries;
*  Developing checklists to guide the technical team in the evaluation of annual plans,
applications for financing and performance reports received from Ministries;
*  Authorizing approved disbursements from the PIF;
*  Providing regular progress reports on Ministries' results with respect to PIF-financed
activities to CIRESP.
Accounting and reporting
19.   Accounting for the PIEF will follow the Bank guidelines to ensure that financial management,
procurement, accounting and reporting systems are complied with.
20.    The UTRESP Finance Manager will be responsible for the following specific aspects of fund
management:
* Estimating annual financing needs identified during the annual planning and budgeting
process and matching them against amounts to be made available;
*  Day-to-day management of the PIF account including maintaining a cashbook and
reconciling bank statement against cashbook balances;
*  Maintaining a suitable management information system to allow for recording, tracking,
monitoring and evaluating PIF flows;
* Making authorized payments from the PIEF account to ministries and departments;
*  Ensuring that adequate financial controls are in place to maintain propriety and proper
accountability for expenditure;
* Designing standard formats for filing reporting returns;
82



* Collecting and consolidating returns from Ministries;
* Reporting periodically on fund flows for management's use and audit purposes.
21.    The regular accounting reports that will be prepared on the fund by the UTRESP Financial
Manager include the following:
* Annual financing requirements by ministries;
* Deposits received into the PIF by type of donor;
* Disbursements made by ministry and type of release;
* Allocations utilized during a period or in the year to date;
* Schedule of any backlogs, in terms of approved applications for which there is no funding
available.
83



Annex 14: CPAR 2002, Executive Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform Project
1.     Scope of the CPAR
The Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) of Mozambique was carried out by Bank staff
in cooperation with the technical unit (UTRESP) of the Inter-ministerial Commission for the Reform
of the Public Sector (CIRESP) and participation of donors well established in the country. The CPAR
is an economic and sector work (ESW) made to verify the strength and weakness of the country's
procurement policies, organization and procedures, and, in particular to: (i) provide an analysis of
the country's public sector procurement, including the legislative framework, organizational
responsibilities and capabilities, present procedures and practices, and how well these work in
practice; (ii) undertake a general assessment of the institutional, organizational risks associated with
procurement process and; (iii) develop a detailed action plan to bring about institutional
improvements. The CPAR findings and action plan will be discussed with the Government and main
donors operating in Mozambique to agree on a common line of action for any needed reform of the
procurement system.
2.     Overall Assessment
The CPAR indicates that the Mozambican procurement system has serious institutional, legislative
and manpower weaknesses which have a negative impact on the use of Government funds and those
from donors and international organizations. These weaknesses affect every sector of procurement
and commercial activities including imnports and banlcing services. The CPAR report describes these
deficiencies in detail but also proposes an action plan to support the country's objectives to reform
and achieve standards of transparency, economy and efficiency on par to international benchmarks
for public procurement . The CPAR also indicates the risks likely to be encountered in the process of
reform and the most suitable tools to overcome them through sustained Bank and donors support.
3.     CPAR linkages to CAS and fiduciary ESWs
The CPAR constitutes an integral part of IDA' s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Its recommendations
such as support of decentralization, building up of capacity for service delivery at central, provincial and
district level are consistent with reform initiatives proposed under other 'fiduciary" ESWs such as the
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and the Public Expenditures Review (PER). In
addition, coordination with donors based in Mozambique and engaged in similar reform initiatives, such as
SIDA is seen as a priority and was made part of the development action plan based of main CPAR
recommendations.
4.     Main Weaknesses of the Mozambican Procurement System
Based on national statistics for the year 2000, Mozambique has imported about US$1300 million of
goods and executed US$150 million worth of civil works. These are significant amounts for a
developing country. Their monetary value is bound to greatly increase in forthcoming years, provided
that a sound public procurement system is in place. The CPAR has reviewed therefore the
Mozambican system to assess whether it would satisfy the criteria of transparency, economy,
efficiency and accountability necessary to guarantee a sound use of public and donor funds. These
criteria are based on whether (i) a comprehensive and transparent legal framework is in place and
assures suitable and transparent regulations for public procurement, (ii) a clearly defined
organizational structure is in place in order to assure application of the same regulations and adequate
84



monitoring of procurement, and (iii) well trained, experienced, evenly distributed procurement staff
are used by the public procurement implementing agencies.
Based on the assessment, Mozambique's procurement system has NOT satisfied any of these
requirements and needs to be substantially improved. A brief summary of the main weaknesses of
the Mozambican procurement system are listed below. For a more detailed description and comments,
please refer to Volume 1 (Part B) and Volume 2.
4.1    Legal and Regulatory Framework for Public Procurement
Mozambique has no adequate legal and regulatory framework for procurement. Present
legislation concerning procurement of goods and works is fragmented into various pieces of
legislation both old and new, each of which is inadequate to guarantee an efficient implementation of
public procurement. In addition, there are no regulations concerning procurement of services, apart
of a few rules on the selection of consultants for design and supervision of civil works contracts.
Finally, no new procurement laws and regulations have been released suitable to recent Government
decentralization programs, thus effectively postponing any effective transfer of authority to the
Provinces. Lacking adequate procurement regulations, implementing agencies have presently no
access to bid documents, guidelines, procedures manuals or similar written documentation which
would guide them through the procurement process. Hence the need for a reform leading to the
creation of comprehensive procurement legislation preferably based on internationally recognized
model laws, such as the UNCITRAL (see Volume HI, Annex 1) and integrated into the overall
legislative framework of the new Public Finance Law. The new legislation, to be integrated into an
overall legislative frameworks such as the new Public finance law, may fumish a more
comprehensive coverage of procurement including new provisions for procurement of services,
commodities and private concessions; allowing for the establishment of monitoring authorities at
central and provincial level;  establishing higher procurement authority to provincial offices;
introducing the modalities for use of electronic procurement, etc.
4.2    Institutional
There is no a central directorate or tender board in Mozambique with specific function of overseeing
the procurement process, establish procurement policies and promote development of procurement
staff. The National Directory of Patrimony (NDC) located in the Ministry of Planning and Finance
(MPF) is heavily engaged in the management of state assets and does not have the authority and the
expertise required to exercise an overall monitoring and policy role. Since spending and procurement
authorities are basically the same in Mozambique, Govemment agencies and their subsidiary
institutions procure within the limits of their allocated resources. Procurement monitoring within
Government agencies is however inadequate. Evaluation committee do not always include qualified
staff and independent observers are usually absent. "Reception commissions" required by law for
both procurement of goods and works to monitor awards and contract implementation are seldom if
ever used. Hence the need for a new Central Policy Directorate, based in the MPF or in the
President's office, as one of the first steps towards the monitoring and overall transparency of the
procurement process in Mozambique.
4.3    Procurement regulations for goods, works and services
Presently in use national regulations for goods (Decree No. 42 of 28 December, 1989 ) conceming
procurement of goods and requisition of services by State bodies and subordinate institutions (as
amended by Decree No. 29 of 23 September, 1997); works (Decreto-Lei No. 48871 de 19 Fevereiro
de 1969) and consulting services are inadequate for the needs of modem and efficient public
85



procurement. The regulations presently in use lack in clear instructions to the bidders concerning the
modalities of basic procurement process such as bid opening, negotiations with bidder, price
escalation, liquidated damages, delivery and completion time, arbitration etc. In addition, there are no
national standard bid documents. As a result bid documents used in Mozambique frequently omit
critical instructions such as delivery time, contract signature, penalties for delays, etc. creating
subjective evaluations and inconsistent contract awards. Moreover, the national practice of using
approved list of contractors and suppliers without periodically updating their financial and technical
capability strongly limits open competition, in addition to discriminate towards foreign suppliers. In
conclusion, presently used procurement regulations cannot be considered adequate and sufficiently
transparent for use of public funds. New, comprehensive standard bid documents, RFPs and
contracts should be prepared and used in all competitive national and international tenders.
Registration of contractors an suppliers must be upgraded and made to follow precise, transparent
and objective qualification criteria.
4.4    Lack of Transparency and Corruption Issues
Corruption represents a serious problem in Mozambique. Issues due to lack of transparency, often
invisible to outside observers, have negative impact on project implementation and are probably the
main reason behind the resistance to needed changes such as decentralization, delegation of authority
and opening of the market to more active competition. Corruption is assisted by the lack of a proper
set of procurement regulations to which to confoim and the consequent use of non-transparent
procurement practices such as subjective listing of contractors and suppliers. Other major causes for
the lack of transparency in public procurement are the lack of proper monitoring authorities, the
absence of a Code of Ethics and of proper incentives to denounce corruption. Finally, the role of
enterprises from neighboring countries, having a strong commercial presence in Mozambique, may be
one of the causes for un-needed requests for sole source purchases and restrictive technical
specifications. This may explain why, Transparency Intemational (T.I.) corruption perception index
for Mozambique was a very low ranking of 81 out of 90 countries Recent initiative (October 2001) by
the GOM to stem out corruption through the use of the Administrative Tribunal to approve all
contracts, including those financed by extemal donors, might prove to be slow and cause bottlenecks
to project implementation.
4.5    Human Resources
There is a huge vacuum of professional expertise in Mozambique's public procurement. Until an
adequate number of professional staff is created in all sectors related to procurement, there are no
realistic chances that funds by the Govemment and donors will be timely and efficiently disbursed.
Lack of human resources at provincial offices is a serious problem undermining the process of
decentralization and de-concentration of procurement authority undertaken by the Government use of
Technical Assistance (TA) and focus on transmission of skills may somewhat compensate the
situation, but only on a short term basis. GOM and donors will have to give priority to capacity
building in the area of procurement, technical management and supervision to be able to see positive
changes in the use of their funds. Mozambique has only a few training institutions such as the
University of Mondlane, INSPU and ICM . Focused TA to the institutions with specific courses in
procurement management and "training for trainers" courses may be necessary to establish a
permanent vehicle for capacity building capacity at national level. IDA may also consider to
undertake a Leaming Innovation Loan (L.I.L.) or project in capacity building for decentralized
service delivery, with special emphasis in procurement, as presently done in other countries.
86



4.6       Decentralization and deconcentration
There is a tremendous disproportion of power between the Center (as represented by
Maputo) and the rest of the country. Provincial capital expenditures in year 2000 amounted
to 3% of total national capital budget. On the other side, provincial own revenues represent
les than 3% of total national revenues. Even though the Central Government has de-
concentrated a limited amount of power to provincial and district administrations, and
devolved power to 53 municipalities following the promulgation of a series of
decentralization laws, procurement authority is still concentrated at central ministries level,
with little or no delegation to provincial authority. In addition, central ministries have done very little
to facilitate transfer of skills to provincial offices through specialized TA [see also section (v) for
training], adoption of standard documentation, capacity building, etc. Unless the situation is reverted
(through legislation, establishment of substantial monetary thresholds for provincial authorities,
capacity building), Sector Wide Approach Program (SWAP) will have performances much below
expectations for the foreseeable future.
4.7    Donors Coordination
Interest by donors for Mozambique is high. With a few exceptions, such as the PROAGRI agriculture
program, coordination between donors has been lacking. This contributes to create a heavy
administrative burden on GoM in addition to inconsistent, even overlapping approach to issues and
lack of sufficient TA resources in the sectors where there are most needed. Better coordination
between donors is therefore a must if a serious reform of procurement has to be undertaken in
Mozambique. The Bank is not alone in taking initiatives towards a modernization of the legislative
framework and procurement regulations. Other donors such as Sweden, Norway, Switzerland and
Portugal have initiated reform initiatives in coordination with the govemment. Of these the "State
Financial Management Project" financed since its inception in 1988 by several Swedish Government
agencies has the objective the development of a legal framework, capacity building and the drafting
of new financial laws. Coordination of TA and where possible, joint financing of similar initiatives,
is almost a necessity and has been taken into account in the simplified action plan shown in Table 1,
below. Joint financing and even pooling of funds, could be considered therefore for the TA needed
for procurement reform under the Public Sector reform project, as already done for the PROAGRI
and other projects.
4.8    Performance of IDA and donor financed projects
Recent (October 2001) Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) by the World Bank and
analysis of results of projects financed by other donors reveals that implementation is far from being
effective. There are too many delays due to an overlapping of causes which represent a serious drain
of badly needed resources. The main cause is probably the lack of motivation and individual
initiative typical of public sector (and financers) bureaucracy. The other main causes are, in that
order, lack of managerial and technical staff both at center and provincial offices; lack of planning
and adequate bid documents and contracts; lack of decentralization of minor procurement actions;
lack of observance of procurement guidelines / good practices ; political interference and widespread
lack of transparency, etc. The CPAR mission considers that improvements of 30-40% are feasible in
implementation if full commitment to reform is achieved and at least a portion of the reforms
proposed (such as legislation, bid documents and focused training) will be carried out.
87



5. Action Plan for Procurement Reform
In order to eliminate or at least reduce the weakmesses of the procurement system, a reform is
needed. This would greatly benefit the Government of Mozambique. Benefits would range from a
tangible reduction of the costs of imports and civil works contracts due to more transparent
procurement practices, increased competition, but also greater recognition from the donors
community making Mozambique more eligible for continued support. The momentum is high due to
the Government commitment to improve the management of public funds in six priority areas
identified by the PARPA (Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper) and by the establishment of a Inter-
ministerial Commission for the Reform of the Public Sector (CIRESP) and its Technical Unit
(UTIRESP). Reforms identified by the CPAR have been summarized in an Action Plan for
procurement reform in Table 1.
The Action Plan, which has been kept simple in order to focus on a few, critical actions, should be
seen as part of a long term IDA and donors support seeking to enhance public procurement
performance through a coordinated program ofi (i) implementing procurement reforms, (ii)
restructuring and empowering provincial authorities and (iii) strengthening training institutions for
capacity building. The Action Plan will be discussed with Government and other donors in order to
agree on a common strategy and assure sustained support for the reform. A National Team (to be
determined by UTRESP in coordination with MPF and prominent ministries) of national experts
should lead or at least actively participate to the process.
Funding of some of the initiatives may be obtained through the Bank-financed Public Sector
Reform Project (PSRP) and support from other donors such as SIDA presently assisting MPF under
the State Financial Management project. Additional sources of funding may have to be considered for
the longer terrn such as IDF grants, Learning and Innovation Loan (L.I.L.) or even a Decentralized
Service Delivery projects to sustain long-term capacity building at central, provincial and district
levels and promote more efficient project implementation in key sectors such as agriculture,
infrastructure, health and education.
88



TABLE 1
PROCUREMENT REFORM - ACTION PLAN
Stage 1 (short term 0-9 months)
Stage 2 (medium term 9-18 months),
Stage 3 (long term -18 to 36 months)
: :P _.RisR T   A- E C   i "*;;; '*-   =*- -______r                       _-_-___  _'__.__
POTY:.                        PROP6SEDTE(GENICAL-ASS-STA'CEi .  , tREPORM       CTVBJECTIVES.
IDA/MPF/       Legislative reform - Stage I            *   To modemize, make more
CIRESP/        IDAgrant (Public Sector Reform Project) or  transparent and
SIDA           LIL/IDF grant on procurement to draft       comprehensive the public
(international  comprehensive procurement regulations      procurement rules and
consultant and  (based on the UNCITRAL model law in        practices in Mozambique.
National Team) annex 3), to be incorporated into new Finance  *  Establish adequate
law.                                        monetary thresholds for
decentralization.
* Increase transparency and
efficiency of Public
Procurement.
IDA/MPF/       Training - Stage I                       .  Improve Capacity of
UEM            Procurement Workshops for implementing      Procurement staff / Create
agencies / training for trainers courses /TA to  new Trainers for
training institutions /Preparation for IDA  dissemination of good
capacity building project.                  practices to
* Provinces/Create specific
courses in Training
institutions.
I     MPF/CIRESP     Draffing of national standard bid documents  *  Simplify, standardize and
and five main  and contracts for the procurement of goods,  make more efficient
Ministries     works and consulting services.              procurement process and
implementation of
contracts at national level.
5U     W     ,
2     MPF/CIRESP     Legislative reform - Stage II            *  Improve quality and
Establishment of a new Directorate for     transparency of public
procurement policy making and monitoring.   procurement.
2     MPF/CIRESP/    Training - Stage II                      *  Improve knowledge and
UEM            Dissemination workshops for new             propagate use of sound
Provincial     procurement regulations for ministerial staff  national procurement
Ministerial    at central and provincial level TA to training  practices.
offices        institutions (continue).                 *  Improve decentralized
service delivery of
provincial offices.
89



2      MPF/ETICA/      Transparency seminars/ Anti-corruption     *  Improve transparency in
CIRESP          initiatives/ Drafting of a Code of Ethics.     public and private sector
procurement.
2      MPF             Establishment of public procurement M.I.S.  *  Improve monitoring and
integrated into MPF's IFMIS.                   record of public
procurement activities
3      IDA/Donors/Tr   Training -Stage IIIA
aining          Implementation of Capacity building project
Institutions    to support de-centralized service delivery.
3      MOW / UEM       Training - Stage III B                     *  Improve efficiency,
Seminar to civil works contractors and        transparency and capacity
consultants.                                  to compete of national
construction industry
3      MICT/           Training - Stage III C'                    *  Improve efficiency of the
Chamber of      Seminar to private sector                      private sector in
Commerce/       (Importers, suppliers, consultants).           contractual issues,
WTO                                                            commercial laws and
imports.
3      MOW/MPF         Establish registration criteria for contractors,  *  Improve transparency,
suppliers and consulting firms.                efficiency and competition
Establish national criteria for price indexes  for national and
for price escalation formula.                 international contracts.
3      GoM/ World      Establishment of common procurement        *   Improve availability of
Bank and        procedures leading to long term pooling of     funds for TA / reduce
Iriternational  funds for TA (as for PROAGRI).                 administration
donors                                                         costs/simplify
procurement procedures.
Note:  Each of the major reform actions, included in Table A, envisages sub-actions, too numerous to be
listed in a schematic plan, which will become obvious once the major actions are started. As an example, the
drafting of new, modern, standard bid documents for the procurement of works would create the need for sub-
actions in the areas of pre-qualification and post-qualification of bidders; registration and listing of contractors;
price adjustment formulas and indexes; performance and securities guarantees; service contracts etc.
90



5.1 Risk Assessment
Resistance may be expected to any reform initiative proposed under the CPAR. Individuals
and organizations may see reform as a loss of their present authority or as an outside interference
more than a tool for a necessary modernization of structures and refurbishing of their expertise.
Attempts to reduce corruption might be seen as politically motivated or as an unwelcome reduction of
opportunities for Mozambican nationals. A risk management strategy is therefore necessary to avoid
that reform, like previous Government initiatives, would exhaust before reaching any meaningful
results. Table 2, below indicates the areas where reform measures are strongly recommended. It also
indicates obstacles to reform and the tools to overcome resistance to changes.
TABLE 2
Risk Assessment and Strategy
t Ai$ 'OErRF,R ) A1lI  s OBST -ClLES'16   -VUEFORiiN -               GR;
Reform of Procurement          Government may prefer to draft its  (i) leadership by UTRESP and
Regulations                    own procurement regulations, with  use of national team / coordination
no reference to UNCITRAL       with interested donors such as
model. This would perpetuate use  SIDA;
of fragmented and inadequate laws  (ii) new Regulations to be made
and regulations.               part of new Public Finance Law;
and
Draft of Bid Documents        Initiative to draft bid documents  (iii) final product to be made
may languish for lack of initiative  comprehensive and include
as for previous attempts.       standard documents for goods,
works and services.
Establishment of New Policy    MPF may resist reform by       UTRESP should: (i) work in
Directorate                   interpreting it as a reduction of  liaison with MFD to establish the
authority or lack of trust in their  Policy Body; (ii) strengthen
present institution (Patrimonio).  Patrimonio functions as monitor of
public assets, and (iii) incorporate
MFD staff into new Directorate.
Long Term Capacity Building    Not sufficient funds will be made  TA fmancing may be increased by
Prograrns and Assistance to    available for the purpose.     pooling funds with other Donors
Training Institutions                                         and through capacity building
projects supporting training
institutions.
Corruption Issues              No serious action taken by the  MPF to tale lead through new
Government. Sporadic actions    Policy Directorate. Ethics Code to
based on political motivations. No  be institutionalized in all GOM
monitoring of anti-corruption   agencies .
initiatives kept. No incentives
used to favor anti-corruption
initiatives.
91



Annex 15: Ministerial Restructuring
PROCESS OUTLINE
MOZAMBIQUE: Public Sector Reform
Government goal is to improve service delivery through increased efficiency, effectiveness and
coverage. The functions and structure of Government and its individual parts need to be redefined
and re-engineered to ensure they are able to respond to this goal.
This must be done within resource constraints of finance and manpower and to reflect the goals and
policy priorities of Government (notably PARPA). In the medium term the restructuring should
result in a sustainable wage bill i.e. that can be financed entirely from revenue.
Although the process is centered at the ministry level there must be a common framework within
which any one ministry completes the exercise.
A three-stage process is required:
1. Preparation of the framework;
2. Functional redefinition; and
3. Ministry restructuring.
1.     Preparation of the Framework
Three elements that may be addressed together:
* Completion of the Mapping of the Public Sector (consultants/JTRESP) to provide a
definitive explanation of the current functions, structures and institutions of Government.
* Identifying, clarifying and where necessary developing the Ground-rules9 which will provide
constraints and determinants for the restructuring exercise, e.g.:
>  Policies - PARPA priorities, role of the State vs. private sector, NGO's etc,
decentralisation (some of these may still be preliminary 'drafts');
>  Explanation/interpretation of legislation/regulations that will irmpinge on restructuring,
e.g. new Public Finance Management Law;
>  Projections of financial resource envelopes based on medium term (10 years) estimates of
expenditure ceilings for the public sector and interpretation of their implications for
Ministerial operational and staff funding. Imnportant that GoM work towards establishing
a sustainable financing of wage bill (and 0 & M) - i.e. revenue based;
>  Definition of institutional framework (i) overall coordination, (ii) within a ministry and
(iii) 'arbitration' on inter-ministerial issues.
* Guidelines/Manuals' providing detailed instructions to ministries on the process and
institutional arrangements they must adopt. Most likely two 'volumes' require on (i)
functional redefinition and (ii) restructuring/re-engineering. Should include explanations of
the organisational options available to ministries (e.g. retain functions, pass to other agencies,
contracting out, transfer to other ministries, privatise, abandon, etc). Also need to identify
training needs, costs and proposals to build capacity to undertake the exercises.
9 Preparation can continue during implementation of Functional Redefinition.
' Preparation of Guidelines on Restructuring can continue during Functional Redefinition although
consolidated Guidelines in two distinct parts would be preferable.
92



2.     Functional Redefinition
Two elements that can be implemented together leading to third element:
* Each Ministry to complete a Functional Review using the Mapping exercise as starting point.
Should result in prelirninary definition of:
>  Key/Core functions and strategic objectives of Ministries' mandates;
>  Overlap and duplication of functions between Ministries;
>  Functions that should be retained in public service but transferred, contracted out, etc;
and
>  Functions that should be privatised or abandoned.
[NB at this stage no consideration of operational structure is required]
*  Analysis (consultants/UTRESP) of Mapping exercise leading to a preliminary re-articulation
of the State's Macro Structure. Review of appropriateness and responsiveness of existing
structure to contemporary needs/policy priorities and effectiveness/efficiency leading to an
outline of recommendations for change (perhaps re-organisation of ministries etc).
*  Comparison of two exercises (UTRESP) to identify issues, commnonalities and opportunities
leading to recommendations on redefinition of Macro Structure. Tested in consultation with
Ministries (workshops for PSs or oversight committee). Agreed recommendations submitted
to CIRESP and Council of Ministers for adoption.
3.     Ministerial Restructuring Plans"
The objective of restructuring is to determine the most appropriate organisational structure
responding to redefined functions and enabling improved service provision (efficiency, effectiveness
and coverage). It may be carried out for all ministries concurrently, for priority ministries or clusters
of ministries sequentially. Should the Macro Structure adopted include the merger of Ministries or
the creation of new Ministries then special arrangements will need to be made. Suggested the exercise
should be undertaken collaboratively between the Ministry and outside expertise. The restructuring
exercise should identify:
* Mission statement and strategic objectives;
* Organisational structure and distribution of responsibilities;
* Operational level at which functions to be undertaken;
* Staff requirements - numbers, qualification and cost;
* Indicative assessment of equipment requirements;
* Recommendations on treatment of functions not regarded as core;
* Posts (and personnel?) to be retrenched;
* Training and capacity building requirements;
* Estimates of operational and staff costs when restructuring complete; and
* Implementation plan including costs requirements.
The exercise could be extended to include, for example, performance improvement management
measures, service provision output targets, policy review, and so forth. However, the scope is
probably best kept as straightforward as possible with performance management introduced as a
second step.
" This exercise should not be treated as a definitive one-off exercise but rather as building the capacity to
undertake functional/structural checks/reviews as a periodic exercise as integral part of the prospective MTEF
process.
93



4.     First Steps
Assuming the approach outlined above is adopted, then the early steps would include:
*  Completion of the Mapping exercise;
*  Briefing for CIRESP on proposed process;
*  Completion of Guidelines;
*  Defining the Groundrules, particularly policy framework;
*  Initial work to define and/or revise medium-to-long term fiscal envelope;
*  Identify appropriate institutional arrangements in Ministries (and Provinces) to manage the
process and undertake necessary capacity building (Danida proposal)
*  Strengthen UTRESP capacities to oversee the process;
*  Identify short term funding requirements and donor;
Early thought also needed on how to build sustained high-level commitment to restructuring process
to drive through difficult decisions.
94



MAP SECTION



\'cn  DEAM REP  W         UN                 .'                ->
OF CONGO  TAZA4A  (   .A'                 /  
CT05               ~~~~~~~~TANZANIA             C
ANGOLA  -A. L4KE\                                       0,A  .   A  I   i
0.304414~ ~ ~ ~ 7  >  j  MU                         40A0 M-o4 Rt 1 muoot
ZAMBIA--                                            MA     - 
NAMRIA1                                                   M.-.  ~ '  1  -  I;  <  IAl  .2'-
-AFA R                         AI                               A 0
L  _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _6.                              DE LG  DO Q-
MALAWI - . '  9-'-zK
ZAMBIA
14-                            tI-;. -14 N t
t~ C ossaci.z  -.  \  'f
- -  CRlF DUN  \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 11
kOt';l Ol'ld ~~~1  "<} I lACuo o',CAH A NAX  P EL L/
74~~         ~~~ /D AA        (A A<'V'X  SLICE  "" XNmtl'-
U14.PUN
-\ Pt   MAJAII  / --.)
~~*t/'----\-7W\ ''> 4  MOZAMBIQUE~~~~~U
/ACI/Ia
ZIMBABWE    /I      1   %MI Mbl                MOl ZA MB 10 U 1DOErto
22>     A     -~~Movpnd -  4M  r,. 'AIM/       CurenAynon oELa l2
/    N.\                            Rai corridors:)tru\
; esAvArQl /  \   / (iS 5   -A)  i   Currently nonopraioalal
1~~~~N(ABN -t_      /ORLEEDSelectduncities
SOUTH  is <SeUU^2cellUtal<  S)r) J J  --- Province capitals
I % - /s;,  ) 1 j,\AR       -  - INaetional capital ie
iN  h   AliDLDANA*|T sJ1  -  <-
A F                                Z
i  AL PlXlxy-g  i..|-s.  .,Z 
GROSOA41 3  AS, > b,/upsh e   -   0    1030  23D  .  3t00
_C\  S  /_^  g 7 RACUENE' - - < ,   ,  ,RA  -  KLOMEIERS
26'      '  NomoochS   &  W.AU ' , - ; ^ , ,  s ;  M  1. ,a  .  . ,
Ci       'SWAZILANI B  iuW  N'     F.'   'A1`
fi -20i-                                                                  20- '-ss.s, 8f
AC32'  tWSOUTH AFRICA   3X   ' 3di   334G40)   >
32'  'SOUTH  RICA ~~~~~~~~"  36   3Mai          40ad
Rail corridors:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



