Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER  H024 MOZ 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Public Sector Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 16, 2003 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H024 MOZ 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated 
 
September 30, 2003 from the Recipient describing a program of actions, objectives, and 
policies designed to redefine and strengthen its public sector with a view to: (i) promoting 
more efficient and reliable public services; and (ii) facilitating economic development (the 
Program), and declaring therein the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program;  
 
(B) the Recipient has requested that the Association support the Recipient’s 
execution of the Program through a series of financings over a period of approximately ten 
(10) years to be utilized by the Recipient for the implementation of the Program;  
 
(C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the first phase of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient in support of the first phase of the Program upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section 
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) Article 
II; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
(ix) 
Article X;  
(x) 
Article XI; and  
(xi) 
 Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement; 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant; and 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account. 
(v) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Recipient and the Association, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation
 
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and 
to be derived from it, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit.” 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Page  4
-
3
-
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“BM” means “
Banco de Moçambique
”, the Recipient’s central bank; 
 
(b) 
“CIRESP” means the Inter-ministerial Commission for the Reform of the 
Public Sector, established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Recipient; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement outlining financial administrative and accounting 
procedures and guidelines to be followed in the implementation of the Project; 
 
(e) 
“IFMIS” means Integrated Financial Management System; 
 
(f) 
“MAE” means Ministry of State Administration; 
 
(g) “
Metical
”
means the Recipient’s currency; 
 
(h) 
“MPF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning and Finance;  
 
(i) 
“MTEF” means Medium Term Expenditure Framework; 
 
(j) 
“PARPA” means Action Plan for the  Reduction of Absolute Poverty; 
 
(k) “PIF” 
means 
Fundo de Melhoramento do Desempenho, 
the Performance 
Improvement Facility referred to in Part A.2 of the Project; 
 
(l) 
 “PIF Grant” means a Grant to any of the Recipient’s Ministries to finance a 
PIF  Plan (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(m) 
“PIF MOU” or “PIF Memorandum of Understanding” means an agreement 
supporting a PIF Plan between CIRESP and any of the Recipient’s Ministries referred to in 
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“PIF Manual” means the Recipient’s manual containing the operational 
arrangements and eligibility criteria for accessing the PIF;  
 
(o) 
“PIF Plan” means any document describing a set of restructuring activities 
to be carried out by any of the Recipient’s Ministries through a PIF Grant; 
 
(p) 
“PIM” means the Recipient’s Project Implementation Manual referred to in 
Section 6.01 (b) to this Agreement, containing detailed arrangements regarding the 
Page  5
-
4
-
implementation of the different activities under the Project, including the Financial 
Procedures Manual; 
 
(q) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Association on January 30, 2002 and on behalf of the Recipient on March 13, 2002; 
 
(s) 
“Quick Wins Program” or 
Programa de Impacto Imediato 
means the 
Recipient’s program for the improvement of public service delivery, dated June, 2001; 
 
(t) 
“SISTAFE” means the Recipient’s Integrated Financial Management 
System; 
 
(u) 
“Special Account A” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Parts A.1, A.3, B, C and D of the Project 
and referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;  
 
(v) 
“Special Account B” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Part A.2 of the Project and referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(w) 
“Special Accounts” means Special Account A and Special Account B; and 
 
(x) 
“UTRESP” means Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Service, 
established and operating pursuant to Council of Minister’s Decree Nº 6/2000, dated April 4, 
2000. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to nineteen million and four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 19,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two special deposit accounts (Special Account A and Special Account B) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay 
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of 
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on January 15 and 
July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through CIRESP and UTRESP, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, technical, administrative, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months before  the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution for the financing of the Project: 
 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, an account 
(the Project Account) in 
Meticais
,
on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to 
be used for the purposes of the Project;  
 
(b) 
promptly thereafter make: (i) an Initial Deposit in 
Meticais
 of an amount 
equivalent to $50,000 (the 
Meticais 
Initial Deposit) into the Project Account to finance the 
Recipient’s contribution to the Project;   
 
(c) 
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, respectively, by the first day of 
each quarter each year, such amounts as shall be required and agreed upon with the 
Page  8
-
7
-
Association to timely replenish both Project Accounts back to the amount of the Initial 
Deposits referred to in paragraph (b) above; and  
 
(d) 
use the funds in both Project Accounts exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project. 
 
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall, at all times during the execution of the Project, 
comply with the provisions of the PIM, in particular, with respect to the appointment of 
individuals, with qualifications, experience, and functions satisfactory to the Association, 
who shall assist in ensuring proper implementation of the Project. The PIM shall not be 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the execution of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
respective Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii)  
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) 
of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of 
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether 
the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial 
Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Grant, and 
explains variances between the projected and actual sources and 
uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the previously forecast and actual 
implementation targets; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the Letter of Sector Policy for the Public Sector 
Reform Program shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the implementation of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) 
of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i)  of this Agreement have been 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the  Recipient has adopted the PIM, in form and substance satisfactory  to 
the Association; 
 
(c) 
the Recipient has established a financial management system, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association, including the development of a Financial 
Procedures Manual;  
 
(d) 
the Recipient has provided satisfactory evidence to the Association that 
FMRs can be produced; 
 
(e) 
the Recipient has adopted a procurement plan for UTRESP, in form and 
substance satisfactory  to the Association;  
 
(f) 
the Recipient has prepared the terms of reference for the first half-
year’s 
activities/inputs; 
 
(g) 
the Recipient has appointed in UTRESP: an implementation coordinator, a 
monitoring and evaluation specialist, a restructuring specialist, a governance specialist, a 
quick wins specialist and a salary reform specialist, all with experience and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association and appointed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and  
 
(h) 
the Project Account has been opened. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Governor of the 
Banco de Moçambique
 is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the  purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Banco de Moçambique 
Departamento de Estrangeiro 
Maputo 
Republic of Mozambique 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MOBANCO 
 
6355/BMMO 
           
258 1 322015 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
             Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C.                64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives,  have  caused  this  Agreement  to  be  signed  in  their  respective  names  in              
Maputo, Republic of Mozambique as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By 
 
 
 
/s/ Luisa Dias Diogo 
 
    
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
 
 
                 /s/ Darius Mans 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil Works 
 400,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods, Equipment 
 1,940,000 
100% of foreign 
 and 
Vehicles 
 
expenditures 
and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’  
5,240,000 
86% 
 
 
 
services and 
   
 audits 
 
(4) 
Training                                                 4,850,000 
100% 
 
 
 
(5) 
Grants for PIF Plans 
  4,850,000 
100%  
 
(6)  
Operating Costs 
    235,000 
80% 
 
(7) 
Refunding of 
    500,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 Advance 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(8) 
Unallocated 
   1,385,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 
    
 
19,400,000  
 
Page  14
-
13
-
2. For 
the 
purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Recipient;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
Recipient on account of the Project implementation including maintenance of information 
systems, office supplies, maintenance and operation of vehicles, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of: 
 
(a) 
a grant under Category (5) to any of the Recipient’s Ministries for a PIF 
Plan under a PIF MOU unless the PIF MOU, in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, has been approved and executed in accordance with eligibility criteria and on 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the PIF Manual and the provisions of 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent; (ii) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; 
(iii) services from consultant firms under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent; 
(iv) services from individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and all training and operating costs,  under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in: (i) restructuring its public 
sector to enable to decentralizing public service delivery, (ii) professionalizing the public 
service, and (iii) improving public sector governance. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Restructuring
1. 
Supporting the Recipient’s Quick Wins Program, which will re-engineer public 
service delivery in six PARPA Ministries, through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training and the acquisition of equipment.  
 
2. 
Supporting the Recipient’s Ministries, through the Performance Improvement 
Facility, to implement reforms in their respective service delivery areas, in accordance with 
the eligibility criteria, terms and conditions described in the PIF Operations Manual, through 
the provision of technical advisory services and training.  
 
3. 
Establishment of the legal and regulatory framework for the decentralization of the 
Recipient’s public administration, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training. 
 
Part B
:
Professionalization
1. 
Design and initial implementation of a medium term pay strategy to establish the 
priorities for raising the salaries of civil servants in line with the restructuring plans and 
within the context of revenue expectations of the Recipient and policy priorities established 
in the MTEF, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Preparation of plans to introduce performance contracts for senior managers in the 
Recipient’s public service and in MPF, MAE, the Recipient’s Office of the Prime Minister 
and the Recipient’s Office of the President, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
 
3. 
  Reform of human resources management processes to improve responsiveness and 
efficiency, and increase the professionalization of the public service, through the provision 
of technical advisory services. 
 
4. 
Assessment of the impact of HIV/AIDS on the public service and its capacity 
building, including support to increase awareness and prevention activities, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Part C
:
Governance
1. 
Improvement of the Recipient’s process of public sector policy formulation, 
decision-making, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of the managerial capacity of the Recipient’s Office of the Prime 
Minister, through the provision of technical advisory services, training and acquisition of 
equipment. 
 
3. 
Establishment of a national professional accounting organization, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training and acquisition equipment. 
 
4. 
Capacity building for the Recipient’s National Assembly in budget management and 
public expenditure management through the provision of training. 
 
5. 
Capacity building for SISTAFE to accompany the implementation of the reform. 
 
6. 
Implementation of legal and regulatory framework for public procurement, 
including procurement capacity building throughout the Recipient’s public administration, 
through the  provision of technical advisory services and training.   
 
Part D
:
Program Coordination
1. 
Capacity building of UTRESP to coordinate, administer and monitor the Program, 
including the training on facilitation and management of the reform process, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training. 
 
2. 
Establishment of an external council of advisors for UTRESP, an information center 
and provincial public sector reform offices, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent and works contracts estimated to cost 
less than $200,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers 
Page  18
-
17
-
the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully. 
 
3. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, equipment and vehicles which are available in the local market, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured from IAPSO in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for works, including the first three contracts to 
be awarded, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000, and for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
Page  19
-
18
-
1997, January 1999 and May 2002, (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for sector studies, market studies and surveys of limited scope estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount of $3,600,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount of $500,000 for Parts A to C of the Project and an unlimited 
aggregate for Part D of the Project may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. General
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend 
or waive any provision of this Manual without the Association’s prior written approval.  This 
Manual will not be amended or waived if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. CIRESP
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain CIRESP during Project implementation, in form 
and with functions satisfactory to the Association; (ii) cause CIRESP to oversee and 
supervise the Program implementation; and (iii) cause CIRESP to approve PIF Plans and 
execute PIF MOUs. 
 
3. UTRESP
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain UTRESP during Project implementation, in a form 
and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Manual; and (ii) cause UTRESP to carry out the daily 
facilitation, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the Project, 
including the PIF Plans under Part A.2 of the Project. 
 
4.          PIF Plans
a) 
Without limitations upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no PIF Plan 
shall be eligible for financing under a grant out of the proceeds of the Grant unless the 
CIRESP has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the 
guidelines set forth in the PIF Manual, that the PIF Plan satisfies the eligibility criteria 
specified below and in more details in the PIF Manual, which shall include the following: 
 
(i) 
the PIF Plan shall be for any of the types of activities referred to in 
Part A.2 of the Project as mentioned in a positive list in the PIF 
Manual;  
 
(ii) 
the PIF Plan shall be initiated and implemented by any of the 
Recipient’s Ministries; and 
 
(iii) 
the PIF Plan shall be in accordance with the standards specified in    
the PIF Manual;  
 
Page  22
-
21
-
(b) 
PIF Plans shall be carried out pursuant to PIF MOUs, to be received, 
reviewed and selected, approved and executed by CIRESP on one hand; and any of the 
Recipients’ Ministries on the other hand, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the following: 
 
(i) 
a description of the approved PIF Plan, with its budget and its 
performance indicators;  
 
(ii) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis; 
 
(iii) 
the obligation to : (A) carry out the PIF Plan with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, technical 
and financial standards taking into account environmental and 
ecological implications and in accordance with the provisions of the 
PIF Manual; (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
with simple and sound accounting practices defined in the PIF 
Manual, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
PIF Plan; and (C) maintain adequate reporting in accordance with 
the standards specified in the PIF Manual; 
 
(iv) 
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the PIF Manual and 
referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (B) such goods, 
works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of 
the PIF Plan;  
 
(v) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, 
services and training included in the PIF Plan, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(vi) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient 
or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the PIF Plan; 
and 
 
(vii) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Recipient’s Ministry to use the proceeds of the Grant for the PIF 
Plan upon failure by  the said Ministry to perform any of its 
obligations under its PIF MOU. 
Page  23
-
22
-
5. 
Monitoring and Evaluation Reports
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association, no later than March 31, 2004 and thereafter no later than March 31 each 
year, an annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, no later than April 30, 2004 and thereafter no 
later than April 30 each year, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
 
6. Mid-term 
Review
The Recipient shall, no later than March 31, 2005, carry out jointly with the 
Association, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. 
 
The Recipient shall carry out, no later than one month after the completion of the 
Mid-term review, the Recommendations of the Mid-term Review as agreed with the 
Association. 
 
The Mid-term Review shall assess the following: (i) the overall progress made in the 
implementation of the Project; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (6) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Special 
Account A; and Category (5) set forth in said table in respect of Special Account B; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (i) in respect of Special Account A 
an amount equivalent to $1,700,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $850,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said 
Categories, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR4,000,000; and (ii) in respect of 
Special Account B, an amount equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to said Category, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR1,500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
Page  25
-
24
-
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from 
the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
Page  26
-
25
-
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into the respective Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be Granted to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Progress towards the project development objectives will be assessed in terms of: 
 
1. 
At least six reengineering “quick wins” will have been implemented that will be 
recognized by the Ministries’ clients (through service delivery surveys) as improving the 
quality of its services. 
 
2. 
Three ministries will have begun to implement their plans to reengineer, restructure 
and decentralize the delivery of services (implementation to mean: structures have been 
revised and staffing changes made). 
 
3. 
The regulations required to establish a professional accounting body will have been 
approved by the Council of Ministers. 
 
4. 
A process will have begun under which key technical and professional staff will 
have their salaries increased in line with the Salary Reform Strategy and the restructuring 
plans (the number to be impacted, and thus the exact indicator, will be determined during the 
first year of the project in accordance with the Strategy, once it has been approved by the 
Council of Ministers). 
 
5. 
The new policy process by which policies are formulated and submitted to the 
Council of Ministers, and which will link policy to resources and involve widespread 
consultation, will have been designed and have begun to be implemented. 
 
