                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No.: 88961




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                     THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                    PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
                             (IDA-0240-MOZ)


                                 June 27, 2014




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                  i


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Meticais (MZM)

2003                     US$1.00                  MZM 23.27
2004                     US$1.00                  MZM 22.14
2005                     US$1.00                  MZM 22.85
2006                     US$1.00                  MZM 25.76 (January to July)

New Currency Unit = Metical (MZN)

2006                     US$1.00                  MZM 25.89 (July to December)
2007                     US$1.00                  MZM 25.79
2008                     US$1.00                  MZN 24.19
2009                     US$1.00                  MZN 27.58
2010                     US$1.00                  MZN 34.24



Abbreviations and Acronyms
ANFP        Public Services Commission
APL         Adjustable Program Loan
CIRESP      Commission for the Reform of the Public Service
e-SISTAFE   Integrated Electronic Financial Management System
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS       IEG Public Sector Evaluation
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MAE         Ministry of State Administration
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PARPA       Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty
PIF         Performance Improvement Facility
PPAR        Project Performance Assessment Report
PRSC        Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PSRP        Public Sector Reform Project
TTL         Task Team Leader
UTRESP      Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 – December 31


Director-General, Independent Evaluation                   :     Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :     Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :     Mr. Mark Sundberg
Task Manager                                               :     Ms. Sara Gonzalez Flavell
                                                                    ii


Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................ iv
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ iv
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 2
   Objectives ....................................................................................................................... 2
       Substantially Relevant ................................................................................................ 2
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 3
       Modestly Relevant ...................................................................................................... 3
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 7
4. Achievement of the Objectives ....................................................................................... 7
   Original Objective ........................................................................................................... 8
   Restructured Objective.................................................................................................... 9
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 14
   Modest........................................................................................................................... 14
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 14
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 14
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 15
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 16
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 17
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 18
7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 18
References ......................................................................................................................... 20
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 23
Annex B1. Achievement of Outcome, Intermediate and Performance Indicators after
Restructuring ..................................................................................................................... 26
Annex B2. Provincial Level Service Delivery Improvements Achieved ......................... 30
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 39
Annex D. Government Comments .................................................................................... 42


This report was prepared by Clay Wescott, who assessed the project in July 2012. The report was peer
reviewed by Nils Fostvedt and panel reviewed by Jiro Tominaga. The Task Manager was Sara Gonzalez
Flavell. Yezena Yimer provided administrative support.
                                                   iii


Boxes
Box 1. Innovations supported by the Bank through PSRP ................................................. 5
                                                              iv



Principal Ratings
The Republic of Mozambique: Public Sector Reform Project – P072080

                                          ICR*                             ICR Review*                          PPAR
Outcome                                                                                                    Moderately
                            Moderately Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                          Unsatisfactory
Risk to
Development                               High                                   High                        Significant
Outcome
Bank Performance                                                                                           Moderately
                            Moderately Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                          Unsatisfactory
Borrower                                                                                                   Moderately
                            Moderately Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory
Performance                                                                                               Unsatisfactory

* The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                Task Manager/Leader                                                         Country Director
                                                                Sector Director
Appraisal                    Harry Garnett                         Brian Levy                          Darius Mans
Completion                    Lisa Bhansali                     Anand Rajaram                        Oliver Godron
                                                           v


            IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in
                                         independent evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                            vii


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers an operation implemented
over the period FY03-FY10 at a total cost in Bank financing of US$24.72 million. The
project was approved March 18, 2003, and closed December 31, 2009.

The report presents findings based on review of the Program Documents, the
Implementation Completion and Results Reports (ICR), IEG’s Implementation
Completion and Results Report Review, aide-memoires and supervision reports, and
other relevant material. Clay Wescott visited Mozambique for IEG July 8 – 28, 2012 to
interview government officials, the staff of non-governmental organizations, project staff,
donor representatives, and other stakeholders, Bank staff members, donor representatives,
and other informants were interviewed at headquarters and by videoconference. The
mission appreciated the cooperation of all of these informants. This work was carried out
jointly with a PPAR of another Mozambique operation, the Decentralized Planning and
Finance Project.

This PPAR has been carried out in parallel with five other PPARs in Tanzania and
Kenya. In addition to this Mozambique report, two others for Uganda and Tanzania are
evaluating support to public sector reform. The purpose of these PPARs is to better
understand which features were present in these operations, and how they contributed to
the results achieved. Features examined included, inter alia, sequencing of cross-cutting
vs. sector specific reforms, design of implementation modalities for performance
improvement, strategic coordination and cabinet level processes, readiness conditions and
context, instruments and engagement, and political economy factors. There is also a
concurrent PPAR for another Mozambique operation, the Decentralized Planning and
Finance Project.

Following standard IEG procedures, the draft report was sent to the Borrower for
comment. Comments received from the Borrower are included as Annex D.
                                            ix


Summary
The objective of the Public Sector Reform Project (PSRP) was “…to restructure the
public service for decentralized service delivery, professionalize the public service, and
improve governance.” The objective was modified in a 2006 restructuring: “…to improve
access to, and quality of, selected priority public services, and to improve legal and
judicial services in selected provinces through supporting the implementation of the
Public Sector Reform Program.” At the time of appraisal, there was a high level of
commitment for public sector reform, evidenced by an ambitious Government strategy
from which the PSRP objectives were derived. The substantially relevant objectives were
also aligned with the Bank’s Country Strategy and parallel programs of other donors. The
design provided a variety of tools to spur reforms, including an innovative quick wins
program, supported through a Performance Improvement Facility (PIF) targeting
ministries that had already demonstrated a willingness to reform, and validated through
service delivery surveys as successful in improving service delivery.

However, the design proved to be overambitious in relation to the low capacity
environment, particularly when high level commitment for the reforms started to flag.
While the project was restructured and its time span extended, the addition of new
components, expansion of the monitoring framework, and addition of new implementing
partners added to the project’s complexity, which was not appropriate given the severe
capacity constraints and the reduced political commitment.

This Review rates the outcome as moderately unsatisfactory. The operation prior to
restructuring made substantial progress on the sub-objective of restructuring the public
sector, with targets of re-engineering quick wins and ministerial restructuring exceeded,
and some progress on a new structure and policy framework for the Council of Ministers.
Modest progress was made on the sub-objective of professionalizing the public service
and improving governance. Following restructuring, there was substantial progress on the
sub-objective of improving access to and quality of selected priority public services, with
achievement of most outcome, intermediate and performance indicators by the time of
the PPAR field mission. There was negligible progress on the sub-objective of improving
legal and judicial services.

The risk to development outcome is rated significant. The main risk to the sustainability
of the outcomes achieved is the uneven political commitment from the leadership. While
development partners continue to support reform through pooled funding, and while the
Bank's proposed Public Financial Management for Results Program is expected to
provide complementary support, the reform agenda is at risk without strong political
backing from the leadership.

Bank performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. There was extensive preparation
with analytical work, consultations with key stakeholders, and alignment with Bank and
Government strategies. However, the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework had
serious weaknesses. The large scope, combined with the initial three-year timeline, was
overambitious, even taking into account that this Adjustable Program Loan (APL) was
planned as the first of two operations. The scope was then expanded during restructuring
into additional areas. This over-ambition, first of the initial design, and then with the
                                            x


restructuring, strained the limited capacity of the key implementing agency– the
Technical Unit for the Reform of the Public Sector (UTRESP)– and other participating
ministries. This, in turn, contributed to low disbursement rates in the early years, and
eventual results below expectations. The challenges of addressing such an ambitious
scope were further heightened by the lack of political guidance from the national
leadership on prioritization, a problem that could have been foreseen as a risk with
mitigating measures provided for. Frequent changes of Task Team Leader (TTL) led in
some cases to weak follow-up of recommendations, and misunderstandings between key
stakeholders.

Borrower performance is also rated moderately unsatisfactory. The commitment of the
leadership to the reform agenda was initially high. But as implementation got underway,
expected support from the Government was not forthcoming, and UTRESP’s role was
diminished. There were capacity limitations at UTRESP, and in the other implementing
agencies added after restructuring. There was insufficient high quality advice provided at
the policy level, and also procurement problems and complaints at the operational level.

M&E is rated modest. Design and implementation of M&E was adequate for the original
project. After the restructuring, one of the three outcome indicators couldn’t be
adequately monitored because it lacked a baseline, and four intermediate outcome
indicators either weren’t monitored or couldn’t be properly monitored because of lack of
a baseline. In addition to these design shortcomings, M&E implementation and
utilization was weak due to inadequate capacity in UTRESP and participating ministries,
and the wavering commitment of senior political leadership to public sector reform.

The lessons from this operation are:

      Public Sector Reform operations need to consider sustainability of commitment
       from the country’s leadership. Political commitment is multi-dimensional and
       evidenced by several elements: clear enabling policies, time-bound
       implementation strategies, adequate resourcing, inclusive citizen participation,
       etc. When this wanes, as in Mozambique, this needs to be recognized and
       appropriate action taken to put the program back on track or consider suspension.

      The reform program’s ambition must fit the country’s capacity and technical
       assistance needs. In the case of Mozambique part of the program was well
       designed to focus on quick wins that would visibly generate public support, help
       sustain commitment, and can help motivate service providers. However, the legal
       reform element was overly complex and lacked adequate technical assistance to
       keep it on track. A capacity assessment with associated technical assistance
       planning may have helped to keep this reform element on track.

      In contexts where there is joint donor support, the Bank should aim to also
       provide its support through this fund. Using the same processes for accessing
       funding from the Bank as for other funding reduces transaction costs for the
       Government, and helps ensure that the Bank’s resources are disbursed without
       delay. Electing to opt out of joining a common fund can create an additional
       burden for the implementing unit and stretch already thin capacity and resources
                                        xi


    further, in addition to creating the confusion those running disparate systems
    invariably causes.
   Both factors of leadership commitment and capacity have implications for M&E.
    In situations of low commitment and capacity, the Bank needs to spend extra
    effort to select and link measurable indicators to objectives, and obtain baseline
    data at the outset. M&E needs to be owned by project managers to support real-
    time adjustment to projects through the use of feedback mechanisms, and to
    ensure that results are broadly understood, and used to widen support for reform.




                                                       Emmanuel Jimenez
                                                      Acting Director-General
                                                            Evaluation
                                            1


1. Background and Context
1.1     Following the 1992 Peace Accord and the first multiparty elections in 1994,
Mozambique started achieving an average 8 percent real GDP growth per annum, a rate
that has been more or less maintained to the present day. Export earnings have been the
main drivers of growth, particularly from bauxite smelting and titanium ore extraction.
There has also been growth in agriculture and services, for agriculture mainly from
expansion of the area under cultivation, and recovery from the devastating floods of
2000, though there have also been productivity gains (IMF, 2005, 2009, 2011). The
reduction in poverty from 70 percent in 1996/67 to 63 percent in 2002/03 came mainly
from favorable agricultural production and prices, on top of better living conditions from
the return of peace and stability. However, important weaknesses remained at the time,
including still high numbers of people in poverty, high human immune deficiency virus
rates among key groups such as 15-24 year old females. This disconnect between high
GDP growth rates and low living standards resulted from many factors, including: i) low
levels of education of working age household members, particularly women; (ii) high
dependency rates in households; (iii) low productivity in the family agriculture sector;
(iv) lack of employment opportunities within and outside of the agricultural sector; and
(v) poor infrastructure, especially in rural areas. The poor have also been vulnerable to
natural disasters (floods) and economic shocks (agricultural price declines) (Republic of
Mozambique, 2001: 2). Addressing these issues would require substantial improvements
in education, agricultural production, infrastructure and further structural reforms,
including modernizing the public service (IMF, 2005, 2009, 2011).

1.2     Although Government performance had improved considerably since the end of
the civil war, at the time of this project there were still deep challenges including low
quality of civil servants (poorly educated and poorly paid), weak accountability (no
accounting profession in the country, weak auditing, weak oversight by the National
Assembly and citizens) and cumbersome regulations and service delivery (centralized,
complex and confusing). These challenges constrained improvements in provision of
public education, health, agricultural and infrastructure services, and thus acted as
barriers to improving living standards. To help address these challenges, the 1998
elections allowed for the first time elected municipal governments as part of a reform to
provide representative government and to promote the decentralization of political
authority. These covered 23 cities and 10 of 128 district towns judged to have sufficient
capacity to execute their new responsibilities, with the goal of improving accountability
and making services more efficient and accessible to citizens.

1.3    Following the 1999 elections, President Joaquim Chissano set up the Inter-
ministerial Commission for the Reform of the Public Service (CIRESP), chaired by the
Prime Minister. The Council of Ministers established a Technical Unit for the Reform of
the Public Service (UTRESP) as secretariat to CIRESP. The CIRESP adopted in 2001 a
Global Strategy for Public Sector Reform (Estrategia da Reforna do Sector Publico 2001-
2011), building on the commitment to “good governance, legality and justice” in its
Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (PARPA) 2001-05. The Global
Strategy approved by the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly was launched
on June 25, 2001, National Day, in a speech to the nation by President Chissano.
                                            2


1.4     The government’s commitment to institutional improvements had been supported
by the Bank at the national (Public Sector and Legal Institutions Development Project),
municipal (Local Government Reform and Engineering Project, Municipal Development
Project) and sectoral (Agricultural sector Public Expenditure Program, Education Sector
Strategic Project, Real Sector Recovery Program) levels, and a further project was
approved in 2003 to support the provincial and district levels (World Bank, 2014). Other
development partners were providing, or had recently provided related support to the
judicial sector, alternative dispute resolution, the national assembly, tax and customs
administration, public financial management, decentralized planning, and administrative
tribunal. These partners included the Danish International Development Agency, United
Kingdom Department for International Development, European Commission, Frederick
Ebert Foundation, International Monetary Fund, Irish Aid, Netherlands Embassy,
Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation, Norwegian Embassy, Portuguese
Cooperation, Swedish International Development Agency, Swiss Development
Cooperation, United Nations Development Program and the United States Agency for
International Development

2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Objectives
SUBSTANTIALLY RELEVANT

2.1     The original objective was: “To support the Government to restructure the public
service for decentralized service delivery, professionalize the public service, and improve
governance.” (World Bank, 2003a: 2; 2003b: 14). The objective was modified as part of a
Board-approved restructuring December 20, 2006: “The project aims to improve access
to and quality of selected priority public services, and to improve legal and judicial
services in selected provinces through supporting the implementation of the Public Sector
Reform Program” (World Bank, 2006a: 4; 2006b: 13). The restructuring was appropriate
to address slow implementation progress by slightly modifying the objective and key
operational processes to address issues highlighted in the 2005 independent review,
putting less emphasis on the longer term goals of professionalizing and improving
governance outcomes. The closing date was also extended by three and one half years.
The geographic scope of the operation remained national.

2.2     The relevance of the objectives both at appraisal and at restructuring is
substantial, aligned with the strong Government commitment to improved governance as
expressed in the Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (PARPA) or Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper, and the 2001 Global Strategy for Public Sector Reform. They
were also aligned with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (2003 - 6) at appraisal, in
particular its pillars on building capacity and accountability, and on expanding service
delivery. They continue to be aligned with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy’s
(2012-15) pillar on governance and public sector capacity, and will be supported by a
new operation: Public Financial Management for Results Program, scheduled for
approval June 2014. A possible shortcoming is that while the Government was formally
                                              3


committed to carrying out reforms supported by the operation, some of this work may
have slowed down due to informal practices, as discussed below in Paragraphs 4.17-4.22.

Design
MODESTLY RELEVANT

2.3     The largest items financed by the grant were training (50 percent at appraisal, 26
percent after restructuring), consultants’ services (27 percent at appraisal, 45 percent after
restructuring), access to justice grants (7 percent at appraisal, 9 percent after
restructuring), and goods, equipment and vehicles (10 percent at appraisal, 9 percent after
restructuring). The balance of the grant financed civil works, grants for performance
improvement plans, operating costs, and refinancing of project preparation advance.
Components at appraisal were the following:

      Component 1. Restructuring. (Cost at appraisal: US$9.6 million) This component
       was to begin a process of restructuring central government, including
       implementation of a quick wins program and a Performance Improvement Facility
       (PIF), so that service delivery would improve through decentralization and
       rationalization of procedures.
      Component 2. Professionalization. (Cost at appraisal: US$1.1 million) The
       objective was to motivate public servants to become more responsive to the needs
       of citizens and businesses.
      Component 3. Governance. (Cost at appraisal: US$11.7 million) The objective
       was to improve allocation, efficient use and accountability of public resources.
      Component 4. Program Coordination. (Cost at appraisal: US$3.2 million) The
       objective was to enhance UTRESP and CIRESP (the Inter-ministerial
       Commission for the Reform of the Public Sector) capacities to coordinate and
       monitor the reforms and to communicate the Public Sector Reform Program to
       key stakeholders.

Components at restructuring were:

      Component 1. Restructuring. (Cost at restructuring: US$9.3 million, actual:
       US$9.42 million). This component was to restructure selected public sector
       organizations (not all ministries as before) and to reform selected service delivery
       processes so as to increase organizational effectiveness and efficiency. It also
       aimed to establish the capacity of local state bodies to implement the mandates
       assigned to them under the decentralization process. Sub-components included:
       restructuring of selected ministries, provinces, and districts, implementation of a
       quick wins program and a Performance Improvement Facility (PIF), and local
       government development through capacity building at the Ministry of State
       Administration, strengthening local state bodies, and an improved communication
       system.
      Component 2. Professionalization. (Cost at restructuring: US$2 million, actual:
       US$2.7 million). The objective was to improve efficiency of human resource
       management and to strengthen management capacity in selected public
       institutions. Intended results focused on the percentage of civil servants
                                         4


    integrated into a uniform human resource database, the percentage of public
    servants benefiting from a new salary, and on the building of capacity in key
    priority areas. This put more emphasis than in the original project on process
    reform rather than the ultimate outcome of greater responsiveness to citizens and
    businesses. Sub-components included: a gap analysis and training needs
    assessment, strengthening of national training institutes, salary reform, and
    modernization of the human resource management system--initially at the central
    level.
   Component 3. Governance (Cost at restructuring: US$3 million, actual: US$2.4
    million). The objective was to improve public sector planning and financial
    management efficiency; to strengthen public sector oversight and accountability
    processes. Intended results included the increase in the number of institutions that
    execute their annual budget through the integrated financial management system
    (e-SISTAFE), the increase in the percentage of procurement processes that are in
    line with the new regulations, and the increase in the number of certified
    accountants in the public sector. Sub-components included support for: e-
    SISTAFE roll-out, implementation of procurement reforms, establishment of an
    accountants' association, provincial assemblies, and an anti-corruption action
    plan.
   Component 4. Legal Capacity Building (Cost at restructuring: US$5.4 million,
    actual: US$2.6 million). The objective of this new component was to improve
    access to and quality of legal and judicial services within the framework laid out
    in PARPA-I, and largely consistent with PARPA-II (these are Mozambique's
    Poverty Reduction Support Programs). This component was designed to improve
    the performance of the justice sector and provide expanded access to its services
    to the population in selected areas (province and city of Maputo, provinces of
    Sofala, Nampula, Niassa, and Tete). Sub-components included support for:
    strengthening sector performance, access to justice and information, and for
    training delivery and monitoring and evaluation.
   Component 5. Support for the 2007 population census (Cost at restructuring:
    US$4.6 million, actual: US$4.6 million). The objective of this new component
    was to improve quality and availability of statistical data vital for public and
    private sector needs.
   Component 6. Program coordination (Cost at restructuring: US$1.6 million,
    actual: US$3.0 million). Objective: To ensure that the Public Sector Reform
    Program is fully understood, owned and monitored by its major stakeholders, and
    that its implementation is effectively managed.
                                               5


Box 1. Innovations supported by the Bank through PSRP
The Performance Improvement Facility supported 26 competitively selected projects supporting
reform implementation and skills enhancement. It provided an incentive to innovate by providing
financing for improvement plans faster than going through the normal budget process. It
supported improving data collection and statistics, financial management, managing citizen
claims and suggestions, document management, institutional assessments, and strategic planning
through technical assistance and training.
The quick wins program supported more than 12 reengineering, service quality improvements
that were implemented rapidly, and were recognized by clients (through service delivery
surveys) as improving the quality of services


2.4     There were two phases of reform envisaged with the first phase of this adjustable
program operation (the PSRP) putting in place the building blocks for reform in key
ministries, and a second phase rolling out the reforms more widely across the public
sector, with the pace determined by achievements under the first phase.

2.5     The PSRP provided a variety of tools to spur reforms, including an innovative
quick wins program, supported through a Performance Improvement Facility targeting
ministries that demonstrated a willingness to reform, and validated through service
delivery surveys as successful in improving service delivery, see Box 1. The original
design also provided for support to decentralize service delivery functions, establishment
of an accounting profession, reform of procurement processes, improved salaries for
technical and professional staff, and a new process through which policies are formulated
and submitted to the Council of Ministers linked to resource availability and widespread
consultation. This was an appropriate grouping of activities linked to achieving the
objectives, assuming the implementation capacity to carry them out. Five outcome
indicators were identified, and explicit monitoring against baselines commenced with the
5th Implementation Status Report of May, 2005. There was a plausible causal chain
linking the Bank’s support with the outcome indicators. The design drew on extensive
analytical work carried out since 1998 (World Bank, 2003a: 8), including a judicial
assessment (World Bank, 2004). The design was reasonably focused mainly on key
ministries, including the Ministries of Health and Education that had demonstrated
success in improving planning and budgeting in the provinces. The reform management
design included an Inter-ministerial Commission for the Reform of the Public Sector
(CIRESP, a committee of the Council of Ministers) headed by the Prime Minister, and a
Secretariat to manage day-to-day administration and coordination (UTRESP) that was
fully staffed over two years before project approval, and tasked to manage $16m in
parallel support committed by the UK, Denmark, Ireland and the United Nations
Development Program, in addition to the support from the Bank.

2.6     However, the design had a major shortcoming of over-ambition both before and
after restructuring. At the time of appraisal, the 100,000 civil servants in Mozambique
were among the most poorly educated in Africa. Only about 3 per cent of civil servants
had a university degree, with almost all of them based in Maputo. Over half of managers
lacked the necessary academic qualifications. In addition, the limited numbers of staff
with technical and professional skills were poorly paid compared to the private and
public enterprise sectors. Even if pay had been competitive, there were few potential
                                             6


applicants available, with less than 500 higher education graduates coming on to the
market each year. The operation's ambitious design required complex, coordinated
actions across numerous ministries, and at both national and sub national levels of
government. For example, the Council of Ministers decided that restructuring had to
cover all organizations of the state, rather than to take a more limited approach as had
been initially advised by the Bank. This proved to be unrealistic, and led to
implementation delays and shortfalls in achievement.

2.7     In contrast, a related Bank intervention to support decentralization was highly
focused on a strengthening a limited number of functions, building on prior experience
with other partners in areas where they had had success. The priority was on solving at
the local level development problems nominated and defined through a participatory
process. These issues were of the appropriate scale to be addressed by district
administrations comprising representatives from relevant ministries. A more focused
design along these lines for PSRP would have been prudent.

2.8     An independent review carried out in 2005 for the Government, the Bank and
other donors supporting public sector reforms concluded that although the quality of the
reforms was good, implementation had been slower than expected, targets had only been
partially met, and the impact on service delivery was marginal. One reason for the slow
progress was the distraction to reforming agencies of the 2004 elections. The new
government that took office in 2005 requested that the project be extended three years,
and objectives adjusted according to the recommendations of the reviews. The
restructuring also took into account the following issues:

      The Government had replaced the UTRESP management team, which would now
       report to the new Public Services Commission, Autoridade Nacional da Funcao
       Publica (ANFP), that was taking over from the Ministry of State Administration
       (MAE) all public sector and human resources management functions.
      The President of the ANFP supported a new approach focusing on improving
       services in priority areas such as health, education and agriculture. This approach
       replaced previous efforts that supported functional reviews developed mainly by
       external consultants, with little ownership by the sector ministries.
      There would also be a shift from monitoring based on inputs or outputs, to
       monitoring based on achieving specific outcomes and results. The new approach
       to monitoring would be used to establish and market successes and to identify
       problem areas and resistance to change.

2.9     The Board-approved restructuring added support to the Judiciary, the Attorney
General’s Office, and respective inspectorates, tools to expand access to justice, and to
support to the 2007 Population Census. Starting with the ninth Implementation Status
Report of April, 2007, there was also considerable revision and expansion of the
indicators tracked in the monitoring framework, as provided for in the restructuring
document (World Bank, 2006a, Annex 1). Although the extension of the project’s term
was appropriate given much lower than expected implementation progress, the addition
of new components and expansion of the monitoring framework added to the project’s
complexity, which was not appropriate given the low capacity environment, and the
                                             7


slower than expected progress even under the simpler, original design. Taking the
original and restructured design into account, IEG rates the design relevance as modest.

3. Implementation
3.1     Total costs for the World Bank at appraisal were estimated at US$25.6 million,
while government contributions would be US$4 million and other donors would
contribute US$15.4 million through a common fund, for a total of US$45 million. At the
time of the restructuring only US$3.82 million (13 percent) had been disbursed, and at
that stage the total costs (including contingencies) for the Bank were estimated at
US$28.5 million (US$25.9 million plus US$2.6 million set aside for price and physical
contingencies). The government was expected to contribute US$12.7 million, while other
donors had committed US$40.7 million to the common fund, for a total of US$81.9
million.

3.2     The PSRP was financed by an IDA grant, as parallel financing next to a common
fund to which several bilateral donors contributed. The Government and other donors
working in Mozambique concluded that the Bank's financial management and
procurement requirements would be too cumbersome to incorporate the PSRP into the
common fund. While the design of the PRSP called for Government and bilateral
contributions to the project, there were no actual such contributions. Due to challenges
faced by the Government in providing its promised contribution, the 2006 restructuring
allowed for 100 percent financing by IDA, including operating expenses. Bilateral funds
were channeled through the common fund Thus, the Bank and other donors supported a
common program using two parallel foreign funding arrangements, with separately
funded activities.

3.3      The actual costs to the Bank were US$24.72 million, with the reduction from the
cost at appraisal due to cancellation of funds. The mid-term review, planned for June 30,
2005, actually took place September 14, 2005 as part of a joint implementation review by
the Bank and other donors providing complementary support. The closing date was
initially extended by six months to Dec 30, 2006. At restructuring, the closing date was
extended by three and a half years, from Dec 30, 2006 to December 31, 2009; a total
project extension by four years.

3.4      The PSRP was conceived as an adaptable program loan (APL) with the PSRP as
the first of two operations. While there were performance indicators in place intended to
signal readiness for a second phase of IDA support under the APL, the Bank decided not
to continue the second phase of the project, inter alia because of challenges in program
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and political support, as analyzed in paragraphs
4.20-4.22.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1     Efficacy - the achievement of objectives - is measured separately for the original
and restructured objectives, using outcome, intermediate outcome and performance
indicators, along with other available measures.
                                             8


Original Objective
4.2     The original objective, “To support the Government to restructure the public
service for decentralized service delivery, professionalize the public service, and improve
governance”, will be assessed based on its two sub-objectives.

To restructure the public service for decentralized service delivery

Substantial

4.3     The first outcome indicator was that at least six reengineering quick wins would
have been implemented and recognized by clients as improving service quality. This was
exceeded by the time of restructuring, with quick wins accomplished in land titling, visa
services, commercial licensing, school registration system, exam registration system,
vehicle imports, and driving licenses. These quick wins were supported by a small (2
percent of total disbursements) Performance Improvement Facility, that allocated awards
based on a competitive process of evaluating bids from applicant ministries based on
agreed criteria (Government of Mozambique, 2004). The field mission was told that
these achievements had been sustained.

4.4     The second outcome indicator was that three ministries would have developed,
approved and begun implementing their plans to restructure and decentralize. This was
exceeded by the time of restructuring, with plans under implementation in the Ministries
of Agriculture, Industry and Commerce, Education and Culture, and State
Administration. These plans were developed and approved based on the Metodologia de
Base para a Análise Funcional e Reestruturação dos Ministérios (Republic of
Mozambique, 2003), prepared under the project. The results were a clarification of
mandates, vision and mission, changes to the organizational structure, and to the payroll,
staffing, and staff distribution between central and sub-national function and location.
There were also new units set up in each restructured ministry, including departments of
information systems and technology, and departments of human resources planning
(Republic of Mozambique, 2012a). The final outcome indicator of having a new structure
and policy framework in place for the Council of Ministers was being studied, but not yet
adopted. A joint review by the Government and development partners in 2005 found that
the reforms carried out had only had a marginal impact on service delivery. With two
outcome indicators exceeded and one not achieved, the efficacy of this sub-objective is
rated substantial.

To professionalize the public service and improve governance

Modest

4.5     There were two outcome indicators related to this sub-objective. The outcome
target of approving new regulations to establish a professional accounting body was
partially met. The Parliament passed the first reading of a bill establishing the Order of
Accountants and Auditors of Mozambique in 2011. The outcome target of approving and
implementing a salary reform strategy was underway, but not completed. In addition, the
                                             9


Government approved an anti-corruption strategy in 2006, drawing on a methodological
study published in Mozambique in 2005 by the World Bank Institute.

4.6    Looking at other measures, the Bank’s World Governance Indicator for
governmental effectiveness was unchanged over the same period. The International
Country Risk Group rating for bureaucratic quality was unchanged from 2003-9 at 1 out
of 4. The International Country Risk Group rating for corruption was unchanged from
2003-6, but improved slightly from 1.5 out of 6 to 2 by 2009.

Restructured Objective
4.7     The restructured objective stated: “The project aims to improve access to and
quality of selected priority public services, and to improve legal and judicial services in
selected provinces through supporting the implementation of the Public Sector Reform
Program.” It was measured by 3 outcome indicators, 15 intermediate outcome indicators,
and 7 performance indicators for subsequent IDA support. Two sub-objectives will be
discussed separately.

Sub-objective: to improve access to and quality of selected priority public services

Substantial

4.8     Achievements are summarized in Annex B1. The outcome indicator of reducing
the time and effective cost of obtaining the selected public services targeted was
achieved. There were many improvements documented at the provincial level over the
period 2006-8, as measured generally by reduction in time to receive a particular service
(see Annex B2). A related government initiative building on the work of the PSRP was
the establishment of Balcões de Atendimento Único (single service desks) through
Decree No. 14/2007 in all provinces and some districts. The focus was on critical services
such as hospital care, civil registration, criminal records management, issuing certificates,
registration and distribution of school books, right of use and land, identity cards,
passports, driving licenses, pensions, Administrative Court records, licensing of
contractors, industry and commerce, and electricity billing (Mozambique, 2012b).
However, the other outcome indicator seeking an increase in percentage of population
reporting improvement in service delivery was not measured, although there are positive
indications reported in paragraph 4.11 below.

4.9     Out of ten intermediate outcomes under this sub-objective, six were achieved, and
two were partially achieved. The planned reduction in administrative costs was not
monitored, and any increases in the percentage of mid- and senior-level professionals
assigned to provincial and district levels not possible to tell. However, the adoption of
Decree No. 5/2006 may have helped to improve the process of posting professions at the
sub national level through the devolution of powers in human resources management to
governors and provincial administrators in districts. The achievement of improvements in
service standards was exceeded in business licensing in three provinces, but was not
achieved in land registration and pensions. An 80 percent target was achieved of
registration of public servants in a uniform human resource data base, the Electronic
System of Personal Information. The expectation of e-SISTAFE use and increase in
                                           10


public institutions audited was met, although more work is needed to make it an effective
financial control system. The intermediate outcome on procurement was also met. The
intermediate outcome of certification of accountants was partially met. In November,
2011, a bill establishing the Order of Accountants and Auditors of Mozambique passed
the first reading in the Parliament. The order will manage all matters concerning the
profession, including accrediting all accountants and auditors (All Africa, 2011). The
Bank and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit are currently
providing support to the Government Auditor (Tribunal Administrative) to help with
implementation, and stakeholders reported good progress to the mission. The other
intermediate results on publication of census, completion of progress reports and outputs
on the PSRP were completed as planned.

4.10 Overall, the project worked in many ways to improve the professionalization of
the Public Service. In addition to steps already mentioned, parallel achievements both
during and after project completion in this area that may have been influenced by the
project include:

      Establishment of a Forum of Human Resources Managers
      Adoption of the Administrative Procedure Act
      Implementation of a new performance management system, the SIGEDAP
      Institution of public tenders for selection and appointment of permanent
       secretaries
      Updating of the General Statue of Employees and Agents of the State to
       strengthen labor relations.
      New policies to promote inclusion in public service, including strategies on
       gender, Human immunodeficiency virus / acquired immunodeficiency syndrome,
       and the poor.
      Implementation of a medium-term pay policy to make salaries more competitive,
       particularly for the 70 percent of staff posted to remote areas (Government of
       Mozambique, 2012b.).
      Adoption of the Single Treasury Account as a step towards tighter financial
       control
      Adoption of Law No. 1/2008 to strengthen capacity of trust fund management and
       revenue collection.
      Adoption of the new Regulation of Procurement of Goods and Services of the
       State. (Ibid.)
      Setting up of administrative courts in Sofala, Zambezia and Nampula provinces
      Strengthened state capacity to prevent and combat corruption including the
       Central Office for Combating Corruption, the Inspector General of State
       Administration, and the General Inspectorate of Finance and Inspections.

4.11 Seven performance indicators measured targets under this sub-objective that were
conditions for moving to the second phase of the APL. Six were achieved and one was
partially achieved. The first was that at least twelve reengineering quick wins would have
been implemented and recognized by clients as improving service quality (including the
six achieved prior to restructuring). By project completion, more than 12 quick wins (up
from 6 in the original design) had been achieved. Data from almost half of all provinces
                                            11


showed improvements such as decreases in waiting times for the Ministries of
Commerce, Health, Agriculture and Education. However, in a related outcome indicator
from the restructured project, citizen survey data for Maputo Municipality for four
priority services found that the average 3 percent reporting improvement in service
delivery was below the target of 5-10 percent.

4.12 In a related initiative, the Government has set up Single Service desks in all
provinces and some districts, to streamline service delivery. As part of this initiative, a
Standard Instrument Satisfaction Survey measures user satisfaction. Overall, the
evaluation indicates positive satisfaction in terms of ease of access, time required, and
adequacy of staff and infrastructure. Among the services perceived as having improved
the most are in education (enrollment and distribution of school books), justice (birth
certificates) and health (emergency services in public hospitals and outpatient care)
(Republic of Mozambique, 2012a). These positive results indicate the value of using
sector-level, problem-driven approaches focusing on discrete areas such as reducing the
time taken to deliver a particular service. This route has the advantage of potentially
delivering visible results valued by citizens, while enhancing the ownership motivation of
front-line public servants by fully involving them in the reform process.

4.13 The second indicator was that “At least eight (up from three in the original
project) ministries, provinces or districts will have begun to implement their plans to
reengineer, restructure & decentralize the delivery of services (implementation to mean:
structures have been revised, staffing changes made & funding secured).” This was
reportedly achieved in more than eight ministries by project completion. By 2011, 21 out
of 25 ministries had gone through the process. The City Council of Maputo also carried
out a functional analysis and restructuring process, and 17 of these entities had
implemented their restructuring plans, 10 had implemented new staffing arrangements,
and the remaining 7 were awaiting approval of their new staffing. In addition, the 41
interministerial commissions constituted over the period 1978 to 2005 had been
restructured by 2011 to become 18 committees, with modernized processes and standards
to act as effective instruments of public policy. In 2012, the Basic Law of the
Organization and Functioning of Public Administration (Leboa) (Law n. º 07/2012 of 8
February) was adopted to rationalize the creation and administration of governmental
bodies. (Republic of Mozambique, 2012a).

4.14 The Government expressed the view that the functional reviews carried out were
helpful for organizational alignment and deconcentration, but not the most effective way
of improving service delivery, which required other management initiatives and systems
with a focus on user satisfaction (World Bank, 2010: 50). However, the PSRP
restructuring may have contributed to service delivery improvements recorded in Annex
2B.

4.15 The next indicator had the target of setting up an operational professional
accounting body. This was partially met as discussed above. Another indicator had the
target that a new salary policy would be approved by the Council of Ministers, and be
progressively implemented – this was achieved. A new medium term salary policy was
approved by the Council of Ministers in 2008, and started implementation with a salary
decompression in 2009, which has been assessed consistent with medium term fiscal
                                             12


sustainability. The new salary policy rationalizes salary scales across ministries, improves
incentives for qualifications, responsibility, experience, and staff mobility, and
modernizes pension benefits (World Bank, 2012c). Intermediate outcomes concerning
the integrated electronic financial management system (e-SISTAFE) are relevant here.
The e-SISTAFE has been rolled out to all ministries at the central and provincial levels,
50 out of 128 districts and in about 29 autonomous institutions. In 2010, 18 percent of
salaries were being paid through a biometric database that is part of the system.

4.16 The field mission found that e-SISTAFE was operational in 6 of 12 districts in
Tete Province. Where operational and working properly, the system provides weekly,
granular updates on expenditures. One technical advisor interviewed stated that this new
level of transparency within government can provide better reporting to development
partners than was provided previously by ring-fenced systems.

4.17 Another indicator had the target that a new structure and policy framework would
be in place for the Council of Ministers, was achieved. The decision making process now
includes Technical Advisory Councils, drawing on empirical data supported by
appropriate information systems. There is also a strengthened role for permanent
secretaries in directing sectoral policies, complementing the political role of the minister
(Republic of Mozambique, 2012b). The final two indicators were not part of the original
operation. The sixth, that the three personnel databases would be integrated, has been
achieved, with a biometric database discussed above being used for salary payments. The
final indicator had the target of completing the 2007 Population Census, and this was
achieved.

4.18 To summarize, after the project restructuring, one out of two outcome indicators
were achieved, and most intermediate results and performance indicators were achieved
or partially achieved. In some cases, achievement took place after project completion, but
there is a plausible link between support from the operation and the results achieved.
Based on all the above considerations, IEG rates the efficacy of achievement of the
restructured objective as substantial.

Sub objective: to improve legal and judicial services in selected provinces

Negligible

4.19 The performance of this sub-objective is also summarized in Annex B1. The
various expected outcomes were either not met, or could not be measured. Some other
indications are: Mozambique’s “strength of legal rights index” is rated 2 out of 10,
indicating weak protection for legal rights of borrowers and lenders in collateral and
bankruptcy laws (World Bank, 2012a: 11), and there has been no improvement since
2005. This compares to a sub-Saharan African (developing country) average of 5.8, A
previous evaluation found that "Judicial sections for commercial disputes were not
established as scheduled under the Bank’s strategy. Neither the legal framework nor the
efficiency of courts in resolving business disputes improved. The government did not
revise all the codes, but the number of cases sentenced increased." (IEG, 2010: xiv) This
was despite support from eight PSRCs over the period 2004 to 2012 and a parallel Bank
project, the Economic Management and Private Sector Operation that supported the
                                            13


completion of a strategic plan for legal and judicial reform that incorporated the strategic
plans of the four branches (Ministry of Justice, Attorney- General, Supreme Court, and
Administrative Court). There were also measures supported by the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Credits (PRSCs) (Ibid: 56). The field mission found that a key remaining
challenge in the justice sector was the failure to adjudicate cases within the legally
mandated time. This problem is caused by, inter alia, the growth in the number of cases,
weak capacity of judges, and inadequate court space and bailiff assistance. A justice
sector team is currently in the process of gathering baseline information on caseloads, the
presence of judges and infrastructure capacities, that can be used as the basis for
planning, budgeting for, and monitoring targeted improvements in case adjudication. This
work is being supported by the Bank, see World Bank, 2012b.

Contextual factors that may have affected achievement

4.20 Informants suggested to the field mission possible reasons to explain the pattern
of achievements under the operation. Government support for the reform initiatives may
have been spurred on initially by three key factors. First, Frelimo won the 1999 by a very
close margin over the second place party: Renamo won 48 percent of the presidential
vote, and 39 percent of the parliamentary vote. This gave the Frelimo Party’s reform
wing credibility in calling for improving public services. Even the party’s conservative
wing supported the reforms to avoid risking future electoral defeat in the next election.
Second, public sector reform was popular with Mozambique’s donors. Between 2002 and
2003 there was a sharp decline in aid disbursements from all donors, from $2.2b to $1.0b.
While 2002 had seen unusually large aid flows, aid disbursements in 2003 were even a
bit lower than in 1995, in part because Mozambique was losing its “post conflict” aid
premium. As a result, the government was willing to support donor priorities in order to
get more aid.

4.21 Mozambique has a democratic political system (rated partially free, 3.5 out of 7
by Freedom House). However, since 1999 it has taken a smaller and smaller fraction of
the population to win an election because of declining support for opposition parties. In
the latest, 2009 election, for example, the second largest (RENAMO) party won a total of
3 percent of the population (8 per cent of voters). This is an example where only a small
number of votes (i.e. one more than 8 percent of the electorate) are needed to defeat the
opposition. In such settings, the most effective political strategy may be to provide
mainly private benefits such as targeted tax exemptions, opportunities for rent seeking,
and patronage jobs to the most loyal supporters rather than public goods benefiting the
larger population (Bueno de Mesquita, 2004). These conditions have not changed in more
recent years. In the Economic Intelligence Unit’s democracy index, Mozambique has
fallen by eight places relative to other countries in the period 2008-2011.

4.22 Thus, informants suggested that at the time of appraisal the government may have
wanted to support improved public services to increase its electoral support, and in order
to stop and reverse the decline in foreign aid disbursements. As the ruling party got
more confident about electoral majorities and aid flows, the Government may have
decided to slow down implementation of politically sensitive commitments. While
FRELIMO leader Armando Guebuza made a campaign pledge to address corruption,
crime and poverty, leading to his victory as President in the 2004 election,
                                            14


implementation has lagged. There have been many improvements in bureaucratic
processes supported by PSRP and related efforts, but little change in actual governance
outcomes as measured by independent observers. There has been also little change in
corresponding poverty outcomes, with Mozambique rated 185 out of 187 on the 2012
Human Development Index.

4.23 Overall, the government has broadly succeeded in defending its core, strategic
interests. Electoral majorities have increased, and aid increased to US$2.0b in 2009 and
2010. Aid as a proportion of total expenditures reached a peak of 53 percent in 2009, but
has since declined to 36 percent in 2011 (IMF, 2011) due largely to the expansion of the
natural resources economy.

5. Efficiency
Modest
5.1     Neither the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) nor the restructuring document
provides a cost benefit analysis summary, and the ICR lacked any discussion on
efficiency. The field mission was unable to find in the project file any evidence of design
or implementation features intended to achieve value for money, other than standard
procurement provisions such as the one that consulting service contracts costing more
than US$100,000 for firms would be awarded through quality and cost based selection
method (smaller contracts were awarded based on consultant qualification only).

5.2      However, there were features of the design and implementation that may have
reduced efficiency. The fact that project completion took more than twice the time
originally planned resulted from an overly ambitious set of objectives in light of the weak
capacity of participating Government agencies, leading to delays and limited
achievement of intended outputs, monitoring and evaluation. Disbursement delays in the
initial phase of implementation were also caused by the lack of counterpart funds
(addressed after restructuring by allowing PSRP to fund 100 percent of costs). The over-
ambition of the program with its non-prioritized agenda, and lack of political guidance
from senior levels of government, overwhelmed UTRESP with an agenda too large to
cover efficiently. There were institutional changes to address these issues (new UTRESP
structure and reporting arrangements), but project efficiency continued to suffer from the
limited capacity and political influence of UTRESP staff, and the lack of higher level
guidance. The structuring of the operation as separate from the multi-donor Common
Funds also reduced efficiency. The Bank’s Administrative requirements were viewed as
relatively cumbersome, so UTRESP gave priority to funding activities using the Common
Funds rather than the PSRP.

6. Ratings
Outcome
Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                            15


6.1     While the objectives before and after restructuring were substantially relevant, the
design was only modestly relevant before and after restructuring. While there were many
positive design features, the design at appraisal proved overambitious in such a low
capacity environment, particularly when high level commitment for the reforms started to
flag. The restructuring added to the complexity, making it even more difficult to achieve
the objectives in the allotted time. The operation prior to restructuring made substantial
progress on the sub-objective of restructuring the public sector, with targets of re-
engineering quick wins and ministerial restructuring exceeded, and some progress on a
new structure and policy framework for the Council of Ministers. Modest progress was
made on the sub-objective of professionalizing the public service and improving
governance. Following restructuring, there was substantial progress on the sub-objective
of improving access to and quality of selected priority public services, with achievement
of most outcome, intermediate and performance indicators. There was negligible progress
on the sub-objective of improving legal and judicial services.

6.2     Taking into account the substantial rating on relevance of objectives, the modest
rating on design relevance and efficiency, and the uneven achievements during both
periods, IEG rates the outcome as Moderately Unsatisfactory. This has been upgraded
from the unsatisfactory rating in the ICR Review because of achievements made since
project completion.

Risk to Development Outcome
Significant

6.3     Although the Government’s Public Sector Reform program ended in 2011, it is
being continued through the Plano Estratégico de Desenvolvimento da Administração
Pública (2013/2025), , which intends to deepen reforms on professionalization of the
state, decentralization, improving service delivery, ministry restructuring, enhanced
integrity, technology innovation, and enhanced monitoring, evaluation and public
communication. For an action plan through 2014 in these areas, including a detailed
monitoring framework and assignment of responsibilities, see Government of
Mozambique, 2012b.

6.4     The main risk to the continuation of reforms, and the sustainability of the
outcomes achieved is the uncertain political commitment from the leadership. While
public sector reforms were clearly a priority in the early 2000s, there was less
involvement from the top political leadership in successive years, and not enough
guidance to civil servants carrying out the reforms on strategic prioritization. While
development partners continue to support reform through pooled funding, and while the
Bank's proposed Public Financial Management for Results Program is expected to
provide complementary support, the reform agenda is at h risk without strong political
backing and priority setting from the leadership. Taking these factors into account, risk to
development is rated significant. This has been upgraded from the high rating in the ICR
Review because of progress made since project completion.

6.5    Going forward, the mission was told that the expected sharp increase in natural
resource revenues over the next decade could heightens the risk, as it could further reduce
                                             16


the need for political elites to motivate people to create wealth through provision of
public goods such as rule of law, political freedom and education, and further increase the
risk of corruption. "Dutch disease" effects could also lead to currency appreciation,
unsustainable increase in inefficient public spending, price increases in non-traded goods,
and current account deficits.

Bank Performance
Moderately Unsatisfactory

6.6     Preparation prior to appraisal was extensive, with extensive analytical work,
consultations with key stakeholders, and alignment with a high-profile Government
reform initiative. The Bank worked with many development partners in preparing the
project, and in jointly funding the Government’s Public Sector Reform Secretariat
(UTRESP); the development partners also worked in parallel to support complementary
reforms through a common fund arrangement. However, there were significant design
weaknesses, including an M&E framework missing some necessary baselines, and the
lack of operational manuals at the time of project effectiveness. Although the Bank
argued that the restructuring of Government ministries should start with a two key
ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, the Government felt
politically that the restructuring had to cover all ministries at the same time. This large
scope, combined with the initial three-year timeline, was overambitious, and the
incumbent risks were not mitigated properly.

6.7     This area of work was scaled back in some respects during project restructuring;
with a more practical approach of having the targeted ministries design and carry out the
reforms, rather than giving the responsibility to UTRESP. However, the scope was then
expanded into additional areas including a legal capacity building and census
components, which lacked synergy with the rest of the project. This over-ambition, first
of the initial design, and then with the restructuring, strained the limited capacity of
UTRESP, and contributed to low disbursement rates in the early years, and eventual
results below expectations. While the M&E framework was expanded with restructuring,
there were still missing baselines, and some indicators lacked quantified targets. The
challenges of addressing such an ambitious scope were further heightened by the lack of
political guidance from the country’s political leadership on prioritization, which could
have been foreseen as a risk and with mitigating measures put forward. Based on the
above, IEG rates quality of entry as moderately unsatisfactory.

6.8     There were two supervision missions per year on average, and informative ISRs
were completed with realistic ratings, and that identified implementation issues for
management attention. A shortcoming was the frequent changes of TTLs (five TTLs in
all over the period 2003-2009), leading in some cases to weak follow-up of
recommendations, and misunderstandings with key stakeholders. There should have also
been greater attention paid to ensuring that all indicators were being properly monitored.
The preference of Government for drawing on the multi-donor common fund rather than
the Bank project contributed to the low initial disbursement from the Bank project. While
supervision reports highlighted weaknesses in the M&E framework on numerous
                                            17


occasions, the weaknesses persisted after restructuring. Based on the above, IEG rates
supervision as moderately unsatisfactory.

6.9   Taking all these considerations into account, IEG rates overall Bank Performance
as moderately unsatisfactory.

Borrower Performance
Moderately unsatisfactory

6.10 During the period of project preparation, there was no question of the seriousness
of the commitment of the leadership to the reform agenda. The UTRESP director had
excellent access to the Prime Minister, and the Ministry of Finance was also broadly
supportive (although less so on pay reform). The political leadership was very involved
initially. As discussed above, one consequence of this was a decision by the Council of
Ministers that the restructuring had to cover all organizations directly or indirectly
financed by the state, which went against the preferences of the Bank to start with a more
limited approach. This strained UTRESP’s limited capacity, on top of the need to build
relations with a new Prime Minister in 2005. (ISR2) As implementation got underway,
there was a lack of clear guidance from the political leadership on key political
objectives, priorities and sequencing of the reform agenda. In addition, the 15 percent
share of counterpart funds initially agreed with IDA were not provided as expected for
operating expenses of UTRESP and payment of taxes, contributing to disbursement
delays. UTRESP’s role was further diminished by the change in the overall structure of
the reform program, moving UTRESP from the Inter-ministerial Commission for the
Reform of the Public Sector (CIRESP), which reported directly to the President, to the
National Agency for the Public Service, a ministry reporting to Cabinet. Based on the
above, IEG rates Government performance as moderately unsatisfactory.

6.11 The implementing agency performance was mixed. When first constituted,
UTRESP was the Secretariat of CIRESP, and thus well connected to policy making at the
highest level. However, as implementation proceeded, UTRESP had to focus more on
procurement and other administrative matters, leaving little time for it to function as an
advisor to the policy level of government. UTRESP also was disrupted by having four
project directors over the life of the project, and had problems in hiring additional staff
with needed skills due to the limited pool of qualified professionals in Mozambique. The
result was that insufficient high quality advice was provided at the policy level,
contributing to the lack of a focused and coherent approach to reform policy
conceptualization and implementation. The other implementing agencies added at
restructuring also exhibited a mixed performance. While the National Institute of
Statistics had a focused work plan and generally performed well, the Judicial Training
Center and Ministry of State Administration (MAE) both had procurement problems
leading to delays and complaints.

6.12 There were also reported tensions between UTRESP and implementing ministries.
For example, UTRESP had no justice expert on its staff for the first year of
implementation. Subsequently, progress in the justice sector was slow because the
Ministry of Justice lacked the capacity to draw up plans so that funds could be accessed,
                                             18


and UTRESP didn’t help to build such capacity. Based on the above, IEG rates
implementing agency performance as moderately unsatisfactory.

6.13 Taking all these considerations into account, IEG rates overall Borrower
Performance as moderately unsatisfactory.

Monitoring and Evaluation
Modest

6.14 At appraisal, the five outcome indicators were reasonable measures of the overall
objective, were measurable, and were monitored in regular ISRs. At restructuring, the
indicators used were also reasonable measures of the revised objective. However, one of
the three outcome targets couldn’t be adequately monitored because it lacked a baseline,
and four out of 13 intermediate outcome targets either weren’t monitored or couldn’t be
properly monitored because of lack of a baseline. In addition to these design
shortcomings, M&E implementation was weak due to low capacity in UTRESP and
participating ministries, and the wavering commitment of senior political leadership to
public sector reform.

7. Lessons
7.1     Public Sector Reform Public Sector Reform operations need to consider
sustainability of commitment from the country’s leadership. Political commitment is
multi-dimensional and evidenced by several elements: clear enabling policies, time-
bound implementation strategies, adequate resourcing, inclusive citizen participation, etc.
When this wanes, as in Mozambique, this needs to be recognized and appropriate action
taken to put the program back on track or consider suspension.

7.2     The reform program’s ambition must fit the country’s capacity and technical
assistance needs. In the case of Mozambique part of the program was well designed to
focus on quick wins that would visibly generate public support, help sustain commitment,
and can help motivate service providers. However, the legal reform element was overly
complex and lacked adequate technical assistance to keep it on track. A capacity
assessment with associated technical assistance planning may have helped to keep this
reform element on track.

7.3     In contexts where there is joint donor support, the Bank should aim to also
provide its support through this fund. Using the same processes for accessing funding
from the Bank as for other funding reduces transaction costs for the Government, and
helps ensure that the Bank’s resources are disbursed without delay. Electing to opt out of
joining a common fund can create an additional burden for the implementing unit and
stretch already thin capacity and resources further, in addition to creating the confusion
that running disparate systems invariably causes.

7.4     Both factors of leadership commitment and capacity have implications for M&E.
In situations of low commitment and capacity, the Bank needs to spend extra effort to
select and link measurable indicators to objectives, and obtain baseline data at the outset.
                                         19


M&E needs to be owned by project managers to support real-time adjustment to projects
through the use of feedback mechanisms, and to ensure that results are broadly
understood, and used to widen support for reform.
                                                   20


References
All Africa. 2011. Mozambique: Assembly Passes Bill on Accountants and Auditors.
         http://allafrica.com/stories/201111040155.html
De Renzio, Paolo, and Joseph Hanlon. 2007. Contested Sovereignty in Mozambique: The Dilemmas of Aid
        Dependence. GEG Working Paper 2007/25. Oxford: Oxford University. Accessed 15 October,
        2012. http://www.globaleconomicgovernance.org/wp-content/uploads/Derenzio percent20and
        percent20Hanlon_Mozambique percent20paper percent20rev percent20120107.pdf
De Tollenaere, M. 2006. Democracy Assistance to Post-Conflict Mozambique: Intentions and Outcomes.
        Working Paper 37. Netherlands Institute of International Relations.
Independent Evaluation Group. 2010. Mozambique Country Program Evaluation. Washington, DC: World
        Bank.
Imspeçao Geral das Finanças. 2009. Audotoria de Desempenho do Sector da Justiça, Relatorio Final,
        Março. Maputo.
International Monetary Fund. 2005. Republic of Mozambique: 2009 Article IV Consultation, Fourth
         Review Under the Policy Support Instrument, and Request for a Twelve-Month Arrangement
         Under the Exogenous Shocks Facility—Staff Report. Washington, DC.
_____. 2009. Republic of Mozambique: 2005 Article IV Consultation, Second Review Under the Three-
        Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, Request for Waiver of
        Performance Criteria, and Modification of Performance Criteria—Staff Report. Washington, DC:
        International Monetary Fund.
_____. 2011. Republic of Mozambique: Staff Report for the 2011 Article IV Consultation, Second Review
        Under the Policy Support Instrument, and Request for Modification of Assessment Criteria—Staff
        Report. Washington, DC: International Monetary Fund.
Bueno de Mesquita, Bruce, Alastair Smith, Randolph M. Siverson, and James D. Morrow. 2004.
        Forecasting Policy Futures and the Logic of Political Survival. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
Plank, D. 1993. Aid, Debt and the End of Sovereignty: Mozambique and Its Donors. Journal of Modern
        African Studies 31 (3): 407-430.
Republic of Mozambique. 2001. Action Plan for the Reduction of Absolute Poverty (2001-2005) (PARPA).
        Maputo: Government of Mozambique. Accessed 7 September, 2012 at
        http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTPRS1/Resources/Country-Papers-and-
        JSAs/Mozambique_PRSP.pdf
_____. 2003. Metodologia de Base da Análise Funcional e Reestruturação dos Ministérios. Maputo:
        Comité Inter-ministerial da Reforma do Sector Público (CIRESP).
_____. 2004. Operations Manual for the Performance Improvement Fund (PIF)-[Draft 1]. Maputo: Unidade
        Técnica da Reforma do Sector Público (UTRESP).
_____. 2012a. Análise do Balanço da Implemteação da Restruturação Ministerial no Quadro da Rsp (2001-
        2011). Maputo: Ministério da Função Pública. Unidade Técnica da Reforma do Sector Público.
_____. 2012b. Modernizar O Sector Público - Para Servir Cada Vez Melhor o Cidadão. Maputo: Ministério
        da Função Pública.
Republic of Mozambique, International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) and Purdue University.
        2004. Poverty and Well-Being in Mozambique: The Second National Assessment (2002-2003).
        Maputo: Directorate of Planning and Budget, Ministry of Planning and Finance Economic
        Research Bureau, Ministry of Planning and Finance, International Food Policy Research
        Institute, Purdue University. http://www.sarpn.org/documents/d0000777/P880-
        Mozambique_032004.pdf
                                                   21

Sal & Caldeira. 2008. Relatorio de Projecto – Versao Final, Avaliacao Financeira da Versao Preliminar do
        Plano Estratégico Integrado do Sector da Justiça & Diagnostico do Sistema da Gestao Financera
        num conjunto seleccionado des Instituiçoes do Sector da Justiça. Maputo
World Bank. 2003a. “Project Appraisal Document for Public Sector Reform Program.” Washington, DC.
_____. 2003b. “Development Grant Agreement for Public Sector Reform Program.” Washington, DC.
_____. 2006a. “Memorandum And Recommendation Of The President Of The International Development
        Association To The Executive Directors For The Proposed Restructuring Of The Public Sector
        Reform Project In Support Of The Public Sector Reform Program For The Republic Of
        Mozambique.” Washington, DC.
_____. 2006b. “Amendment to the Development Grant Agreement for Public Sector Reform Program.”
        Washington, DC.
_____. 2010. “Implementation Completion and Results Report for Public Sector Reform Project in Support
        of the First Phase of the Public Sector Reform Program.” Washington, DC.
_____2012a. “Public Financial Management for Results Program.” Program-For-Results Information
       Document. Washington, DC.
_____. 2012b. “Program Document For A Proposed Credit In The Amount Of SDR 71.7 Million (US$110
        Million Equivalent) To The Republic Of Mozambique For An Eighth Poverty Reduction Support
        Credit Operation.” Washington, DC
_____. 2014. “Project Performance Assessment Report for Decentralized Planning and Finance Project.”
        Washington, DC.
World Bank and IFC. 2012a. “Doing Business, 2012. Mozambique.” Washington, DC.
                                                   23


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE: PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROJECT – P072080
(LOAN 0240-MOZ)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                               Appraisal               Actual or           Actual as percent of
                                               estimate             current estimate        appraisal estimate
Total project costs                               25.60                  24.72                     97.00
Loan amount                                       25.60                  28.07                    109.65
Cancellation                                      0.00                   1.18                       0.00


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                        FY03        FY04        FY05        FY06         FY07          FY08      FY09       FY10
Appraisal estimate
                         5.80       15.30       22.70       25.60        25.60         25.60     25.60      25.60
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)            0.00       1.280        1.94        3.16         9.35         20.52     24.77      28.071
Actual as percent
                         0.00       8.390        8.55       12.36        36.53         80.75     96.75      109.65
of appraisal
Date of final disbursement: May 2010


Project Dates
                                                            Original                             Actual
Initiating memorandum                                     09/28/2000                           06/05/2001
Negotiations                                              10/31/2001                           05/30/2002
Board approval                                            04/27/2001                           03/18/2003
Signing                                                   05/16/2003                           05/16/2003
Effectiveness                                             08/20/2003                           08/20/2003
Closing date                                              06/30/2006                           12/31/2009




1
 This disbursement amount from the Bank’s Client Connection system is different from the amount cited in the
ICR, as reported in the table above this one. IEG requested an explanation, but the project team was unable to
explain.
                                              24                                       ANNEX A


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
      Stage of Project Cycle                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                            No. of staff weeks          USD Thousands (including
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)
 Lending
                FY01                                 17                             56.09
                FY02                                 27                            160.38
                FY03                                 20                             94.09
                               Total:                64                            310.56
Supervision/ICR
                FY03                                  9                             43.31
                FY04                                 30                            134.44
                FY05                                 42                            117.04
                FY06                                 47                            166.18
                FY07                                 23                            179.31
                FY08                                 55                            292.00
                FY09                                 44                            203.66
                FY10                                 25                            132.50
                               Total:               275                          1,268.44


Task Team Members
                                                                               Responsibility/
         Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Harry Garnett                Sr. Public Sector Specialist     AFTPR       Task Team Leader
Reynaldo Castro              Consultant                       AFTPR       Operations Specialist
Anthony Hegarty              Sr. Financial Management         AFTFM Financial Management
                             Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Harry Garnett                Sr. Public Sector Specialist     AFTPR       Task Team Leader
Guenter Heindenhof           Sr. Public Sector Specialist     AFTPR       Task Team Leader
Gradimir Radisic             Sr. Public Sector Specialist     AFTPR       Task Team Leader
Lisa Bhansali                Sr. Public Sector Specialist     AFTPR       Task Team Leader
Anne-Lucie Lefebvre          Sr. Public Sector Specialist     AFTPR       Task Team Leader
Reynaldo P. Castro           Consultant                       AFTPR       Operations
Nancy Chaarani Meza          Consultant                       AFTPR       Operations
Tulio Henrique Lima          Financial Management             LCSFM       Financial management
                                        25                           ANNEX A


Correa                 Specialist
Nelia Polines Dinkin   Program Assistant          AFTPR   Task assistance
Anne Louise Grinsted   E T Consultant             AFCS2   Decentralization
Beth Anne Hoffman      Operations Analyst         LEGEN   Legal & judicial
Jose Luis Macamo       Consultant                 AFTP4   Public Sector
Amos Martinho Malate   Procurement Analyst        AFTPC   Procurement
Antonio Chamuco        Procurement Specialist     AFTPC   Procurement
Adelina Mucavele       Team Assistant             AFCS2   Task assistance
Jonathan Nyamukapa     Sr Financial Management    AFTFM Financial management
                       Specialist
Carolina Rendon        Public Sector Specialist   LCSPS   Public Sector
Joao Tinga             Financial Management       AFTFM Financial Management
                       Analyst
Elvis Langa            E T Consultant             AFTFM Financial Management
                                          26


Annex B1. Achievement of Outcome, Intermediate and
Performance Indicators after Restructuring
Sub-objective: To improve access to and quality of selected priority public services
Outcome indicator             target                         achievement
 percentage of population     5-10 percent increase from     Not achieved. Only measured
reporting improvement in      baseline                       in the Municipality of
service delivery (access and                                 Maputo, and was not met
quality) for selected                                        (2.6 percent-3.1 percent
prioritized public services.                                 found improvement, which
                                                             was little different from the
                                                             baseline).
Reduction of average time     Significant decrease (at least Achieved. See Annex B2.
and effective cost of         10-20 percent)
obtaining the selected public
services targeted under the
project

Sub-objective: To improve access to and quality of selected priority public services
Intermediate results            target                      achievement
indicators
Reduction of percentage of      5-10 percent increase from  Not monitored
administrative overhead costs baseline
Increased percentage of mid Significant Increase of at      Not achieved
and senior level professionals least 15-20 percent
in selected public institutions
assigned to provincial and
district levels.
 percentage of public           At least 80 percent         Achieved.
servants integrated into a
uniform human resource data
base.
 percentage of public           At least 30 percent         Achieved. Data not collected
servants benefiting from the                                during operation, but Salary
newly introduced salary and                                 Reform Policy adopted in
incentive system.                                           2008, providing significant
                                                            new incentives.
 percentage of public           At least 50 percent         Partially achieved. All 128
institutions at national and                                districts adopted
subnational levels with basic                               participatory planning
capacity in the areas of                                    approach. E-SISTAFE is
Development planning,                                       being widely used (see
public financial management,                                below). Progress on
procurement, monitoring &                                   procurement, M&E is
evaluation3
                                            27                                  ANNEX B1


Sub-objective: To improve access to and quality of selected priority public services
Intermediate results         target                         achievement
indicators
                                                            unknown.


Total number (and percent)      23 ministries                    Achieved. The e-SISTAFE
of public institutions          11 provinces                     has been rolled out to all
executing at least 75 percent                                    ministries at the central and
of their annual budgets                                          provincial levels, 50 out of
through the Integrated                                           128 districts and in about 29
electronic financial                                             autonomous institutions. In
management system (e-                                            2010, 97 percent of the
SISTAFE).                                                        budget (goods and services)
                                                                 is done through the system.
                                                                 18 percent of salaries were
                                                                 being paid through a
                                                                 biometric database that is
                                                                 part of the system.
 percent of reviewed          At least 75 percent                Achieved. According to 2010
procurement processes that                                       PEFA, 82 percent of 2009
are assessed as conforming to                                    purchases above legal
the new procurement                                              threshold were procured
regulations.                                                     competitively.
Number (and percent) of       500 certified by the               Partially achieved. In
public accountants who are    Accountants Association.           November, 2011, a bill
certified (*).                                                   establishing the Order of
                                                                 Accountants and Auditors of
                                                                 Mozambique passed the first
                                                                 reading in the Parliament.
Number of public institutions   At least 20 percent increase     Achieved. According to 2010
(central and provincial)        in the number of public          PEFA, the number of
which are annually externally   institutions audited annually.   institutions audited increased
audited (indicator                                               from 172 in 2006 to 451 in
reformulated during                                              2009.
implementation)
Population census 2007          Census published                 Achieved
completed and data
published

Sub-objective: To improve access to and quality of selected priority public services
Performance Indicator                       Achievement
At least twelve reengineering "quick wins"  Achieved. More than 12 reengineering
will have been implemented that will be     “quick wins” were implemented and
recognized by the Ministries’ clients       recognized by the clients through surveys as
(through service delivery surveys) as       improving the quality of its services.
                                           28                                 ANNEX B1


Sub-objective: To improve access to and quality of selected priority public services
Performance Indicator                          Achievement
improving the quality of its services.
At least eight ministries, provinces or        Achieved. More than eight (8) ministries had
districts will have begun to implement their   begun implementation of reengineering,
plans to reengineer, restructure &             restructuring and decentralization of service
decentralize the delivery of services          delivery plans as agreed.
(implementation to mean: structures have
been revised, staffing changes made &
funding secured).
A professional accounting body has been set Partially achieved, as discussed above.
up and is operational.
A new salary policy has been approved by       Achieved.
the Council of Ministers, and is progressively
been implemented.
The new policy process by which policies are Achieved.
formulated and submitted to the Council of
Ministers, and which will link policy to
resources and involve widespread
consultation, will have begun to be
implemented.
The integration of the three personnel         Achieved.
databases into a single database will have
begun.
The Population Census 2007 has been            Achieved.
completed.

Sub-objective: to improve legal and judicial services in selected provinces
Outcome indicator              Target                         Achievement
 percentage of population      Significant increase (at least Not met
reporting improvement in       5-10 percent)
access to and quality of legal
and judicial services in
selected provinces.

Sub-objective: to improve legal and judicial services in selected provinces
Intermediate results          target                          Achievement
indicators
Reduction in the number of    Significant increase (at least  This indicator was not
days between intake of new    10 percent)                     monitored. The mission was
case in the justice system                                    told that there is continuing
(courts/prosecutor’s office)                                  failure to adjudicate cases
and its sentence in selected                                  within the legally mandated
Provincial courts.                                            time.
Increase of percentage of     Significant increase (at least  This indicator was not
                                             29                               ANNEX B1


citizens’ conscious of         50 percent)                   monitored.
selected legal rights and
responsibilities (e.g. land,
marriage) in selected
provinces.

Sub-objective: to improve legal and judicial services in selected provinces
Performance indicator                           achievement
Provision of services has improved in at least  Not achieved
six of the twelve judicial and prosecutorial
jurisdictions supported by the Project.
                                                   30


Annex B2. Provincial Level Service Delivery
Improvements Achieved
Service Delivery improvements achieved.
Situação Dos Doze Serviços Críticos nas Províncias

1. Província de Tete

SECTOR          UNIDADE              SERVIÇOS            Indicador               Baseline     Situação 2008
                ORGÂNICA                                                         2006
                Hospital             Serviços de         Tempo de espera         5 horas      1 hora
                Provincial de Tete   Urgência            para atendimento
                Hospital             Consultas           Tempo de espera p       30 dias      3 dias
                Provincial de Tete   Externas            marcação
Direcção                             Consultas
Provincial de                        Operatórias
Saúde                                - Medicina          Tempo de espera p       30 dias      3 dias
                                                         marcação
                Hospital             - Pediatria         Tempo de espera         16 dias      Imediata
                Provincial de Tete                       para atendimento
                                     - Genecologia       Tempo de espera p       30 dias      7 dias
                                                         marcação
                                     - Cirurgia          Tempo de espera         16 dias      7 dias
                                                         para atendimento
                                     - Ortopedia         Tempo de espera p       45 dias      15 dias
                                                         marcação
                                     - Fisioterapia      Tempo de espera         10 dias      Imediato
                                                         para atendimento
                                     - Oftamologia       Tempo de espera p       45 dia       1 dia
                                                         marcação
                                     - Estomalogia       Tempo de espera         7 dias       Imediato
                                                         para atendimento
                                     - Psiquiatria       Tempo de espera p       7 dias       Imediato
                                                         marcação
                                     Anestologia         Tempo de espera p       7 dias       1 dia
                                                         marcação
Secretaria                           Visto do Tribunal   Tempo de espera p       6 meses em   4 meses em média
Provincial                           Administrativo      atribuição              média
Direcção        Registo Civil        Registo de Civil    Tempo de espera p       8 dias e     3 dias e urgente 1
Provincial de                                            atribuição              urgente 2    dias
Justiça                                                                          dias
                Registo Criminal     Registo criminal    Tempo de espera p       90 dias      45 dias
                                                         atribuição
Direcção                             Emissão de          Tempo de espera p       30 dias      15 dias
Provincial de                        certificados        atribuição
Educação e                           Matrículas           percent de cobertura   89 percent   97 percent
Cultura                              Distribuição do      percent de cobertura   73.3         98.7 percent
                                     Livro escolar de    das escolas             percent
                                     distribuição
                                     gratuita
Direcção        Serviços de          Emissão de carta    Tempo de espera p       48 horas     48 horas dentro da
Provincial de   Viação               de condução         emissão de carta        dentro da    Província e 2 dias
ANNEX B2                                             31

Transportes e                                                                         Província e    em média fora da
Comunicações                                                                          2 dias em      Província
                                                                                      média fora
                                                                                      da
                                                                                      Província
Direcção                                 Licenciamento e       Tempo de espera        15 dias        02 dias
Provincial de                            certificação da       para emissão de
Indústria e                              actividade            licenças
Comércio                                 comercial e
                                         industrial
Direcção            Direcção             Emissão do            Tempo de espera        90 dias        90 dias
Provincial da       Nacional de          DUAT                  para emissão
Agricultura         Geografia e
                    Cadastro
Direcção            Direcção             Fixação das           Tempo de espera        11 meses       7 meses
Provincial de       Nacional da          pensões de            para fixação de
Plano e Finanças    Contabilidade        aposentação           pensões
                    Pública
Direcção                                 Licenciamento de      Tempo de espera        15 dias        15 dias
Provincial de                            empreiteiros
O.P. Habitação


2. Província de Nampula

SECTOR             UNIDADE            SERVIÇOS                Indicador               Baseline      Situação 2008
                   ORGÂNICA                                                           2006
Saúde              Hospital Central   Serviços de             Tempo de espera para    45            30 minutos
                   de Nampula         Urgência                atendimento             minutos
                                      Consultas Externas      Tempo de espera para    90 dias       Até 60 dias
                                                              marcação
                                      Consultas               Tempo de espera para    60 dias       30 dias
                                      Operatórias             marcação
Tribunal                              Visto do Tribunal       Tempo de espera p       1 ano         3 meses
Administrativo                        Administrativo          atribuição
Direcção           Registo Civil      Registo de Civil        Tempo de espera p       Até um        Até um dia ou
Provincial de                                                 atribuição              dia ou        algumas horas
Justiça                                                                               algumas
                                                                                      horas
                   Registo            Registo criminal        Tempo de espera p       60 dias       15 a 30 dias
                   Criminal                                   atribuição
Direcção                              Emissão de              Tempo de espera p       30 dias       10 dias
Provincial de                         certificados            atribuição
Educação e                            Matrículas               percent de cobertura   62            88.1 percent
Cultura                                                                               percent
                                      Distribuição do          percent de cobertura   84 percent    94.3 percent
                                      Livro escolar de        das escolas
                                      distribuição gratuita
Direcção           Serviços de        Emissão de carta de     Tempo de espera p       30 dias       15 dias
Provincial de      Viação             condução                emissão de carta
Transportes e
Comunicações
Direcção           Direcção           Emissão do DUAT         Tempo de espera para    90 dias       90 dias
Provincial da      Nacional de                                emissão
Agricultura        Geografia e
ANNEX B2                                           32

                 Cadastro
Direcção         Direcção             Fixação das pensões     Tempo de espera para    6 meses      3 meses
Provincial de    Nacional da          de aposentação          fixação de pensões
Plano e          Contabilidade
Finanças         Pública
Direcção                              Licenciamento de        Tempo de espera         6 meses      15 dias
Provincial de                         empreiteiros
O.P. Habitação


3. Província de Sofala

SECTOR           UNIDADE                   SERVIÇOS            Indicador             Baseline     Situação 2008
                 ORGÂNICA                                                            2006
Saúde            Hospital Central da       Serviços de         Tempo de espera       Imediato     Imediato
                 Beira                     Urgência            para atendimento
                                           Consultas           Tempo de espera       3 semanas    3 semanas
                                           Externas            para marcação
                                           Consultas           Tempo de espera       15 dias a    7 dias a 1 mês
                                           Operatórias         para marcação         1 mês
                 Hospitais Rurais de       Serviços de         Tempo de espera       Imediato     Imediato
                 Búzi, Dondo,              Urgência            para atendimento
                 Muxungue,                 Consultas           Tempo de espera       7 dias       7 dias
                 Marromeu e                Externas            para marcação
                 Nhamatanda                Consultas           Tempo de espera       15 dias a    15 dias a 1 mês
                                           Operatórias         para marcação         1 mês
Tribunal                                   Visto do            Tempo de espera p     15 a 30      45 a 60 dias
Administrativo                             Tribunal            atribuição            dias
(SP/DF)                                    Administrativo
Serviços         Registo Civil             Registo de Civil    Tempo de espera p     1 a 5 dias   1 a 2 dias
Provinciais de                                                 atribuição
Registos e       Registo Criminal          Registo             Tempo de espera p     45 a 90      45 a 90 dias
Notariado                                  criminal            atribuição            dias
Direcção                                   Emissão de          Tempo de espera p     1 a 15       1 a 15 dias
Provincial de                              certificados        atribuição            dias
Educação e                                 Matrículas           percent de           87           90 percent
Cultura                                                        cobertura             percent
                                           Distribuição do      percent de           90 percent   + de 90 percent
                                           Livro escolar de    cobertura das
                                           distribuição        escolas
                                           gratuita
Direcção         Serviços de Viação        Emissão de          Tempo de espera p     7 a 15       7 a 15 dias
Provincial de                              carta de            emissão de carta      dias
Transportes e                              condução
Comunicações
Direcção                                   Licenciamento       Tempo de espera       5 a 10       2 a 3 dias
Provincial de                              e certificação      para emissão de       dias
Indústria e                                da actividade       licenças
Comércio                                   comercial e
                                           industrial
Direcção         Direcção Nacional de      Emissão do          Tempo de espera                    Da competência do
Provincial da    Geografia e Cadastro      DUAT                para emissão                       Governador 60 a 90
Agricultura                                                                                       dias; Da competência
                                                                                                  do Ministro 3 a 6
                                                                                                  meses
ANNEX B2                                          33

Direcção         Direcção Nacional da     Fixação das         Tempo de espera       9 meses a      9 meses a 3 anos
Provincial de    Contabilidade Pública    pensões de          para fixação de       3 anos
Plano e                                   aposentação         pensões
Finanças
Direcção                                  Licenciamento       Tempo de espera       10 a 15        7 a 10 dias
Provincial de                             de empreiteiros                           dias
O.P. Habitação

4. Cidade de Maputo

SECTOR           UNIDADE           SERVIÇOS                 Indicador               Baseline        Situação 2008
                 ORGÂNICA                                                           2006
Saúde            Hospitais José    Serviços de              Tempo de espera para    + de 12         4 a 10 horas
                 Macamo e          Urgência                 atendimento             horas
                 Mavalane          Consultas Externas       Tempo de espera para    3 meses         1 a 2 meses
                                                            marcação
                                   Consultas                Tempo de espera para    1 a 2 meses     1 mês
                                   Operatórias              marcação
Direcção                           Emissão de               Tempo de espera p       30 dias         5 dias
Provincial de                      certificados             atribuição
Educação e                         Matrículas                percent de cobertura   94 percent      102 percent
Cultura                            Distribuição do           percent de cobertura   100 percent     100 percent
                                   Livro escolar de         das escolas
                                   distribuição gratuita
Direcção         Serviços de       Emissão de carta de      Tempo de espera p       21 dias         7 dias
Provincial de    Viação            condução                 emissão de carta
Transportes e
Comunicações
Direcção                           Licenciamento e          Tempo de espera para    Com             15 a 30 dias
Provincial de                      certificação da          emissão de licenças     importação
Indústria e                        actividade                                       15 a 30 dias
Comércio                           comercial e                                      Sem             8 a 15 dias
                                   industrial                                       importação
                                                                                    8 a 15 dias
                                                                                    Licença         imediato
                                                                                    simplificada


5. Província de Inhambane

SECTOR           UNIDADE                  SERVIÇOS            Indicador             Baseline        Situação 2008
                 ORGÂNICA                                                           2006
Saúde            Hospital Provincial de   Serviços de         Tempo de espera       1 hora          ½ hora
                 Inhambane                Urgência            para atendimento
                                          Consultas           Tempo de espera
                                          Externas            para marcação
                                          Consultas           Tempo de espera
                                          Operatórias         para marcação
                 Centro de Saúde          Serviços de         Tempo de espera
                 Urbano                   Urgência            para atendimento
                                          Consultas           Tempo de espera       3 meses         2 meses
                                          Externas            para marcação
                                          Consultas           Tempo de espera
                                          Operatórias         para marcação
                 Centro de Saúde          Serviços de         Tempo de espera
ANNEX B2                                         34

                 Muele                   Urgência           para atendimento
                                         Consultas          Tempo de espera
                                         Externas           para marcação
                                         Consultas          Tempo de espera     30 dias       15 dias
                                         Operatórias        para marcação
Tribunal                                 Visto do           Tempo de espera p   6 meses       30 dias
Administrativo                           Tribunal           atribuição
(SP/DF)                                  Administrativo
Serviços         Registo Civil           Registo de Civil   Tempo de espera p   1 dia         1 dia
Provinciais de                                              atribuição
Registos e       Registo Criminal        Registo criminal   Tempo de espera p   + de 45       1 dia
Notariado                                                   atribuição          dias
Direcção                                 Emissão de         Tempo de espera p   15 dias       8 dias
Provincial de                            certificados       atribuição
Educação e                               Matrículas          percent de         98 percent    98.6 percent
Cultura                                                     cobertura
                                         Distribuição do     percent de         85 percent    100 percent
                                         Livro escolar de   cobertura das
                                         distribuição       escolas
                                         gratuita
Direcção         Serviços de Viação      Emissão de         Tempo de espera p   ≥ 60 dias     1 semana
Provincial de                            carta de           emissão de carta
Transportes e                            condução
Comunicações
Direcção         Balcão Único de         Licenciamento e    Tempo de espera     5 a 15 dias   1 a 5 dias
Provincial de    Atendimento             certificação da    para emissão de
Indústria e                              actividade         licenças
Comércio                                 comercial e
                                         industrial
Direcção         Direcção Nacional de    Emissão do         Tempo de espera     1 ano         15 dias nacionais
Provincial da    Geografia e Cadastro    DUAT               para emissão                      ≥ 90 estrangeiros
Agricultura
Direcção         Direcção Nacional da    Fixação das        Tempo de espera     12 meses      10 meses
Provincial de    Contabilidade Pública   pensões de         para fixação de
Plano e                                  aposentação        pensões
Finanças
Direcção                                 Licenciamento      Tempo de espera     30 dias       15 dias
Provincial de                            de empreiteiros
O.P. Habitação
ANNEX B2                                          35


6. Província de Manica

SECTOR           UNIDADE                  SERVIÇOS            Indicador           Baseline     Situação
                 ORGÂNICA                                                         2006         2008
Saúde            Hospital Provincial do   Serviços de         Tempo de espera     4 horas      30 min a 2
                 Chimoio                  Urgência            para atendimento                 horas
                                          Consultas           Tempo de espera     6a8          3 meses
                                          Externas            para marcação       meses
                                          Consultas           Tempo de espera     4a5          1 mês e
                                          Operatórias         para marcação       meses        meio
Tribunal                                  Visto do Tribunal   Tempo de espera p   30 a 90      30 dias
Administrativo                            Administrativo      atribuição          dias
(SP/DF)
Serviços         RegistoCivil             Registo de Civil    Tempo de espera p   Registo      30min a 1
Provinciais de                                                atribuição          civil 15 a   hora
Registos e                                                                        30 dias
Notariado        Conservatória do         Registo criminal    Tempo de espera p   45 a 60      3 a 7 dias
                 Registo Civil e                              atribuição          dias
                 Notariado
Direcção                                  Emissão de          Tempo de espera p   30 dias      11 a 7 dias
Provincial de                             certificados        atribuição
Educação e                                Matrículas           percent de         100          100
Cultura                                                       cobertura           percent      percent
                                          Distribuição do      percent de         100          100
                                          Livro escolar de    cobertura das       percent      percent
                                          distribuição        escolas
                                          gratuita
Direcção         Serviços de Viação       Emissão de carta    Tempo de espera p   60 dias      15 a 60
Provincial de                             de condução         emissão de carta                 dias
Transportes e
Comunicações
Direcção         Balcão Único de          Licenciamento e     Tempo de espera     45 dias      1 a 6 dias
Provincial de    Atendimento              certificação da     para emissão de
Indústria e                               actividade          licenças
Comércio                                  comercial e
                                          industrial
Direcção         Direcção Nacional de     Emissão do          Tempo de espera     3 meses       45 dias a
Provincial da    Geografia e Cadastro     DUAT                para emissão                     3 meses
Agricultura
Direcção         Departamento de          Fixação das         Tempo de espera     3 meses      45 dias a 3
Provincial de    Contabilidade Pública    pensões de          para fixação de                  meses
Plano e                                   aposentação         pensões
Finanças
Direcção                                  Licenciamento de    Tempo de espera
Provincial de                             empreiteiros
O.P. Habitação
ANNEX B2                                          36


7. Província de Niassa

SECTOR           UNIDADE            SERVIÇOS                Indicador               Baseline 2006     Situação
                 ORGÂNICA                                                                             2008
Saúde            Hospital           Serviços de             Tempo de espera para    03 horas          25
                 Provincial de      Urgência                atendimento                               minutos
                 Lichinga           Consultas Externas      Tempo de espera para    30 dias           9 dias
                                                            marcação
                                    Consultas               Tempo de espera para    30 dias           12 dias
                                    Operatórias             marcação
Tribunal                            Visto do Tribunal       Tempo de espera p       4 meses           30 dias
Administrativo                      Administrativo          atribuição
(SP/DF)
Serviços         Registo Civil      Registo de Civil        Tempo de espera p
Provinciais de                                              atribuição
Registos e       Conservatória      Registo criminal        Tempo de espera p       15 a 30 dias      3 a 7 dias
Notariado        do Registo Civil                           atribuição
                 e Notariado
Direcção                            Emissão de              Tempo de espera p       45 dias           15 dias
Provincial de                       certificados            atribuição
Educação e                          Matrículas               percent de cobertura   75 percent        98 percent
Cultura                             Distribuição do          percent de cobertura   80 percent        99 percent
                                    Livro escolar de        das escolas
                                    distribuição gratuita
Direcção         Serviços de        Emissão de carta de     Tempo de espera p       30 dias           2 dias
Provincial de    Viação             condução                emissão de carta
Transportes e
Comunicações
Direcção         Balcão Único de    Licenciamento e         Tempo de espera para    8 dias            2 dias
Provincial de    Atendimento        certificação da         emissão de licenças
Indústria e                         actividade comercial
Comércio                            e industrial
Direcção         Direcção           Emissão do DUAT         Tempo de espera para    85 dias            80 dias
Provincial da    Nacional de                                emissão
Agricultura      Geografia e
                 Cadastro
Direcção         Departamento       Fixação das pensões     Tempo de espera para    12 meses          5 meses
Provincial de    de                 de aposentação          fixação de pensões
Plano e          Contabilidade
Finanças         Pública
Direcção                            Licenciamento de        Tempo de espera
Provincial de                       empreiteiros
O.P. Habitação


8. Província de Maputo

SECTOR           UNIDADE            SERVIÇOS                Indicador               Baseline       Situação
                 ORGÂNICA                                                           2006           2008
Saúde            Não tem            Serviços de             Tempo de espera para
                 hospital           Urgência                atendimento
                 provincial         Consultas Externas      Tempo de espera para
                                                            marcação
                                    Consultas               Tempo de espera para
                                    Operatórias             marcação
ANNEX B2                                              37

Tribunal                             Visto do Tribunal       Tempo de espera p           45 a 90      30 dias
Administrativo                       Administrativo          atribuição                  dias
(SP/DF)
Serviços          Registo Civil      Registo de Civil        Tempo de espera p           30 dias      2 a 3 horas
Provinciais de                                               atribuição
Registos e        Conservatória      Registo criminal        Tempo de espera p           30 dias      5 dias
Notariado         do Registo Civil                           atribuição
                  e Notariado
Direcção                             Emissão de              Tempo de espera p
Provincial de                        certificados            atribuição
Educação e                           Matrículas               percent de cobertura       100          100,2
Cultura                                                                                  percent      percent
                                     Distribuição do          percent de cobertura       100          100
                                     Livro escolar de        das escolas                 percent      percent
                                     distribuição gratuita
Direcção          Serviços de        Emissão de carta de     Tempo de espera p           Mais de      20 dias
Provincial de     Viação             condução                emissão de carta            60 dias
Transportes e
Comunicações
Direcção          Balcão Único de    Licenciamento e         Tempo de espera para        5 meses      3 a 7 dias
Provincial de     Atendimento        certificação da         emissão de licenças
Indústria e                          actividade comercial
Comércio                             e industrial
Direcção          Direcção           Emissão do DUAT         Tempo de espera para        3 meses      40 a 45
Provincial da     Nacional de                                emissão                                  dias
Agricultura       Geografia e
                  Cadastro
Direcção          Departamento       Fixação das pensões     Tempo de espera para        3 meses      25 dias
Provincial de     de                 de aposentação          fixação de pensões
Plano e           Contabilidade
Finanças          Pública
Direcção                             Licenciamento de        Tempo de espera             45 dias      15 dias
Provincial de                        empreiteiros
O.P. Habitação


9. Província de Cabo Delgado

SECTOR           UNIDADE          SERVIÇOS                    Indicador        Baseline 2006       Situação
                 ORGÂNICA                                                                          2008
Saúde            Hospital         Serviços de Urgência        Tempo de         2 horas             20 mn
                 Provincial                                   espera para
                 Pemba                                        atendimento
                 Hospital         Consultas Externas          Tempo de         14 dias             7 dias
                 Provincial                                   espera p
                 Pemba                                        marcação
                 Hospital         Consultas Operatórias       Tempo de         30 dias             15 dias
                 Provincial                                   espera p
                 Pemba                                        marcação
Tribunal                                                      Tempo de
Administrativo                    Visto do Tribunal           espera p
                                  Administrativo              atribuição
DP da Justiça    Registo Civil    Registo de Civil                             72 horas            24 horas
                 Registo          Registo criminal            Tempo de         90 dias             3 dias
                 Criminal                                     espera p
ANNEX B2                                                    38

                                                                      atribuição
DP da               Escola               Emissão de certificados      Tempo de        7 diaS         3 dias
Educação e          Secundaria                                        espera p
Cultura             de Pemba                                          atribuição
                    Escola               Matrículas                    percent de     98 percent     130 percent
                    Secundaria                                        cobertura
                    de Pemba
                    DPEC                 Distribuição do Livro         percent de     100 percent    100 percent
                                         escolar de distribuição      cobertura das
                                         gratuita                     escolas
DP dos                                                                Tempo de
Transportes e       Serviços de          Emissão de carta de          espera p        24/72 horas    -24/-72 horas
Comunicações        Viação               condução                     emissão de
                                                                      carta
DP da                                                                 Tempo de
Indústria e         BAU                  Licenciamento e              espera para     23 dias        4 dias
Comércio                                 certificação da actividade   emissão de
                                         comercial e industrial       licenças
DP da               Direcção             Emissão do DUAT              Tempo de
Agricultura         Nacional de                                       espera para     90 DIAS        90 DIAS
                    Geografia e                                       emissão
                    Cadastro
DP Plano das        Direcção             Fixação das pensões de       Tempo de
Finanças            Nacional da          aposentação                  espera para     Processos      Processos
                    Contabilidade                                     fixação de      tramitados     tramitados
                    Pública                                           pensões         Centralmente   Centralmente
DPOPH                                    Licenciamento de             Tempo de        30 dias        15 dias
                                         empreiteiros                 espera
Source: Republic of Mozambique: 2012a.
                                           39


Annex C. List of Persons Met
In Washington, DC (including teleconferences)

Alwahti, Ali Y. DPFP TTL
Andrews, Matt – Consultant, Public Financial Management for Results Program.
Carroll, Allan – DPFP TTL prior to appraisal
De Renzio, Paolo – Independent researcher
Fernandez-Ansola, Juan Jose, Consultant, CASCR Review Mozambique, 2012
Garnett, Harry, PSRP TTL at appraisal
Kuper, Kate - DPFP TTL
Lefebvre, Anne-Lucie – PSRP TTL after completion
Pomerance, Phyllis - Professor, Duke University; former CD until 2000, Zambia
Mozambique.
van Holst Pellekaan, Jack - Consultant, member of Mozambique CAE team


In Mozambique

Government

Alberto, Manuel Rodrigues – National Director, National Directorate of Municipal
Develoment, Ministry of State Administrateion
Antonio, Rui – Provincial Technical Team, Sofala Province
Banze, Olegario dos Angos – National Deputy – Director, National Directorate for
Promotion of Rural Development, Ministry of State Administration
Belessone, Ana - District Administrator, Tsangano District, Tete Province
Carlos, Tenday – Provincial Technical Team, Sofala Province
Coanai, Miguel Taembera – Director of Maintenance, National Road Administration
Costa, Ana Virgilio da silva - Permanent Secretary, Nhamatanda District, Sofala Province
Erskog, Hans – Senior Financial Analyst, Ministry of Environmental Coordination
Fonseca, Maria de Lurdes de – Provincial Director, Provincial Directorate of Planning and
Finance, Tete Province
Grachane, Cecilio – Director General, National Road Administration
Jutha, Momad Piaraly – National Director, National Directorate of Planning, Ministry of
Planning and Development
Lambo, Domingos – National Director, National Director of Social Welfare, Ministry of
Finance
Lubrino, Grilo – National Director of Studies and Administrative Procedures, Ministry of
Public Service
Mafunga, Adeline – Permanent Secretary, Chiuta District, Tete Province
                                           40                                  ANNEX C


Moiana, Sergio Sional - District Administrator, Nhamatanda District, Sofala Province
Motsinhe - Civil Engineer, National Directorate of Buildings, Ministry of Public Works and
Housing
Mucudos, Custudio dos – Head NDPFP Project Implementation Unit, National Directorate of
Planning, Ministry of Planning and Development
Nhahingo, Antonio, Vice President of the Tete Provincial Assembly
Nhmatande, District Administrator, Nhamatanda District, Sofala Province
Nyangwni, Raphael M - Education Director Nhamatanda District, Sofala Province
Sakut, Ibrahim Abdul – accounts specialist, Ministry of State Administration
Soca, Brito Antonio – Civil Engineer, National Directorate of Buildings, Ministry of Public
Works and Housing
Somane, Elisa Arissone G. – Provincial Permanent Secretary, Provincial Secretariat,
Province of Sofala
Tui, Atalia - Director Finance and Planning, Sofala Province
Vasquez, Ivan – Chief Technical Advisor, National Directorate for Promotion of Rural
Development, Ministry of State Administration
Zambeze, Francisca Alberto - Permanent Secretary, Changara District, Tete Province


Civil Society and Private Sector

Aefimar, Antonio Augusto - Nhamatanda District Council, Sofala Province
Banze, Felix A.- Executive Director, APDCOMA
Dava, Lourino – Program Coordinator, Center for Public Integrity
Faekm Baltazar Jorge – Researcher, Center for Public Integrity
Mabunda, Antonio Albino – Managing Director, AM International Procurement
Macuane, Jose – Political analyst, UNDP and DfID consultant
Munhequete, Aida – Interpreter
Nkamate, Salvador - Liga Moçambicana dos Direitos Humanos (Mozambican Human Rights
League) http://www.ldh.org.mz
Osman, Magid – Owner, Lex Mozambique (former Finance Minister)
Development Partners
Antonopoulou, Fotini – Attache, European Union
Barnes, John – Technical Advisor, UNDP
Bronselaer, Dirk – Sr. Procurement Specialist, World Bank
Bruschi, Francesca – Policy Analyst, Italian Cooperation
                                          41                                  ANNEX C


Chamuco, Antonio L. – Sr. Procurement Specialist, World Bank
Figueiredo, Carlos Mauricio Cabral – Expert on Supreme Audit Institutions, Decentralization
Program, GIZ
Hawkins, Peter – Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist, World Bank
Imparato, Ivo - TTL, National Decentralized Planning and Finance Program
Ising, Josef – Program Director, Decentralization Program, GIZ
Karlsen, Anders B. – Head of Cooperation, Royal Danish Embassy
Lefebvre, Anne-Lucie – Sr. Public Sector Specialist, World Bank
Malate, Amos – Procurement Analyst, World Bank
Mason, Jocelyn T. – Country Director, UNDP
Raich, Uri - TTL Mozambique Urbanization and Municipal Development Project and
NDPFP (successor to Imparato)
Saleem, Furqan Ahmad – Sr. Financial Management Specialist, World Bank
Ulens, Wim – Attache, European Union
Verissimo, Patrick – Sr. Sector Economist, World Bank
Vilissa, Datto – Analyst, Royal Danish Embassy
                      42


Annex D. Government Comments
43   ANNEX D
44   ANNEX D
45   ANNEX D
46   ANNEX D
47   ANNEX D
48   ANNEX D
