Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A,~ )u2 vC>/_ t"
Report No. 5121-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
September 4, 1984
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ringgit (MS)         Calendar 1983      April 1984
US$1.00                         -   M$2.30              M$2.25
M$l.o0                          -   USS0.43             US$0.44
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malaysia
January 1 - December 31
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad
April 1 - March 31
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
EDD       -   Bumiputera Development Department in Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance Berhad
BPMB      -   Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (Malaysian Development
Bank, Ltd.)
BNM       -   Bank Negara Malaysia (the Central Bank of Malaysia)
CCDSE     -   Coordinating Council for the Development of Small Enterprises
EDP       -   Entrepreneur Development Program
EPR       -   Effective Protection Rate
FRI       -   Forest Research Institute
FTD       -   Food and Technology Division of the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute
FTZ       -   Free Trade Zone
GDP       -   Gross Domescic Product
GNP       -   Gross National Product
IEU       -   Industrial Extension Unit (of SIRIM)
LSEs      -   Large-Scale Enterprises
MARA      -   Majlis Amanah Rakyat
MARDI     -   Malaysian AgricuLtural Research and Development Institute
MEDEC     -   Malaysian Entrepreneurial Development Center
MIDF      -   Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad
MIDFCCS   -   MIDF Consultancy and Corporate Services Sendrian Berhad
MIEL      -   Malaysian Industrial Estate Sendrian Berhad
MSEs      -   Medium-Scale Enterprises
NEP       -   New Economic Policy
NPC       -   National Productivity Center
SED       -   Small Enterprise Division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry
SIRIM     -   Standards and IndustriaL Research Institute of Malaysia
SSEs      -   Small-Scale Enterprises
SSIs      -   Small-Scale Indusrries
TA        -   Technical Assistance
TSEs      -   Tiny-Scale Enterprises
UNDP      -   United Nations Developimcrit Programme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
SHALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary  . .......................................  i-iii
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND ...........................................           1
The Industrial Sector               ...............                    1
The Financial Sector .. ......................................         5
Bank Strategy for Industrial Sector Lending ......... ........         7
II.  THE PROJECT..                                               . ..          7
I. TH.ROET...................... ............................                 7
Project Objectives and Description ............ ..............         7
A.  Technical Assistance Component                 ..                    8
Status of Existing Technical Assistance Programs ........          8
Participating Agencies ...... ............................         9
B.   Credit Component .. .............. ........................ .    18
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad ................ ........    18
The Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad....    30
III.  THE PROPOSED BANK LN.......        .........................             37
Project Cost and Financing .............. .............               37
Features of the Proposed Loan... ......................    40
Project Benefits and Risks ..............................             43
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS
REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONST...O..                   ............ ..    44
This report is based on findings of appraisal missions to Malaysia in January
and April 1984. Mission members were Zamir Hasan (mission leader), Hans
Lesshafft and Henry Warren (consultant).
Ti document has a restrced distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Lending Rates of Selected Institutions as of December 31, 1983
BPMB
2. Policy Statement
3. Statement of Operational Strategies
4. Operations, 1979-83
5. ,Financial Structure and Performance, 1979-83
6. Portfolio Status, 1980-83
7. Resource Position as of December 31, 1983
8. Projections, 1984-88
MIDF
9. Statement of Policies and Guidelines
10. Operations, 1979-83
11. Financial Structure and Performance, 1979-83
12. Portfolio Status, 1980-83
13. Resource Position as of December 31, 1983
14. Projections, 1984-88
OTHER
15. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
16. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1.   Malaysia's Financial System as of December 31, 1983
II.   Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Organization Chart as of December 31, 1983
III.   Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd.
Organization Chart as of March 31., 1984
MAP
IBRD   18397 - Malaysia Small-Scale Enterprise Project



MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Government of Malaysia
Beneficiaries:        Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Bhd. (BPMB), Malaysian Indus-
trial Development Finance Bhd. (MIDF), Small Enterprise
Division (SED) of the Ministry of Trade and Industry,
National Productivity Center (NPC), Malaysian Entrepre-
neurial Development Center (MEDEC), Food Technology
Division (FTD) of the Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Institute, Forest Research Institute
(FRI) and Standards and Industrial Research Institute of
Malaysia (SIRIM).
Amount:               US$52.1 million equivalent (including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.1 million).
Terms:                Standard variable interest rate; 15 years including 3
years of grace.
Relending Terms:      The project comprises a credit component (US$46.6
million equivalent) and a technical assistance (TA)
component (US$5.4 million equivalent). The Government
of Malaysia would relend the credit component to BPMB
and MIDF at a fixed interest rate of 7.3% p.a., bear the
foreign exchange risk and the risk of interest rate
fluctuation on the Bank loan, for periods of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. BPMB and MIDF would onlend
the funds to its subborrowers at lending rates ranging
between 9% and more than 11%. The TA component will be
made available as a budgetary grant to the participating
TA agencies and as interest free loans to BPMB and MIDF.
Project Description:  The project will develop small-scale enterprises (SSEs)
in Malaysia by significantly increasing the availability
of institutional credit and expanding and improving TA
to provide integrated services to those SSEs which
presently do not receive adequate institutional credit
and high quality technical assistance. It will also
strengthen BPMB institutionally, and expand MIDF's SSE
lending. Over the 3-year project period, some 1,100-
1,200 subloans will be made with an average size of
US$75,000-US$89,000. Under the TA component, the
pro ect will provide staff training for the participat-
ing agencies, equipment for workshops, laboratories and
classrooms, expansion of physical facilities and
recruitment of experts/advisors. The project will also



- ii -
strengthen the coordination mechanism for financial and
technical assistance and the monitoring and evaluation
of all TA programs. The project is estimated to create
more than 12,000 jobs at relatively low ;.osts. The
major risk is that the loan could take longer to
disburse than currently estimated in view of the
uncertainties of the economic environment. This risk
will be minimized, however, by considerable
strengthening of the participating credit and technical
assistance agencies which are expected to contribute to
more intensive and efficient promotion. Another risk is
that the coordination among many TA and credit agencies
is not effective. Much would depend on CCDSE and SED in
this regard. Provision has been made in the project to
strengthen coordination and for periodic consultation
between the Bank and the Government on this subject. A
risk particular to BPMB is that it could face
difficulties raising the resources to achieve its
projected volume of operations. However, the Government
has agreed to provide BPMB with the necessary resources
and suppport its borrowing efforts.
Estimated Cost:                                    Local    Foreign    Total
__ _    US$ million --
Credit Component                                  74.7         18.6      93.3
Technical Assistance                               3.2          6.3       9.5
Subtotal /a                                77.9        24.9      102.8
Contingencies
Physical                                         0.3          0.4       0.7
Price                                            0.2          0.3       0.5
Subtotal                                    0.5         0.7        1.2
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                          -           0.1       0.1
Total Financing Required                        78.4         25.7     104.1
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan (including front-end fee)             28.0        24.1       52.1
BPMB (through Government)                       33.4           -       33.4
MIDF                                            13.3           -       13.3
Government                                       3.7          1.6       5.3
Total                                         78.4        25.7      104.1
/a Including taxes which would be applicable to equipment only (included in
the cost of technical assistance) and are estimated to be insignificant.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
US$ million
Annual                              2.7   14.9   16.8    10.2   4.6    2.9
Cumulative                          2.7   17.6   34.4    44.6  49.2   52.1
Rate of Return:                        NA
Staff Appraisal Report:               No. 5121-MA, dated September 4, 1984.
Map: IBRD No. 18397



MALAYSIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Industrial Sector
1.01      Manufacturing sector overview.  The manufacturing sector has been
the single largest contributor to the growth of gross domestic product (GDP)
during the 1970s in Malaysia. Its average rate of growth of almost 12%
outstripped that of all other principal sectors; GDP grew by less than 8% per
annum during the same period. Thus, the share of manufacturing sector in GDP
increased from 14% in 1971 to almost 19% in 1980. The sector's success in
creating gainful employment has also been impressive; manufacturing employment
grew at almost twice the rate of overall national employment during the
1970s. The most prominent three manufacturing subsectors are: chemicals,
petroleum and rubber products; food, beverages and tobacco products; and
machinery and equipment (electric and non-electric). They together accounted
for almost 72% of the employment, and over 82% of the value-added as well as
the fixed assets of the manufacturing sector in Peninsular Malaysia in 1981.
1.02      While the manufacturing sector has grown quite rapidly, a recent
analysis by the Bank has pointed out a number of structural problems requiring
policy adjustments: (i) concentration of export industries in Free Trade
Zones (FTZs) which have limited linkages with the rest of the Malaysian
economy, and have thus contributed relatively little in terms of secondary
effects, including development of local skills, technology transfer, etc.;
(ii) misallocation of resources because che protective system is administered
on a case-by-case basis, resulting in import substitution industries having
high effective protection rates (EPRs) compared with negative EPRs for non-FTZ
exporters, and differentiation in EPRs between various subsectors and between
firms within the same subsector; and (iii) capital bias of,the fiscal incen-
tive system, resulting in distortions and misallocations.-
1.03      The Government has become incr57singly aware of the structural
problems facing the manufacturing sector- and of the need to take corrective
measures. It is undertaking a UNDP-financed and Bank-executed project of a
comprehensive and integrated set of industrial policy studies, which are
1/   For details, see IBRD:  Malaysia's Manufacturing Sector:  Development
Issues and Policy Options (in three volumes), Report No. 3187-MA,
April 9, 1981.
2/   The Mid-Term Review of the Fourth Malaysian Plan 1981-85, compLeted and
published in March 1984, succinctly notes these structural problems.



expected to be completed by the end of 1984. These studies cover topics such
as assessment of EPRs and domestic resource cost, cost-benefit analysis of
FTZs including the effects of transfer pricing, impact of tariff and non-
tariff incentives, evaluation of barriers to further industrial development,
and consideration of adjustment problems of shifting to a new economic and
industrial policy environment. The results of the Industrial Policy Studies
Project are expected to provide the economic framework and rationale for a
major review of Malaysia's industrial and trade policy regime with a view to
designing appropriate policies for the 1980s and beyond. The Bank is closely
following the progress of these studies.
1.04      Small-scale enterprise sector.  An empirical analysis of business
enterprises in the Malaysian economy pertains only to the registered firms (or
formal sector) of Peninsular Malaysia since little statistical nformation in
a compatible form is available on unregistered businesses (or informal sector)
and on East Malaysia. The registered firms can be classified into four
segments by an employment size criterion: tiny-scale enterprises (TSEs),
employing less than 5 persons; small-scale enterprises (SSEs), employing 5-49
persons; medium-scale enterprises (MSEs), employing 50-199 persons; and large-
scale enterprises (LSEs), employing 200 or more persons. An estimated 200,000
establishments were engaged in a wide variety of non-agricultural economic
activity during 1981. About 75% of these were TSEs which accounted for about
20% of employment but only 7% of value-added and 6% of fixed assets of all the
non-agricultural establishments.  For manufacturing alone, TS§, contributed
even less to employment (about 3%) and value-added (only 1%)._
1.05      SSEs are a much more important segment of the Malaysian non-
agricultural economy. About 20% of all non-agricultural business firms were
SSEs; they were responsible for approximately 32% of employment, 29Z of value-
added and 25% of fixed assets in the entire non-agricultural sector. An over-
whelming majority of SSEs are in manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade,
and construction. In the manufacturing sector, almost half of the firms were
SSEs, and they were responsible for approximately 25% of employment and 15% of
the value-added and fixed assets. The SSEs are also quite efficient users of
labor and capital. While an average TSE was only about one-third as efficient
in labor utilization (value-added per person engaged) as all four (tiny,
small, medium, and large) size segments combined, an average SSE was almost as
efficient as the overal', average. And the relative efficiency of an average
SSE in terms of capital productivity (measured as the ratio of value-added to
the value of fixed assets), particularly in the manufacturing sector, was
superior to that of all other size segments.
1.06      Small-scale manufacturing sector.4'  The above analysis, in terms of
the indicators of efficiency, was also conducted for the manufacturing sector
3/   For details, see IBRD:  Malaysia:  Development Issues and Prospects of
Small Enterprises (in three volumes), Report No. 3851-MA, June 25, 1982.
4/   The empirical results presented here are drawn from the above-mentioned
IBRD report on small enterprises.



-3-
alone. Small manufacturing establishments (SSIs) in industries, such as fish
preservation and -roressing, rice milling, leather footwear, wooden furniture
and fixtures, pottery, china, earthenware, auto spare parts and accessories
were found to be more efficient users of both capital and labor than medium-
and large-scale manufacturing enterprises (MLIs) in these activities. In
terms of capital use alone, SSIs were efficient also in coconut and palm
kernel oil, sago and tapioca, biscuits and confectionary products, knitting
mills, saw mills, windows and doors, rubber smokehouses, structural clay
products, foundries, wire and wire products, agricultural machinery and
equipment, electrical industrial machinery, and assembly of bicycles. The
empirical analysis, therefore, illustrates that many SSIs are relatively pro-
ductive and have the potential to grow and modernize and thus make an
important contribution towards greater productive employment, income genera-
tion and poverty alleviation.
1.07      Bumiputera enterprises 5/ are among the smallest and the least
developed of all SSEs, and play a relatively insignificant role, particularly
in manufacturing. This general observation is reinforced by an analysis of
the available data on non-agricultural economic activities by scale of
operation (tiny, small, medium, and large). For instance, the target group
accounted for only about 25% of all non-agricultural enterprises and generated
only slightly more than 10 of the employment and owned less than 7Z of the
fixed assets. Because these enterprises tend to be smaller in size, their
shares, in terms of the number of establishments, number of persons engaged or
value of fixed assets owned by them tend to decline rapidly as the
establishment size increases from tiny to large; while the target group
enterprises accounted for one out of four tiny/small enterprises, the same
accounted for only one out of ten for medium/large enterprises.
1.08      In the manufacturing sector, target group enterprises accounted for
only 10 of the number of establishments, 7% of employment, and 5% of fixed
assets in 1981. All these shares were somewhat higher in the tiny/small size
segments than in the medium/large size segments. The average size of these
enterprises in terms of employment, fixed assets or value-added also tends to
be smaller among tiny/small as well as medium/large enterprises. These
enterprises also tend to be less efficient than the enterprises in non-target
segments, principally due to their relative disadvantage in technical,
managerial, and marketing know-how, their lack of capital, their recent
viintage and their concentration in typically low productivity industries.
1.09      In 1971, the Government of Malaysia launched the New Economic Policy
(NEP), among whose major goals was the reduction of poverty and the restruc-
turing of the economy so as to reduce income disparities between Malays and
those whose forebears settled in Malaysia from other countries. It was
recognized that SSE growth had to play a special role to help meet some
specific NEP goals. For example, a more widely dispersed location of jobs and
5/   Bumiputera enterprises are those which are at least 50% owned and managed
by ethnic Malays. In subsequent sections of this report, this group will
be referred to as the "target group."



industries is a goal of the NEP which can be met by promoting SSEs since they
tend to be much less concentrated geographically than the larger size
enterprises. Another example is the development of entrepreneurship,
especially among target group SSEs. Again, SSEs possibly offer the best
vehicle for achieving this objective, since a great bulk of business is
conducted in units of small size and they provide a seedbed for entre-
preneurial talent. Finally, since SSEs are relatively labor intensive, they
will pLay a major role in absorbing a growing and increasingly urban labor
force and thus accommodate the demographic shift which is taking place in the
Malaysian economy.
1.10      The target group enterprises are highly concentrated in a few
subsectors. For example, among the TSEs, of the 378 enterprises counted in
the food, beverages and tobacco products in 1981, 269 were small rice miLls.
Of the 405 such enterprises in the broad category of textiles, wearing
apparel, leather, and wood-related products, 249 were in tailoring and 79 were
in wood furniture and fixtures. A similar degree of concentration is found
among the SSIs. Just four industries (small rice mills, large rice mills,
bakery products and tobacco products) accounted for 188 of the 246 firms in
the broad group of food, beverages and tobacco products. Just two industries
(printing and publishing, and structural clay products) accounted for 93 of
the 138 firms in the broad group of chemicals and related products. Thus, a
large share of manufacturing enterprises in the target group is concentrated
in just a few manufacturing industries. Finally, a comparison of labor and
capital productivities across the industries shows, as expected, considerable
variance in them, and also a general superiority of the non-target group
segments over the target group enterprises in terms of the respective
productivities; that is, much the same pattern as displayed by the more
aggregate data.
1.11      Constraints to SSE development.  Some of the constraints to SSE
development and growth are inherent in their small size, while others can be
alleviated. The constraints can be grouped into three principal categories:
government policies which create unfavorable broad macro framework, inadequate
managerial and technological/engineering knowledge, which results in
inefficient operations and comparative cost disadvantages, and the inability
to raise/attract the needed capital, which inhibits new entrants into commerce
and industry and limits the expansion of existing entrepreneurs.
1.12      Being cognizant of the above-mentioned concerns, the Government is
adopting an integrated and balanced approach to support the development and
growth of SSEs. In respect of the macro framework, the aim of the Government
is to provide a neutral incentive system. Towards this end, the Industrial
Policy Studies Project (para. 1.03) is expected to provide detailed recommen-
dations to eliminate the present policy biases towards capital as against
labor and in favor of large versus small firms. In respect of the inadequate
managerial and technological/engineering knowLedge, the Government has, for
quite some time, provided various kinds of training and other facilities.
Unfortunatelv the programs initiated were without any overall coherent plan
and their dt.elopment has been uncoordinated. The result is that the agencies
are weak and their pro-rams cost ineffective. As analyzed in more detail
under the Technical Assistance Component (paras. 2.04-2.41), the project aims



-5-
at strengthening key technical assistance agencies and their programs, and
also enhance coordination. To try to alleviate the third principal
constraint, i.e., inability of SSEs to raise/attract the needed capital, the
Covernment has resorted to mandatory credit allocation schemes at subsidized
rates. This aspect pertains directly to the financial sector and related
issues and is discussed in the following section.
The Financial Sector
1.13      Structure.  The financial system in Malaysia is fairly well
developed. On the banking side, it comprises the central bank (Bank Negara),
commerciaL banks, finance companies, merchant banks and discount houses. The
non-bank financial intermediaries comprise the provident and pension funds,
insurance companies, savings institutions, some specialized institutions
(principally for housing), development banks, two stock exchanges and some
unit trusts. The capital market is dominated by government securities in
terms of total funds raised and, although becoming more active recently, is,
as yet, not very significant in the financial system.
1.14      As of December 31, 1983, Bank Negara accounted for about 11% of
total assets of the financial system. The commercial banks, the largest seg-
ment of the financial system with 45% of the combined total assets, have
recorded uninterrupted double digit growth in total assets since 1971, which
accelerated to an average rate of about 25% in 1979-83. There were 38 conmer-
cial banks (of which 22 were domestic) operating in Malaysia at the end of
1983. In 1983, 56 new banking offices were opened to reach a total of 664.
Other categories of financial institutions are much less important. Total
assets of finance companies and merchant banks at the end of 1983 were about
9Z and 4Z, respectively, of the total assets of the financial system. Among
the non-banking sector, provident and pension funds were, by far, the most
important, accounting for about 15% of total assets, while the development
finance institutions accounted for about 3%. Included in the latter are Bank
Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB) and Malaysian Industrial Development
Finance Berhad (MIDF), which will be the channels for the credit component
under the project. BPMB was created specifically for lending to Bumiputeras
and is wholly owned by the Government; MIDF is a predominantly private owned
and managed development bank. The country's financial system as of
December 31, 1983, is shown in Chart I.
1.15      Interest rates.  Interest rates in Malaysia are, in general, market
determined. These rates have historically been relatively stable and substan-
tially positive in a low inflation economy. During 1982, deposit rates for
one month ranged between 7.0Z-8.75% and for 12 months between 9.25X-10.50Z
with modal rates as of December 31, 1982 of 82 and 10% respectively. On the
lending side, most interest rates generally ranged between llZ-13%, with the
weighted average rate of all commercial banks being 12.3% as of December 31,
1982. Interest rates, in 1983 remained about the same with deposit rates on
shorter maturities rising a little and that on longer maturities declining by
about 1 percentage point. Lending rates also remained stable with the weigh-
ted average lending rate of all commercial banks declining about 70 basis
points to 11.6% as of December 31, 1983. Interest rates, as of December 31,
1983, by institutions and sectors are given in Annex 1. These interest rates



- 6 -
are all substantially positive in real terms, given price inflation of 5.8% in
1982 and 3.7Z in 1983 (as measured by the Consumer Price Index). The Bank
estimates the domestic inflation rate to remain relatively low in 1984 and
over the coming years. However, to safeguard against unforeseen future devel-
opments, an agreement was reached with the Government, BPMB and MIDF that
lending rates would be mutually reviewed on an annual basis in light of the
cost of funds for BPMB and MIDF, their profitability and interest structure
and inflation rates in Malaysia.
1.16      In addition to these general interest rates, there are lower
mandated rates for "priority" sectors/purposes. Loans for poverty eradication
carry interest at OZ-2Z and those for social restructuring at 5%. Rates for
agriculture and housing loans made by government-owned specialized financial
institutions are also lower than the market rates. Loans for small-scale
enterprises are at the mandated rates of 7.5%-9.5% and are made by commercial
banks (see the following section). The average rates for total outstanding
credit are not very low, however, e.g., for the major sectors of agriculture,
manufacturing and trade, the commercial banks' weighted average rates were
11.9%, 11.2% and 11.6% respectively, as of December 31, 1983. Although exact
data are not available, it is estimated that about 25% of total outstanding
credit is at lower than market rates.
1.17      Financing of small-scale enterprises.  SSEs obtain credit from
commercial banks and from specialized financial institutions created for that
purpose. The commercial banks lend to SSEs at lower than market rates under a
mandatory credit allocation scheme which fixes a quota for each bank. They
account for a major share of total institutionaL credit to SSEs. The two
principal specialized institutions, Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB)
and Majlis Amanah Rakyat (MARA), lend to Bumiputera enterprises only. MARA
lends to very small borrowers (in amounts generally not exceeding M$50,000) at
highly subsidized rates. BPMB lends to small- and medium-size borrowers. The
combined loans outstanding of these two specialized institutions to SSEs are
2_-3Z of the banking sector's total outstanding loans to the small-scale
sector. Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad (MIDF), the only
private development bank in the country, also lends to SSEs but such loans
constitute a small proportion of its total portfolio. It plans to play a more
significant role in this regard in the future, and will be the second
institution, in addition to BPMB, to participate in the proposed project.
Both these institutions provide long-term capital, practice project-based
lending and possess the capabilities to help small entrepreneurs in project
design and implementation.
1.i8      Commerial banks are required to lend to all SSEs at an interest rate
of 7.5%-8.5%. As there is no rediscounting or reimbursement mechanism, this
generally results in a negative spread on this segment of their lending.
Nevertheless, commercial bank lending to SSEs has continued to grow because of
mandatory targets by Bank Negara and imposition of penalties if the targets
are not met. Total outstanding loans to SSEs rose from M$2.9 billion at the
end of 1981, to M$3.2 billion at the end of 1982 and further to M$3.5 billion
at the end of 1983, when they accounted for about 1OZ of the total port-
folio. Although exact data are not available, short-term collateralized loans
for working capital account for a high proportion of the total outstanding



credit to SSEs as would be expected given the rates at which the commercial
banks are required to lend, which gives them no incentive to lend longer term
on project basis. Sectorally, trade accounted for a high proportion and manu-
facturing for a relatively very small share. Also, the share of the target
group borrowers in the outstanding loans for SSEs has been under 25Z for loans
up to M$50,000 and under 20Z for larger loans. It should also be noted that
commercial banks do not provide supporting technical services to unsophis-
ticated borrowers. Most of commercial bank credit is apparentLy to traders
for inventories. The project would increase long-term institutional credit
principally to finance manufacturing projects and couple it with technical
assistance to provide an integrated package of finance and technical services
for the target group SSEs which presently do not receive adequate institu-
tional credit and quality technical assistance.
Bank Strategy for Industrial Sector Lending
1.19      The proposed loan will be the Bank's first industry-related opera-
tion in Malaysia in some two decades. While the proposed project is focused
on the small-scale sector, it has contributed to a dialogue on more general
industrial sector issues and to the development of a broader lending pro-
gram. The Government recognizes the importance of the industrial sector and
the role it has to play if the country is to meet its objectives of overall
economic growth and employment. To come to grips with major sectoral issues,
the Covernment has already undertaken an Industrial Policy Studies Project
(para. 1.03). The project is being satisfactorily implemented under close
supervision by the Bank. Its results, expected by the end of 1984, will lead
to further discussions with the Government on specific policy reforms. The
Bank plans to give operational support to the policy recommendations which
will emerge through a new *ndustrial development finance project which is
currently in the identification stage. In the meanwhile, the proposed project
has been designed to address the constraints on SSE development (para. 1.11)
and to diversify entrepreneurship within this subsector.
I-I. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
2.01      The main objective of the project is to develop those SSEs in
Malaysia which presently do not receive adequate institutional credit and
quality technical assistance. More specifically, the objectives of the
project are to: (a) expand and rationalize the technical assistance programs
for the SSEs, and strengthen the institutions providing those programs; (b)
increase the supply of institutional credit, particularly longer term credit
which can be tapped by the target group and undertake a major institution-
building effort for BPMB, the principal institution providing financial
assistance to this group, and expand the SSE program of MIDF; and (c; improve
the coordination of financial and technical services to these entrepreneurs so
that they receive, in an integrated fashion, the full range of services they
need to modernize their enterprises.



- 8 -
2.02      The project supports over the next three years, a long-term program
to develop SSEs. It will have two broad components: technical assistance (TA)
and credit. The TA component aims to overcome the qualitative deficiencies in
the existing programs and expand them selectively. Under the credit comr
ponent, some 1,100-1,200 loans will be made by BPMB and MIDF to individual
borrowers for fixed assets and permanent working capital. Mechanisms are also
built into the project design to improve the integration of TA and credit
services, and to set up, for the first time, a comprehensive system for
monitoring and evaluation of TA.
2.03      SSEs are defined for project purposes as all enterprises with
owners' equity not exceeding M$300,000 (US$133,333). It is expected that all
SSEs thus defined will fall within the earlier statistical definition in terms
of number of employees (para. 1.04). The smallest of the SSEs are not
expected to be major beneficiaries under the project because they are able to
borrow from MARA (individual loans of less than M$50,000 (US$22,222)) at
heavily subsidized rates of interest and would not be interested in borroving
at the 9Z-1lZ plus rates proposed under the project (see para. 3.05).
Although all sectors except for pure agriculture (because Bank Pertanian
already caters to small loans in that sector) will be eligible for credit and
technical assistance for management improvement, the technological/engineering
assistance program under the project will focus particularly on the following
four industrial subsectors: food processing; light engineering and metal
working; wood, bamboo and rattan-based industries; and selected construction
materials. These subsectors account for more than 60% of both total value
added and employment of all SSEs, and offer competitive advantages and good
growth prospects for the less developed SSEs. Beneficiary enterprises may be
located anywhere in the country and the participating agencies have been
selected keeping in mind their geographic outreach; however, the bulk of the
assistance will probably go to enterprises located in and around the major
urban centers in accordance with the expected growth pattern of SSEs.
A. Technical Assistance Component
Status of Existing Technical Assistance Programs
2.04      In the decade following the enunciation of the NEP, 8 ministries and
24 agencies responded to its call to bring SSEs into the mainstream of
commerce and industry with a variety of development programs. Unfortunately,
no detailed development scheme or common framework within which these agencies
could work was created. Some programs were essentially social in nature,
focussing on direct poverty alleviation; others stressed financial or
technical assistance. Within the TA programs, some emphasized management
functions (bookkeeping, finance, marketing, etc.), while others emphasized
technological functions (engineering, production, quality control, etc.).
Proportionately, more effort has, so far, been directed to tiny (cottage size)
businesses (mostly retailers) than to small- and medium-size firms because the
limited technical assistance abilities of the agencies were better suited to
the needs of these tiny firms. With the recognition that serious voids and
overlaps existed, an interagency Coordinating Council for the Development of
Small Enterprises (CCDSE) was created in 1981. This Council, chaired by the



- 9 -
Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, is responsible for overall policy
planning and coordination of all programs affecting SSEs. However, the
coordination between agencies at the client level and between the technical
assistance agencies and financial institutions is still weak. In addition,
the monitoring and evaluation of technical assistance has been, at best,
fragmentary, and no standardized methods are in use.
2.05      The project's primary thrust will be on qualitative improvement of
the existing programs through program rationalization and modifications,
improvements in physical facilities (laboratory and workshop equipment, build-
ings), craining of staff and fellowships (mostly foreign) and recruitment of
advisors/experts (mostly expatriate, some for as long as two years). Emphasis
will also be on improvement of coordination mechanisms (para. 2.08) and on
monitoring and evaluation of all programs on a continuing basis. There will
also be an expansion of programs to reach a larger number of beneficiaries on
a wide geographic basis.
Participating Agencies
2.06      In addition to the Small Enterprise Division (SED) of the Ministry
of Trade and Industry, which is operationally responsible for all SSE develop-
ment programs in the country, five major agencies will be participating in the
project. The National Productivity Center (NPC) and Malaysian Entrepreneurial
Development Center (MEDEC) will provide managerial assistance to existing and
new entrepreneurs respectively. The Food Technology Division (FTD) of
Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute, the Standards and
Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (SIRIM) and the Forest Research
Institute (FRI) will provide technical/engineering assistance to specific
sectors. These are the principal institutions in the country offering
technical assistance to SSEs and account for the bulk of the TA programs. Of
the 5 TA agencies, two will offer managerial assistance, one of which will be
exclusively for new and potential entrepreneurs; the other three offer sector-
specific technical assistance. Any client under the program will consequently
deal with two TA agencies at most. The functions and roles of these institu-
tions are discussed in paras. 2.07 to 2.40 and the proposed coordination
mechanism among all institutions participating in the project is discussed in
para. 2.41.
2.07      Small Enterprise Division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(SED). The SED was established in 1981 to assume the responsibility for
overseeing the development of SSEs in the country. It has a Director, Deputy
Directors for Research and Planning and Operations, four Assistant Directors
and seven supporting staff. It is also the Secretariat of the CCDSE. In the
context of the proposed project, plans have been drawn up for considerable
strengthening of the SED. The principal role of the SED under the proposed
project will be to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the TA efforts by the
primary agencies, develop marketing information and resources, and engage in
planning, research and policy review.
2.08      Another important and new function to be undertaken by SED relates
to monitoring and evaluation of TA programs for SSEs in Malaysia. At present,
each agency uses some method of counting the number of training courses held,



- 10 -
clients contacted, etc. but these attempts at assessing the impact of TA
efforts are not fully adequate. Under the proposed project, the SED will
engage an advisor/consultant for two years to develop systems for monitoring
and evaluating the TA programs of the agencies which are members of the CCDSE,
with special emphasis on the agencies participating in the project. The
monitoring system will measure the TA inputs in terms of manpower and money,
and will analyse, on an on-going basis, such things as the numbers and types
of training programs, manhours of training provided, number of attendees,
types and sources of attendees and the geographic and sectoral coverage of
training. It will also monitor the advisory/consulting work of each agency.
The consultant will also develop an evaluation system for the TA agencies
which will measure the effectiveness or the qualitative aspects (impact) of
their TA work. After the above systems are developed, the consultant will
place them in full operation, develop manuals, and train the staff of SED in
the operation and use of the systems. The monitoring and evaluation systems
will aid the Government in allocating resources more effectively, and will
enable the agencies to evaluate their programs and improve them. The systems
will also enable the CCDSE to improve its work of program and policy
development to promote future institutional rationalization.
2.09      The SED will also carry out a number of marketing related
functions. These will include identifying opportunities and providing promo-
tional assistance in exporting the products of SSIs; developing and imple-
menting a subcontracting program and improving Government procurement programs
for SSEs; fostering the development of associations of SSEa to aid in raw
material procurement, common facilities development, and finished goods mar-
keting; developing a close working relationship with Associations and Chambers
of Commerce; conducting market research for all major SSE subsectors; and pro-
viding market information support for NPC and MEDEC training and counseling
work. The SED will also serve as a repository of specialized information
(studies, papers, reports, etc.) on SSEs. It will develop a broad-based
library of publications on SSEs for the benefit of other government agencies
and for entrepreneurs. SED will conduct or commission studies to develop
specialized information on SSEs. For example, SED is presently having a
comprehensive interfirm study made on the key financial ratios for all of the
main sectors in which SSEs operate.
2.10      SED's primary needs for additional resources to carry out its part
under the proposed project are for manpower, advisors and staff training. The
Government will supply the manpower; provision has been made in the Ministry
of Trade and Industry's budget request for 1985. An advisor to develop the
monitoring and evaluation system is the most vital, as well as the most
costly, requirement. SED has also requested the services of an advisor to
review the entire field of SSE linkages to larger firms and sales to the
Government. The emphasis will be on ensuring timely dissemination of infor-
mation to bring buyers and sellers together and for that purpose to set up a
subcontracting exchange. It is expected that the two advisors will be in
place by mid-1985. Of the total funding under the project of M$1.04 million,
about 75Z will be for these two advisors. The other major cost is for
training of its relatively new staff, while a small amount is provided for
some office equipment and library facilities. Details of SED's fund require-
ments and the terms of reference for the advisors, agreed with SED, are con-
tained in the Project File.



- 11 -
2.11      The National Productivity Center (NPC) is the principal institution
in the country to provide entrepreneurship, management training and consult-
ancy to SSEs. It has given up providing assistance to new or potential entre-
preneurs to avoid duplication of functions with the Malaysian Entrepreneurial
Development Center and now concentrates on providing assistance to established
SSEs. It is under the direction of a Council which is appointed by the
Minister of Trade and Industry. The Bumiputera Service Section, which will be
the focal point for the project, currently has a total staff of 58; it will be
increased to 79 in the next two years to meet the project demands. The bud-
getary process to add the additional staff has already started.
2.12      Under the proposed project, NPC will assist BPMB and MIDF by pro-
viding training for some of their existing and new clients. In addition,
under the coordination mechanism being set up, NPC will also be closely in
touch with the technological agencies that are involved in the proposed
project and provide management training, advisory and counseling services to
the SSE ciients of those agencies. These agencies wilL, in turn, provide NPC
with technological information and support for its managerial programs.
2.13      NPC will provide training and extension services from its head-
quarters in PetaLing Jaya and the three existing field offices in Penang,
Johor Bahru and Kuantan. Additional regional offices are proposed in Kedah,
and Kota Bharu. To ensure uniformity in course contents and better coordi-
nation with the technological/engineering agency concerned, NPC will be offer-
ing its management training and consulting programs on a sectoral basis. Each
course, which will last 2 to 3 days, will include sections on general and
specialized problems which entrepreneurs will face in their subsector in
general and production management, accounting, finance and marketing. A
three-year series of courses in each subsector will be offered for a total of
about 132 hours of training. The series of short courses makes it practical
for small-scale entrepreneurs to attend, (most could not be absent from their
business for a longer period), and to allow them sufficient time between
courses to apply the modules of information before attempting to absorb
more.
2.14      NPC has also been holding "how to" one-day workshops on such
subjects as: inventory control; quality control purchasing; cash flow manage-
ment; cost analysis; record keeping; pricing; and marketing. The workshop
programs will account for about 20% to 25% of the total NPC training work
during future years. These workshops enable small business owners and
employees who cannot leave their businesses for more than one day to benefit
from NPC training.
2.15      NPC's past concentration has been on training rather than on-site
counseling. It has recognized that to benefit fully from classroom training,
clients need to be visited at their place of business. It has therefore
planned a substantial expansion of extension work and, in the future, more
trainees will be followed up by NPC extension officers. This program of field
visits has already started. It is expected that about 2,500 trainees will be
visited in about 400 enterprises in 1985, increasing to about 3,000 trainees
in about 775 enterprises in 1987 and thereafter. Between 1973 and 1982, NPC
had provided training to some 21,000 persons; in 1982 alone some 5,000 persons



- 12 -
were trained. However, the past and future figures are not comparable
because, in the past, the emphasis was on training of very small and new
entrepreneurs.
2.16      The cost of the NPC subcomponent is estimated at M$1.24 million,
mainly for two advisors/experts, for one year each, in construction management
and marketing, to help NPC upgrade its training/teaching in those fields. Two
local experts in law and taxation will also be hired for six months each to
upgrade teaching material in these subjects. In addition, the project costs
provide for overseas training of NPC staff and purchase of some instructional
equipment and vehicles. Itemized details of NPC's cost estimates and terms of
reference for the advisors/consultants, already agreed with NPC, are contained
in the Project File.
2.17      The Mal-ysian Entrepreneurial Development Center (MEDEC) is the
second agency which will provide managerially-oriented TA programs. It is
part of the MARA Institute of Technology (Institute Teknologi MARA or ITM), of
the Ministry of Education. MEDEC is, at present, relatively small, with a
total staff of 14, including 7 full time lecturers. ITM has agreed to provide
MEDEC with L0 new lecturers/trainers and 1 new support staff as of January 1,
1985 to meet the project's requirements. This additional manpower has been
included in the 1985 budget request of the Ministry of Education.
2.18      MEDEC's role under the project will be to train potential entre-
preneurs to create new small-scale businesses. MEDEC's record in this area
has been very good. During the late 1970's and early 1980's, about 40% of the
potential entrepreneurs that attended MEDEC's Entrepreneur Development Program
(EDP) estabLished businesses and few failed. MEDEC attributes this high
success rate to its rigorous selection process and to continued association
with the trainees after they have completed the formal programs. MEDEC's work
will focus on its entrepreneurial development program which includes studies
in motivation, management skills, project selection, feasibility studies,
project preparation, financing, and company formation. It also provides for
field follow-up and short refresher seminars at the Shah Alam campus for
graduates of EDP programs.
2.19      A significant number of MEDEC's trainees have been sponsored by BPMB
and other organizations which sometimes also provide technical know-how for
some of the modules. The M$350 fee charged by MEDEC for the EDP is usually
paid by the trainees/participants. Because MEDEC is the only organization
that will be providing marnagement-oriented training to potential entre-
preneurs, it will get EDP candidates from all of the other participating
agencies. Conversely, as MEDEC increases its training efforts, it will need
increasing amounts of technical information and guest le-turers from the
technical agencies and the two participating financial institutions.
2.20      In addition to improving the quality of its management-oriented
training programs, MEDEC's plans under the proposed project envisage a very
substantial increase in the number of trainees. During the 7-year period
1977-1983, a total of 489 individuals attended MEDEC's EDP. With the expected
increase of more than 100% in full time lecturers/trainers in 1985, EDP's
output is expected to increase to 450 participants in 1985 and to 600 annually
from 1986 onward.



- 13 -
2.21      MEDEC conducts 3-day follow-up seminars for EDP participants,
focused on functional areas, such as record keeping, finance, marketing,
etc. Ten of these seminars, totalling 300 participants, are scheduled for
1984. The MEDEC staff also counsels individual EDP participants who are
setting up or operating a business, both at Shah Alam and occasionally in the
field. Manpower, vehicle, and expense limitations have prevented MEDEC from
carrying out the amount of field follow-up work which is needed to optimize
the results of EDP training. Resources provided in the context of the
proposed project will help to alleviate this problem and also enable MEDEC to
significantly expand its programs.
2.22      The estimated additional resources needed by MEDEC to meet the
proposed projects' requirement would amount to M$l.46 million, in addition to
the recurrent cost of the additional staff which will be borne by the ITM bud-
get. The main items are classroom and instructional equipment (including
audio visual), some furniture and vehicles needed for field follow-up work and
for transporting trainers to outstations to hold training programs and
trainees for industry visits, overseas training of staff, and two advisors to
strengthen MEDEC's faculty. Both advisors will be for 12 months each; one
will be for small business management training and the other for small
business consultancy. These advisors will train MEDEC staff and help develop
teaching material. Detailed cost estimates and terms of reference for the
advisors, agreed with MEDEC, are in the Project File.
2.23      The Food Technology Division (FTD) of MARDI has been included in the
proposed project because it is the principal organization in Malaysia engaged
in developing the food processing industry. Its present staff is 285, organ-
ized into five sections. FTD has identified about 700 small-scale food pro-
cessors which are well suited for development into firms which can compete in
the domestic and export markets. Most of these 700 SSEs are quite ignorant of
equipment selection, plant layout, food processing techniques, handling pro-
cedures, packaging methods which will give adequate shelf life, and marketing
techniques. They also need more instruction in raw material purchasing and in
production management techniques. Under the proposed project, FTD will be
equipped to carry out more training and extension work to bring the level of
expertise of these small food processors up to a point where they can compete
more effectively. In addition, its program will be better integrated with the
programs of other organizations to insure that all of its clients' needs are
well met; and those organizations will call on FTD when they need techno-
logical help with their small food processing clients.
2.24      FTD will also continue to work with other organizations that will
provide aid in marketing the products of small food processors, including
Pernas Edar (PE), the largest food wholesaler in Malaysia, with a large net-
work of retailers. Although the marketing organizations will not be funded
under the project, the small, independent retailers and wholesalers with whom
these organizations work will be eligible for both financial and technical
assistance under the project.
2.25      In 1983, FTD held 11 formal training courses for over 100 trainees,
and conducted 26 ad-hoc training programs by request of various agencies and
groups of entrepreneurs. In 1984, FTD expects to present 31 formal 2-3 day



- 14 -
courses and 3 workshops, for more than 300 trainees. (Some entrepreneurs will
attend more than one of the FTD's various courses.) Each formal course lasts
2 to 3 days. Most formal courses are product oriented. In addition, the ad-
hoc courses offer such subjects as quality control, process problem solving,
and packaging. The facilities to be provided by the project will enable FTD
to markedly improve the quality of training because the inadequate, small
research type equipment which has, out of necessity, been used for training
will be replaced by online processing equipment which is suitable for SSE food
processing plants. This will enable FTD to make much more effective demon-
strations, and to provide entrepreneurs with "hands-on" training. FTD plans
to provide 40 or more higher quality training courses in 1985, with as many as
1,200 participants. FTD will also provide consulting and advisory services to
small-scale food processors from four regional centers. FTD's extension
officers will also aid BPMB and MIDF in making feasibility studies, determin-
ing clients' plant and equipment needs, and evaluating entrepreneurs' tech-
nical and marketing abilities and provisions regarding pollution prevention,
health and safety aspects.
2.26      A special feature of FTD activities is its 3-year, in-depth
"adoption" program, which was inaugurated in 1982 with 10 of its most promis-
ing clients. This scheme involves completely overhauling a small firm's pro-
duction processes, quality control, packaging and product line. It aids in
getting new financing for plant and equipment through close liaison with
financial institutions.  In 1983, the number of "adoptees" was increased to
20. FTD plans to place 45 firms in this program in 1984, and even more in
1985. The adoption program should be strengthened by the "Intensive Advisory
Service" scheme of NPC which can be used by FTD to provide "adopted" clients
with in-depth, on-site management counseling; and NPC's management training
should supplement FTD's technological training of these clients.
2.27      FTD also intends to increase its outreach to small-scale food
processors starting in 1984 through a newly created "Intensive Extension
Program." Although this program is somewhat less intensive than the "adop-
tion" scheme, it does call for an FTD officer to visit each client 2 or 3
times each quarter and to spend I to 2 days with the client each visit. Most
firms will be kept in this program 1 to 3 years. FTD has selected 49 firms
for the "Intensive Extension Program" for 1984 and more will be included in
1985.
2.28      The proposed project will enable FTD to expand and improve the
quality of its TA program for small-scale food processors.  Suitable buildings
and equipment for SSE TA work will be provided at the four FTD regional loca-
tions to provide complete geographic coverage. Each center will be provided
with quality control and testing equipment for training and problem solving.
The FTD headquarters at Serdang will also have well equipped central proces-
sing and training facilities for formal, major training programs, additional
research facilities, and a workshop for the fabrication of new designs of
processing equipment suitable for small-scale food processing plants. FTD's
on-site advisory and consulting work will be expanded significantly under the
project and an appropriate number of vehicles has been included for each
center to enable the extension officers to cover the states assigned to
them. FTD would also receive funds for two advisors (one each in mechanical



- 15 -
engineering and food engineering) for 12 months each, and a relativeLy small
amount for overseas training of its staff. The total cost of the FTD sub-
component is estimated at M$6.62 million. Detailed cost estimates and terms
of reference of the advisors, already agreed with FTD, are in the Project
File.
2.29      The Forest Research Institute (FRI) of the Forestry Department
(under the Ministry of Primary Industry) had 541 employees in 1982. Plans are
being made for FRI to tecome an independent statutory body and to intensify
its research activities and to develop a greater outreach to provide
information and advice to both the Government and commercial enterprises.
2.30      At present, there are no satisfactory arrangements to provide tech-
nical assistance to SSEs engaged in forest-based product manufacturing. FRI
was selected to participate in the proposed project because it is the most
knowledgeable and best suited organization in Malaysia to provide technologi-
cally-oriented training and consultancy in wood, bamboo, and rattan pro-
ducts. Although its research in the development, management, and utilization
of forest products has provided the FRI with extensive knowledge in wood and
woodworking, it has done little in the past for SSEs other than to provide
individual advisory service for those who have made inquiries.
2.31      Since FRI decided very recently to launch this new effort, its full-
scale operation is not expected to be underway until the second half of
1985. FRI plans to offer 15 courses to 92 trainees in eight subjects in
1985-86 and double this in 1987. FRI programs will provide SSEs with both
design and manufacturing training. The wood products training will include
several basic courses in the kiln drying, turning, moulding, and preserving of
wood. These foundation courses will enable entrepreneurs to manufacture a
variety of wood products, such as building components, industrial products,
and commercial and household furniture. Separate six-week courses will be
offered in rattan and bamboo-based products.
2.32      The training programs will start at FRI headquarters in Selangor
where FRI has available extensive research and experimental processing facili-
ties, a library, research files and a well trained professional staff. A
hotel facility adjacent to the Institute's compound can be used to house
trainees. FRI is willing to develop training facilities at other locations as
needed. Separate training workshops will be constructed for the wood, bamboo,
and rattan courses, and made available on a fee basis for certain production
operations by SSEs that have not yet been able to justify the purchase of
certain pieces of equipment. FRI will also establish a wholesale depot for
certain desirable, lesser known woods which are not commonly available.
2.33      FRI will continue to provide individuaL advisory service to entre-
preneurs who visit FRI headquarters; their number is expected to multiply as
its SSE program becomes well known. It also expects to provide extension
services to BPMB and MIDF clients and to NPC and MEDEC management program
trainees throughout the country. FRI consultants will complement the work of
these agencies by providing technological support in design, plant layout,
equipment selection, processing techniques, and problem solving for SSE entre-
preneurs in the wood, bamboo, and rattan manufacturing sectors.



- 16 -
2.34      The estimated cost of the FRI component of the project is
M$4.19 million. The major cost items are the training buildings, workshops, a
power plant with boiler and substation, an exhaust/extraction plant, three
expatriate advisors and overseas staff training. Cost details are in the
Project File.
2.35      Three consultants will be needed for one year each to survey
conditions among small forest product-based businesses to finalize the train-
ing course contents and methods, to develop course designs, create training
manuals, audiovisual and other instructional materials, and to train FRI
staff. One consultant will specialize in design/marketing, one in wood pro-
ducts manufacturing, and the third in bamboo and rattan products. Terms of
reference, agreed with FRI, are in the Project File.
2.36      Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (SIRIM) is
responsible for establishing industrial standards in Malaysia and for under-
taking various kinds of industrial research. It also ansists industry
directly by providing TA in the light engineering, metalworking, plastic and
construction material subsectors. It is administered by a Council appointed
by the Minister of Science, Technology, and Environment. In addition to its
headquarters in Selangor, it has branches in Trengganu, Johore, Sabah and
Sarawak. SIRIM has a staff of about 220 engineers, scientists and econo-
mists.  The Industrial Extension Unit (IEU), within the Division of Consul-
tancy and Technology Transfer, will be the focus of the proposed project as it
is this unit primarily concerned with small-scale industry.  The IEU provides
technologically-oriented consultancy and extension services.  It includes
problem solving, upgrading production processes, improving plant Layout, raw
materials selection, quality control, the design and fabrication of equipment
and anti-pollution measures. SIRIM receives many referrals for these services
from other agencies, such as NPC, MEDEC, FRI, MARDI, BPMB and MIDF. Demon-
stration projects are geared to introduce new technoLogy to SSI; and SIRIM-
designed, special machinery is displayed.
2.37      Under the proposed project, SIRIM will provide technologically-
oriented training and consulting in the light engineering, construction
material, and plastics subsectors. Although work with SSIs has been a minor
part of SIRIM's overall work, it has the potential to make very large contri-
bution to SSI. By developing a more meaningful training and consultancy pro-
gram for small industry within SIRIM, some of the very considerabLe fund of
knowledge which has been developed through its extensive research facilities
and workshops can be provided to SSIs.
2.38      IEU conducted 6 demonstration projects in L981 for 35 participants
and 13 in 1982 for 40 participants. In 1983, IEU, with 13 officers, handled
inquiries from or visited, a total of 90 SSI clients. Since this level of
assistance is clearly inadequate, SIRIM has developed a plan to add personnel
and substantially increase its ability to provide advisory and consulting
services to play a more meaningful role in the proposed project. The IEU
plans to increase the number of officers to 25 in 1984 and 44 in L985. The
officers also prepare industry profiles and working papers, take part in
seminars, workshops and courses, and give demonstrations.



-17 -
2.39      Currently, the IEU is housed in rented facilities located at a
distance from SIRIM workshops, laboratories, library, and headquarters, and it
has no training facilities of its own. In the past, IEU's training function
was limited to whenever they were invited to participate in NPC and MEDEC
programs. To expand its training programs, IEU needs its own training facili-
ties. Provision for a 12,000 sq. ft. wing at the headquarters building has
been made in the project. Starting in 1986, all training programs related to
technological aspects of light engineering, plastic and construction materials
industries will be hosted by IEU in its new building. The plan is to conduct
7 courses for 120 participants in 1985, increasing to 11 courses for 220
participants in 1986.
2.40      In addition to the new building, SIRIM will also need additional
equipment, training and fellowships for its staff. Equipment includes
demonstration and instructional workshop facilities, office furniture, a comr
puter for information service and a jeep. Training cost wilL be incurred in
sending staff to selected foreign institutions over a three-year period. The
total cost of the SIRIM subcomponent is estimated at M$3.23 million; itemized
cost details are contained in the Project File.
2.41      Coordination.  Effective coordination of all SSE programs is of
utmost importance. Overall policy and program planning is done through
CCDSE. However, actual program coordination at the agency, as well as at the
client level, is not very effective at present. Understandings were reached
at negotiations on a detailed coordination mechanism, based on the
Covernment's proposals for coordination among the several agencies involved,
and an agreement was reached on this point. As a long-term measure, an
autonomous government corporation would be created, into which would be merged
all the existing agencies providing cechnical assistance to SSEs. However, it
was recognized that the creation of such an overall autonomous body was not
practical in the short run because of the need to develop a consensus among
several ministries, and for subsequent detailed planning leading to major
legislative action. Therefore, for this project, all the participating
agencies, including the two financial institutions, have formed a committee
called the Action Committee for Small Enterprises Development Project which
would meet fortnighcly to discuss the status of the individual clients and to
coordinate their work with those clients. The committee is headed by BPMB
which is also providing its secretariat. In addition, the SED has created a
new position of a Project Coordinator who will attend all meetings of the
Action Committee, monitor its work and act as the link between this micro
level Committee and the macro level CCDSE. The Project Coordinator will be
appointed no later than December 31, 1984 and will be provided with staff as
needed. It is recognized that the coordination mechanism agreed now may need
to be modified in light of the actual project implementation exper:ence.
Assurances were obtained that the GovLrnment will prepare an annual progress
report for the Bank, starting December 31, 1985, which will provide the basis
for consultations between the Government and the Bank.
B. Credit Component
2.42      Under the credit component of the proposed project, medium- and
long-term loans will be made by BPMB and MIDF to individual SSEs for fixed



- 18 -
assets and for permanent working capital. The average loan size is expected
to be about M$170,000 and M$200,000 for BPMB and MIDF respectively. The
maximum size of a subloan will be M$750,000. An estimated 1,100-1,200
subloans will be made under the project over a period of up to three years.
2.43      BPMB and MIDF were selected because they are the major existing
specialized development finance institutions with long experience in term
lending to SSEs and close relationship with the extension service institu-
tions. BPMB was established by the Government for the sole purpose of provid-
ing financial assistance to Bumiputera enterprises. MIDF is a predominantly
private-owned and managed development bank and was the first institution of
its kind in the country when it was set up in 1960. As part of its develop-
ment role, it established a Bumiputera Division in 1978, which will be the
focal point for the proposed project. MIDF's present loan portfolio for the
target group enterprises is relatively small (less than 20%); it is expected
that, as a result of the project, MIDF's role in providing assistance to the
target group SSEs will be significantly enhanced.
2.44      Because of BPMB's pivotal role in providing financial assistance to
small- and medium-scale enterprises, a major institution-building program is
being undertaken under this project to enhance its long-term institutional
performance.
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB)
2.45      Nature and role.  BPMB was established in 1974 as one of the special
institutional vehicles to help achieve greater participation by target group
entrepreneurs in business and industry. This mandate called for BPMB to
provide services beyond the scope of conventional development banks, and BPMB
has been encouraged in this endeavor by the Government. Promotional orienta-
tion is essential. Its operations are by their nature costly. However, to
ensure its financial health, the Covernment has provided BPMB with the
necessary resources at highly subsidized interest rates. This assured supply
of subsidized funding may also have resulted in BPMB undertaking some cost
ineffective programs leading to operational inefficiencies. In view of the
current budget constraints, however, the Government is no longer able to meet
all the funding requirements, and BPMB is expected from now on to raise part
of its total resource requirements in the capital market at market rates.
This is bound to increase BPMB's overall resource costs. BPMB has,
consequently, reached a period of transition, where it has to reposition
itself to ensure long-term financial viability without abandoning its basic
objective. The World Bank will not only provide a new source of funding to
help BPMB begin to rely less heavily on highly constrained budgetary resources
but will also provide institutional support during BPMB's transition phase
towards becoming a more commercially-oriented financial institution. During
the project preparation phase, BPMB prepared, and its Board of Directors
approved, a Policy Statement and a Statement of Operational Strategies
(including an Action Program) to guide BPMB through this transition period
(Annexes 2 and 3).
2.46      BPMB was incorporated as a limited liability company under the
Companies Act with an authorized share capital of M$100 million (of which



- !9 -
M$64.4 million is paid up), almost all of which is held by the Government
(Ministry of Finance). The supervision authority is vested in the Ministry of
Public Enterprises.
2.47      Management and staff.  BPMB's Board of Directors comprises 7 members
including the Chief Executive Officer of the institution and his deputy.
They, together with the Chairman of the Board (an ex-Minister and businessman)
and one other director, represent the private sector, while the remaining
three directors are representatives of the Government. There are two Loan
Committees for approval of loans of up to M$100,000 and M$300,000
respectively; loans in excess of M$300,000 are approved by the fall Board.
2.48      BPMB's staff of 417, as of March 31, 1984, included 161 profes-
sionals, 144 clerical and support staff and 106 operatives for its plant hire
scheme. Professional staff includes accountants, economists and engineers.
All new staff are subjected to a 3-4 week (in-house) introductory training
seminar, followed by intermediate and advanced training seminars in BPMB, as
well as outside. BPMB also makes extensive use of overseas training facili-
ties, such as The Association of Development Financing Institutions in Asia
and Pacific, Asian Development Bank and Economic Development Institute to
upgrade the skills of its staff. Expected growth of its operations would
require additional staff, and it has drawn up plans to recruit 65 new officers
during 1984-88, 7 of whom will be recruited in 1984. Additional appraisal and
supervision staff will only be needed from 1985 onward. Some of these will be
for the SSE program under the project. In addition to recruiting additional
staff, BPMB will also be concentrating on increasing its operational effi-
ciency significantly as there are clear indications of staff underutilization
(e.g., low staff output, high administrative expenses). BPMB has drawn up an
action program which, inter-alia, incorporates targets for improved staff
output. BPMB, for example, expects the average number of project appraisals
per project officer to increase from currently about 4 to 8 projects per year
by 1988. The efficiency improvement will come about through a comprehensive
training program (para. 2.62(b)) and the contribution which is expected from
the proposed expatriate advisors including any administrative streamlining
recommended by them (also see paras. 2.63 and 2.64). Fortunately, BPMB's pay
scales are competitive and given its prestige as an established development
bank in the country, staff turnover is not a problem.
2.49      Organization.  BPMB's organization chart ' attached as Chart II.
The Banking Division, one of BPMB's five divisions,_ is the main operations
department, responsible for project appraisal and supervision, and has 79
staff, including 39 professionals at branch office level. It is organized
along industry lines into three Operations Departments and an Engineering
Department. BPMB operates 10 regional offices with a total staff of 35
professionals that undertake project promotion, appraisal and supervision.
While BPMB's organization structure is adequate to accommodate the proposed
6/   The other four divisions are the following:  Administration and Services;
Planning, Research and Development; Deputy Chairman's Office; and Plant
Hire.



- 20 -
project, strengthening of the existing units, in terms of quantity and quality
of staff, is urgently required. The increasing emphasis on manufacturing
makes it necessary for BPMB to strengthen its engineering expertise and BPMB
would obtain an engineering advisor under the project with the necessary
experience to guide BPMB's engineering staff. Also very important is the
employment of a management information systems specialist under the same
program to strengthen and improve BPMB's monitoring and management information
system. BPMB would also purchase a computer under the project.
2.50      Operating policies.  BPMB's Policy Statement specifies that BPMB's
services are confined to target group entrepreneurs and that it assists
projects in the industrial sector, mining (except tin mining) and quarrying,
tourism, air, road and water transportation, and professional services. it
has recently (1983) been reouested by the Government to focus on the financing
of manufacturing enterprises. BPMB has, consequently, targeted an increasing
share of its lending to go to manufacturing, expected to increase from the
1983 level of about 46% to a level of about 70% of new commitments from 1986
onward. BPMB's normal minimum limit is M$50,000 for long-term loan financing
and M$30,000 for working capital loans. Although BPMB focusses on project
viability, it also requires full collateralization of its loans. In its
project appraisal, procurement, disbursement and supervision, BPMB fcllows the
usual DFC standards. BPMB's Policy Statement also limits its exposure in any
single enterprise to 20% of its paid-up capital and reserves and its equity
participations to 30% of the paid-up capital of the enterprises concerned.
Equity holdings are to be disposed of at the earliest opportunity. A change
in the Policy Statement will require prior approval by the Bank.
2.51      Project evaluation and supervision.  The quality of BPMB's appraisal
reports is generally satisfactory and allows consistent management decisions.
Coverage of some aspects, such as engineering, procurement and environment
protection, however, needs improvement, although BPMB's procurement procedures
were found to be satisfactory. The proposed Engineering Advisor is expected
to strengthen the coverage of these aspects, including the environmental
impact of the projects. FRRs are routinely calculated. BPMB does not under-
take full ERR analysis, but determines the partial indicators, such as employ-
ment cost, foreign exchange earnings/savings, etc. Given the size distribu-
tion of its operations and the nature of projects, full ERR analysis is not
necessary. Karketing aspects of the projects are generally satisfactorily
dealt with in the appraisal reports. Because of the promotional nature of its
operations, BPMB attaches great importance to project supervision. Problem
free projects are visited on a quarterly basis, while troubled projects are
monitored more intensively. Supervision reports are prepared after each
vislt. BPMB's supervision work is adequate and well organized. The number of
project visits per staff will, however, increase in the future in line with
efforts to improve staff efficiency. It is also expected that after the
Engineering Advisor has joined BPMB, the coverage of the technical aspect in
supervision would also improve.
2.52      BPMB's operations.  Details of BPMB's operations are given in
Annex 4, Table l. Lending operations constitute BPMB's main activi.y and have
historically accounted for about 80Z-90Z of total annual commitments. During
1979-81, loan commitments increased at an annual rate of 50X, but operations



- 21 -
were stagnant during 1981-83 because of the investment climate and resource
constraints, particularly in 1983. Loans are made with maturities of up to
15 years and 4 years for fixed assets and working capital financing res-
pectively; however, average actual maturities are much shorter. Recently, the
share of working capital loans has declined due to BPMB's resource con-
straints, accounting for about 22% of totaL loan commitments in 1983. BPMB
also provides, as part of its loan financing packages, or separately, medium-
and long-term guarantees for machinery and equipment credit from suppliers and
other financial institutions. BPMB also provides property development loans,
bridging finance, share financing, leasing and equity financing. Property
development loans are made to transform land already owned by the sponsor into
commercial use.  For this type of operation, BPMB charges commercial rates
(11Z-13Z). Such loans carry 7-10 year maturities. BPMB's bridging finance
scheme provides mediumr-term loans for financing up to 30Z of cost of commer-
cial and even residential buildings for rental purposes. Individual loans do
not exceed M$2 million and their duration does not exceed 2 years. To
increase Bumiputera participation in the corporate sector, BPMB has also
introduced share financing. There are-two schemes, one of which allows full
time employees or directors with regular remuneration to acquire shares in
their employer's company, and BPMB extends secured loans of up to a maximum of
2 years' income for this purpose. The other scheme does not require an
employer-employee relationship to be eligible for financing.  The maximum
amount-under this scheme is limited to M$2 million for a duration of up to
five years. Share financing loans account for about 6% of total operations.
Where BPHB considers leasing superior to loan financing, it proposes this
method of financing, and offers financial and operational lease arrangements
for new machinery and equipment. Leasing operations also account for about 7%
of total operations. Leases are limited to a maximum of five years. BPMB
also provides equity financing, mainly for the following reasons: (a) to help
materialize projects which are beyond the means of individuals; (b) to take up
equity to fulfill Bumiputera holding requirements; and (c) to revive and
restructure viable projects and to save them from foreclosure. Equity
investments account for about 11% of total operations.
2.53      In addition to the financing activities analyzed above, BPMB has two
other broad programs - entrepreneur development program and plant-hire scheme.
The Entrepreneur Development Program is to help overcome the shortage of suit-
able project sponsors, specifically in manufacturing. Under this program,
BPMB identifies and trains promising candidates, provides preinvestment
assistance, eventually finances their projects, if found feasible, and pro-
vides post-investment extension services. This assistance program is occa-
sionally coupled with BPMB's Nursery Factory Scheme, through which BPMB makes
available clusters of factory units for SSEs at subsidized rates, and venture
capital financing. Under the latter, BPMB provides equity financing between
M$30,000 to M$300,000 for EDP participants with worthwhile projects. The EDP
is important for BPMB's future growth since it helps to produce the necessary
demand for its services. So far, assistance provided under the EDP programs
does not account for more than 4% of BPMB's total annual operations. The
plant hire scheme is to encourage increased Bumiputera participation in con-
struction and civil works and to upgrade their level of skills. This scheme
is, as yet, available in five states only. Plant hire depots provide heavy
machinery exclusive or inclusive of operating personnel on short-term lease



- 22 -
arrangements at full cost including a reasonable profit margin. Principal
contractors for the government or para statal companies are eligible under
this scheme. Machinery purchase for this scheme is done on a competitive
basis. Total assets under this scheme amounted to M$8.5 million as of
December 31, 1983, and total revenues amounted to M$3.5 million for the year
then ended.
2.54      Characteristics of operations.  The largest share of BPMB's assis-
tance (about one-third by amount as well as number) is accounted for by the
manufacturing sector (of which the machinery, wood processing and food indus-
tries absorbed about 21%, 18% and 15X respectively). This is followed by
property development (16.4%), transportation (14.9%), professional services
(8.1%) and construction (5.3%). Loans of up to M$500,000 accounted for 86.5Z
and 28.2% by number and amount respectively of total commitments and loans in
excess of M$L million each for 5.8& and 52.3X respectively. New projects (as
contrast with balancing/modernization and expansion projects) accounted for
about 85% of BPMB's projects and absorbed about 78% of total financing. Geo-
graphically, Selangor (including the Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur),
accounts for 52% of total number and 64% of total amount of projects. Details
of the characteristics of BPMB's operations are given in Annex 4, Table 2.
2.55      A proper analysis of the economic aspects ?f BPMB's operations is
not possible because of lack of data. Sample data 7 collected for the ap-
praisal mission indicate that BPMB finances on average about 58% of total pro-
ject costs with a range of 15% to 901. Another 8Z was contributed by other
banks mainly for permanent working capital purposes, while the remaining 34%
came from the project sponsors themselves as equity contribution. The average
debt/equity ratio was thus about 2:1, ranging from as low as 0.3:1 to 10:1.
Only a small portion (6%) of all approved projects exported more than 30X of
total sales. FRRs were estimated to range from 7% to 19%, averaging 13%.
Total project costs were projected to average M$28,000 for each newly created
job, ranging by industry from about M$l,900 (contracting) to M$124,000 (pro-
fessional services). As a result of the installation of a proper management
information system and the input by the proposed advisors under the project,
more meaningful analysis of the impact of BPMB's operations would become
possible.
2.56      Financial structure and performance.  BPMB's balance sheets for the
years 1979 through 1983 are summarized in Annex 5, Table 1. During 1979-83,
BPMB's assets grew at an average annual rate of almost 43%, and amounted to
M$464.4 million as of December 31, 1983. BPMB's long-term loan portfolio
(including current maturities) and equity investments accounted for about 65%
and 9% of total assets respectively. Total assets were financed by current
liabilities (12.0%), term debts (69.4Z) and equity (18.6%). To date, BPMB has
depended almost exclusively on the Government for its resource needs. To
strengthen BPMB's capital base, the Government, in 1983, converted part of its
outstanding loans into capital. Furthermore, since BPMB does not pay divi-
7/   The sample comprised 55 projects accounting for about 5% of BPMB's
outstanding loan portfolio.



- 23 -
dends and is allowed to retain all its earnings, it substantially improved its
equity base, which stood at M$86.4 million as of December 31, 1983. According
to its Policy Statement, BPMB's long-term debt/equity ratio is limited to a
maximum of 5.0:1 and any change will be subject to prior approval by che
Bank. The actual debt/equity ratio, as of December 31, 1983, was 4.9:5. BPMB
has requested the Government that a part of the funds to be provided to BPMB
in 1984 should be in the form of equity. At negotiations, the Government
agreed to provide BPMB the necessary financial support to enable it to remain
within its long-term debt/equity ceiling. BPMB's liquidity position is
satisfactory with a current ratio of 2.9:1 as of December 31, 1983. Its
current interest and debt cover ratios are 13 and 5 times respectively.
2.57      Earning performance.  BPMB's income statements and financial
performance indicators are summarized in Annex 5, Tables 2 and 3 respect-
ively. Interest on loans outstanding accounted for 77.9% of BPMB's gross
income in 1983, while income from deposits and investments accounted for 13.4%
and 6.3% respectively. Since its inception, BPMB has obtained highly subsi-
dized government funding at interest rates between 0% and 5% (para. 2.61) and
has, therefore, had a very low resource cost. The cost of resources was 2.5%
of total assets in 1981 and declined further to 1.9% in 1983, compared to an
average lending rate of 9.5%. As a consequence, BPMB has been able, despite
subsidized lending programs and high administrative costs, to generate modest
profits of between 1.0% (1979) and 2.1% (1983) of total average assets. These
profits are net of provisions for doubtful accounts. Due to its particular
approach of comprehensive assistance and integrated programs, BPMB's adminis-
trative expenses are quite high, not falling below 2.8% of total assets
(1979-83).
2.58      Quality of portfolio.  BPMB's portfolio status, age structure of
loans in arrears and arrears by type of financing are summarized in Annex 6,
Tables 1-3. As of December 31, 1983, 503 of BPMB's 1,135 borrowers, or 44.3Z,
were in arrears with overdue payments of principal (M$23.7 million) and
interest (M$10.7 million) amounting to M$34.4 million, or 10.3% of its out-
standing loan portfolio. This amount also includes foreclosed accounts (134)
amounting to M$25.9 million which BPMB is trying to recover by liquidation of
assets pledged as collateral. Its experience in recovering arrears on fore-
closed accounts is encouraging. Th-s experience notwithstanding, BPMB will
have to focus on more efficient liquidating procedures in view of its current
resource constraints, which is part of BPNB's action program (para. 2.62(f)).
By amount, BPMB's arrears have declined from 13.4% of tota. loan portfolio in
1982 to 10.3Z in 1983; the portfolio affected by arrears also improved from
27% at the end of 1982 to 19% at the end of 1983. However, the number of
arrears cases has notably increased from 175 in 1982 to 503 in 1983 or from
18.6Z to 44.3% of all borrowers. Half of the total number of clients in
arrears are for less than 6 months and BPMB expects these clients to clear
their dues as soon as the overall business climate improves which should help
their cash flows.
2.59      In view of the high number of loans in arrears, BPMB has designed an
action program (para. 2.62) to reduce the arrears gradually over time.
Targets have been set to improve loan collection from currently 65% to 70% in
1984, 75% in 1985, 80% in 1986 and eventually 85% in 1988, resulting in a



- 24 -
reduction in arrears from about [0% of outstanding portfolio at the end of
1983 to 8% by 1988. To achieve these targets and particularly reduce the
number of arrears cases, BPMB has developed a comprehensive action program
which envisages, in addition to strengthened project appraisal, supervision
and intensified training, detailed organizational improvements, e.g., the
transfer of collection responsibility to the branch offices with close
monitoring by the Head Office. Future Bank supervision should, nevertheless,
monitor closely BPMB's collection efforts and progress in achieving the
targets.
2.60      Provisions.  Total provisions for doubtful accounts amounted to
M$7.3 million or 1.9Z of total portfolio, including equity investments as of
December 31, 1983, which almost conforms with BPMB's informal policy target of
2% of total portfolio. This level of provisions, which constitutes a decline
from previous year's 2.2Z, is not yet confirmed by BPMB's auditors (because
the 1983 audit is not yet completed) who normally determine provisions on the
basis of an account-by-account review of the portfolio in arrears and under
foreclosure. Due to its policy of full collateralization of loans, this level
of provisions covers its potential losses according to BPMB's management. A
statement to this effect will be incLuded in BPMB's future audit reports which
would conform to the Bank's requirements (a'so see para. 3.14).
2.61      Resource position.  BPMB's resource position as of December 31, 1983
is shown in Annex 7. The Government has beer. BPMB's almost exclusive source
of funds and has provided 18 loans totalling M$316.5 million in addition to
the subscription of BPMB's capital. These loans are all long term and carry
interest rates of between OZ-5%. Some of the loans were subsequently con-
verted into equity. As of December 31, 1983, BPMB's total term resources
amounted to M$417.5 million of which M$361.2 million had been disbursed for
loans, equity investments and fixed assets. BPMB had done its resource plan-
ning in the past on a cash flow basis and since, at the start of 1984, it had
only about M$56 million to cover undisbursed commitments of some M$103 mil-
lion, leaving a finance gap of some M$47 miLlion on a commitment basis.
Altnough some of the commitments are likely to be cancelled, BPMB will need
some additional resources to reduce this gap. This issue was addressed during
appraisal and BPMB has developed a revised funding plan for 1984-88 as part of
its new corporate strategy (para. 2.68) which reduces this gap to a manageable
level. This plan foresees M$429 million and $340 million, respectively, in
government and private borrowings between 1984-88. Details on BPMB's resource
requirements for 1984-88 are contained in para. 2.68.
2.62      Action program and technical assistance for BPMB.  In the past, BPMB
was able to secure all its resources as highly subsidized budget allocations
from the Government. The emphasis was on expanding functions and adding new
activities, and there was no pressure to contain costs. In the future, how-
ever, BPMB will have to tap the capital market which will inevitably result in
raising resource costs. This, in conjunction with relatively high administra-
tive expenses, large number of loans in arrears, and a poor collection per-
formance has forced BPMB to rethink its approach.  In the context of the ye-
paration of the proposed project, the Bank helped BPMB evolve a strategy,-
which, inter alia, foresees: (i) an increase in BPMB's lending rates; (ii) a
review of its more subsidized programs aimed at containing costs and implying



- 25 -
a redeployment of increasingly scarce and costly resources; and (iii) an
action program which deals with BPMB's organizational weaknesses and ineffici-
encies. More specifically, the action program has the following features:
(a) Strengthening of the Management Information System (MIS). BPMB's
present MIS does not provide sufficient and reliable information to
ensure a systematic and timely review of its operational perfor-
mance. BPMB plans to employ a management consultant to be financed
under the technical assistance component of the project. As a first
step, BPMB has already completed a preliminary analysis of its data
collection and recording system with the view of making more
intensive use of computerization. It currently relies on time
sharing for its general ledger and several other operations but has
reached the limits of this arrangement. BPMB, therefore, intends to
acquire a computer under the technical assistance component of the
project to be self-sufficient. In addition, mini computers will be
acquired for the brarch offices. The necessary software for loan
administration has already been acquired. However, BPMB's streamr-
lining of its data collection and recording system is only a first
step towards the adoption and implementation of a satisfactory MIS.
(b) Intensification of staff utilization and training. In the past,
BPMB has not efficiently used its staff resources, particularly its
appraisal and supervision staff. A relatively low output per staff
year has resulted in relatively high administrative costs. To
improve the situation, BPMB has introduced efficiency targets which
it intends to monitor closely. BPMB also realizes that additional
training is needed to arrive at these higher output targets and is
streamlining and intensifying its training. In a deviation from its
previous practice of providing training of a rather general nature,
BPMB plans to provide seminars on more specialized subjects, such as
entrepreneur development, project implementation and rehabilitation,
analysis of potential problem projects and environmental require-
ments with the assistance of the proposed technical advisor. During
1984, BPMB plans to conduct 8 major seminars for a total of 153
officers of whom new recruits are expected to account for about
26%. BPMB has always placed great emphasis on training and the
proposed targets appear to be realistic. Details of the training
program are contained in the Statement of Operational Strategies
(Annex 5).
(c) Project evaluation. A sharper focus on the potential problem of
projects, intensified training of its appraisal staff, a review of
its appraisal procedures by the Senior Advisor to be hired under the
technical assistance component of the project and the recuritment of
an Engineering Advisor, are expected to improve the quality of
BPMB's project appraisal. These measures are specifically aimed at
81   The full text of the Statement of Operational Strategies, approved by
BPMB's Board, is contained in Annex 5.



- 26 -
making the appraisal reports more analytical and problem oriented
and less descriptive. A new section in the appraisal reports will
deal with potential problems of the projects and how they can be
overcome, if and when they occur.
(d)  Strengthening of project supervision.  Supervision has absorbed a
substantial part of BPMB's staff resources in the past. To further
increase its efficiency, BPMB plans to focus more on projects with
actual or potential problems. In support of these efforts, BPMB's
future appraisal reports will identify possible potential problems
and suggest a course of action of how to deal with them, if and when
they occur. Moreover, BPMB also plans to improve the analytical
skill level of its staff through additional training and the
recruitment of an engineering advisor under the technical assistance
component of the project (para. 2.64).
(e)  Extension services.  In the past, BPMB was not able to secure
assistance from extension service institutions on a large scale for
those of its projects which had developed problems. Although some
efforts were made, the extension service institutions did not
always have the necessary staff resources nor expertise needed.
Moreover, coordination of such services was also a problem. As
detailed in the chapter on the Technical Assistance Component, the
proposed project is expected to result in a significant expansion of
technical assistance available to SSEs together with a qualitative
improvement including better coordination. Expanded and improved
technical assistance available on an integrated basis is expected to
allow BPMB to expand its portfolio by attending also to those proj-
ects which could not be financed without technical assistance
particularly in the beginning. It should also allow BPMB to deal
with its problem projects, many of which can be rescued with the
right kind of technical assistance. By and large, the integrated
approach will allow BPMB to expand, as well as improve, the quality
of the portfolio.
(f)  Loan collection targets.  In view of BPMB's resource constraints and
high arrears, it plans to tighten credit control and step up loan
collection from 55% in 1983 to 65Z in 1984, 70% in 1985, 75% in 1986
and eventually 80% in 1988. At the same time, BPMB strives to
reduce its arrears and foreclosed accounts from about 10% of total
portfolio to 8% by 1988. As a first step towards an improvement in
its collection performance, BPMB is decentralizing loan collection
and transferring responsibility for this to the branch offices. The
branch offices will be closely monitored and rated according to
their collection performance. Project supervision is also being
intensified with more frequent client visits. Help will also be
available from the technical assistance agencies which will be
strengthened under the project.
2.63      An important element in implementing the action program analyzed
above and -.n achieving the desired results will be the role of the advisors
envisaged under the proposed project. Central to determining the future role



- 27 -
and direction of BPMB and guide it through the transition will be the input of
the Senior Advisor. He will be an experienced development banker having had
management level experience in more mature financial institutions. He will be
reporting to the Chief Executive Officer of BPMB and will be available for
advice and consultation to all senior staff. He will be undertaking a cri-
tical evaluation of BPMB's varied activities in the context of the country's
overall financial system. These varied activities will be reviewed to deter-
mine their potential, demand on financial and staff resources and their costs,
contribution to income, and impact in relation to BPMB's overall objectives.
Such evaluation will form the basis for mapping out BPMB's long-term evolution
and growth. Concurrently, the Senior Advisor will contribute towards improv-
ing the institution's operational efficiency by helping improve the overall
policy framework, methodologies and procedures and staff training and develop-
mnnt.  He will have a term of two years; his terms of reference, already
agreed with BPMB, are contained in the Project File.
2.64      BPMB's engineering expertise is not fully adequate particularly in
view of the increasing emphasis on manufacturing projects (para. 2.49). It
has consequently proposed to hire an Engineering Advisor for a two-year term,
who is expected to provide on-the-job guidance and training to BPMB's
Engineering Department staff. He will also review the appraisal methodologies
related to the engineering aspects of projects, suggest the introduction of
new technologies for BPMB's clients, focus on the evaluation of the
environmental impact of projects and support the staff in all technical
aspects of project supervision. The Engineering Advisor's terms of reference,
agreed with BPMB are contained in the Project File.
2.65      As already stated, BPMB's current information system is also not
fully adequace, since it does not provide the management with consistent and
pertinent information on a timely basis (para. 2.62(a)). The third element of
technical assistance for BPMB, under the proposed project, therefore, relates
to an overhaul of the current system and its adaptation to the requirements of
efficient management. For this task, which may also involve major organ-
izational changes in the accounting department, BPMB has requested to hire a
management information system (MIS) consultant for about six months. The
terms of reference, agreed with BPMB, are contained in the Project File. The
cost of the advisors and the MIS consultant has been included in the total
project cost, details of which are also contained in the Project File.
2.66      BPMB's prospects.  Malaysia has experienced a high investment growth
over the past few years, during which investments climbed from 28Z of CNP
(1979) to 36% (1982). While public investment grew from 10Z to 15Z of GNP,
private investment increased from 18% to 21%. However, excluding investment
in the oil and gas sectors, private investment probably stagnated during the
past two years, if not actually declined. In the future, private investment
will be emphasized as a matter of government policy but it is unlikely that
the actual levels achieved during the second half of the 1970s will be
achieved again in the foreseeable future. Even in light of these expect-
ations, however, it would be very difficult to develop a demand profile for
the target group under the SSEs scheme. The ownership share of Bumiputeras in
the total corporate sector was 12.4% in 1980, less than the 16Z target. The
1990 target is 30%. However, it is not clear how realistic this target is.



- 28 -
It should also be noted that 85Z of BPMB's borrowers are new entrepreneurs.
Hence, BPMB's future operational level should be considered in relation to the
efficiency in project identification and promotion and its capacity to
evaluate and supervise projects and identify new entrepreneurs through its
entrepreneurial development program.
2.67      BPMB's projected operations for 1984-88 are summarized in Annex 8,
Table 1. Its projection is based on the assumption that future commitments
will, on average, continue to grow at the same pace (21%) as in the past
(1979-83). This pace is a composite of fast growing programs, such as SSE and
EDP and activities which are projected to be slower, such as equity invest-
ments and share financing. BPMB expects to approve about 400 subloans in 1984
(364 in 1983) including small subloans which will be covered by the proposed
SSE project in the future. Between 1985-88, BPMB's total loan operations
(shown in the following table) are expected to grow at an average annual rate
of 17% including the proposed SSE project.
PROJECTED YEARLY LOAN OPERATIONS, 1985-88
1985      1986       1987        1988
Large loans                     108        135       160          200
Entrepreneur development
program loans                 100        115       130          130
SSE loans                       242        303       364          426
TotaL Loans                450        553       654          756
However, the increase in operations will be gradual, given the lead time in
launching the proposed SSE program, which requires BPMB to recruit new staff
and achieve some efficiency improvement. Total subloan approvals are expected
to increase by 50 projects in 1985 and by about 100 yearly from 1986 onwards,
well within BPMB's scope of efficiency increase. During 1985-87, BPMB expects
to approve about 900 subloans under the proposed SSE projects, not all of
which are incremental.
2.68      Resource Requirements and Funding.  BPMB's resource planning was
previously based on cash requirements rather than commitments (para. 2.61).
As a consequence, BPMB had, at the start of 1984, undisbursed commitments of
some M$103 million, of which only M$56 million were covered by available
resources. This left a resource gap of some M$47 million. Including this gap,
BPMB requires the following funds for its 1984-88 operations whi 0  will not
totally eLiminate this gap, but reduce it to a manageable level.-
9/   Despite this gap on a commitment basis, BPMB is not expected to face any
disbursement constraints (see Annex 8, Zable 4).



- 29 -
PROJECTED YEARLY COMMITMENTS AND SOURCES OF FUNDS, 1984-88
(M$ million)
1984      1985     1986      1987       1988
Total commitments                  207/a      192      232       272       322
Total resources                    144        213      254       276       308
Of which:
Government borrowings             49         80       95       100       105
Private borrowings (net)          60         60       60        50        40
World Bank borrowings              -         20       25        30        35
Other (collections, inter-
nally generated funds)          35         53       74        96       120
Surplus/(Deficit) for the year  (63)        (42)     (20)      (16)      (30)
/a Including M$47 million commitment gap as of January 1, 1984.
En addition to budget allocations from the Government, BPMB expects to raise
private funds from the capital market in the proportion of roughly 56:4. The
funds from the World Bank under the project will be in addition. For the
projected borrowings in 1984, budgetary provision for M$49 million has already
been made, and BPMB has been offered a loan of M$20 million by the Armed
Forces Fund. Borrowings from other sources are also being explored. However,
BPMB does not yet have a track record of market borrowings, and it would at
least initially require a government guarantee to successfully tap the capital
market. The Government has agreed to provide such a guarantee when necessary,
for BPMB's medium- and long-term borrowings. In addition, during negot-
iations, understandings were reached with the Government on BPMB's resource
plans for 1984-88, and that the Government would provide BPMB such resources
at a cost which would enable it to achieve a reasonable overall spread
(presently considered to be 52).
2.69      Projected financial position and performance.  Projected income
statements, balance sheets, cash-flow statements and selected financial ratios
for 1984-88 are shown in Annex 8, Tables 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively. Interest
income from BPMB's loan portfolio will continue to account for the major share
(about 75%) of BPMB's gross income. Net profits are likely to grow by about
13% in absolute terms, increasing from M$9.0 million in 1983 to M$21.8 million
in 1988, but will decline irregularly when related to total average assets
from 2.1% in 1983 to eventually 1.6% in 1987 before they recover again.
BPMB's rising resource cost is the main contributing factor to this
dis;_rsement constraints (see Annex 8, Table 4).



- 30 -
development. Return on average net worth is also expected to decline from an
actual 15.0% in 1983 to 13.9% in 1988, which is still considered satisfactory
in view of BPMB's developmental objectives. BPMB also intends to reduce its
currently high administrative costs of 2.8% to eventually 1.6Z of assets in
1988, which is an ambitious target. BPMB plans to maintain provisions for
doubtful accounts at about 2% of total loan portfolio, in line with its
informal policy decision. As stated in para. 2.60, the independent auditors
will be required by the Bank to make a judgment about the adequacy of the
provisions and to include the judgment in their report.
2.70      The pace of growth of BPMB's assets is expected to slow down from
43Z p.a. (1979-83) to about 24% p.a. during 1984-88. BPMB's term portfolio is
projected to account for a larger share of about 73% of total assets as com-
pared with about 65% in 1983, while investments will decline from 9Z (1983) to
about 6%. As in the past, BPMB's asset growth will largely be financed by
term debts (82%) and to a lesser extent equity (13%). Due to its resource
diversification plans, debts from non-government sources are expected to
account for 35% of the total. While profits will be fully retained, this is
not sufficient to carry BPMB through until 1988 since it will reach its
debt/equity policy limit as early as at the end of 1984. BPMB has already
approached the Government for an increase in its equity. During negotiations,
the Government agreed to provide necessary financial resources to BPMB to
ensure that its debt/equity ratio does not exceed the maximum 5:1 provided in
its Policy Statement.
The Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad (MIDF)
2.71      Nature and role.  MIDF was established in 1960 as the country's
first development bank to promote the growth of Malaysia's then nascent manu-
facturing sector. In conjunction with a capital increase (from M$10 million
to M$25 million), MIDF was restructured in 1963 and the majority of its
shares, initially held by foreign investors, were transferred into Malaysian
hands with the Government together with the central bank accounting for 20% of
the total shareholding. This capital increase (including an investment by
IFC), an interest-free government loan (M$37.5 million) and a World Bank loan
(US$8.0 million in 1963) provided MIDF with the necessary resources for a
faster growth performance. MIDF has committed, since its inception, some
2,700 loans amounting to M$1.20 billion for all major subsectors in manufac-
turing which resulted in a fixed capital formation of almost M$4 billion and
the creation of some 130,000 new jobs. In 1964, MIDF established the Indus-
trial Estate Sendrian Bhd. (MIEL), a wholly-owned subsidiary company, for the
construction, sale and lease of modern factory buildings, and, in 1971, estab-
lished the MIDF Consultancy and Corporate Services Sendrian Bhd. (MIDFCCS), to
provide management consultancy ser-zices. In L971, MIDF also pioneered
merchant banking in the country by establishing the Malaysian International
Merchant Bankers Bhd., followed by the formation of the Arab-Malaysian
Development Bank in 1975, the shares in which were sold in 1983. Considerable
emphasis was put upon the development of Bumiputera enterprises when the NEP
was enunciated in 1971 and, in 1978, MIDF established a special Bumiputera
Development Department (BDD).



- 31 -
2.72      About M$79.7 million of MIDF's authorized share capital of M$150
million has been issued and paid up, of which 72% and 28% is held by Malaysian
and foreign in.estors respectively. Financial institutions account for 87.6Z
of MIDF's share capital and industrial firms (6.8%) and insurance companies
(4.7%) for the remainder. Permodalan National Bhd. (32.6Z), Malayan Banking
Bhd. (15.0%) and Bank Negara Malaysia (7.6%) are MIDF's three largest share-
holders. The Government holds indirectly 42.2% of MIDF's share capital.
2.73      MIDF is a conservative institution financing small, medium and large
projects in the private sector. It has decided as a matter of policy to
finance projects in the manufacturing sector only. The emphasis is not on
rapid growth and increasing market share but on financial health and
maintaining its character as a sound development bank, financing good projects
in the manufacturing sector. The result is a relatively small institution in
the financial system but with a sound portfolio and a reputation in the
country for professionalism and competence.
2.74      Board of directors, management and staff.  MIDF's Board of Directors
comprises 13 members including one representative of the Government and
convenes once every three months. MIDF has a high ranking and powerful Board;
the Chairman is a former Governor of Bank Negara, and includes the present
central bank Governor and the economic advisor to the Prime Minister. Regular
loan decisions beyond the approval authority of MIDF's General Manager (above
M$l million) are delegated to an Executive Committee, comprising the Chairman
and five Directors.
2.75      MIDF's staff is well qualified, experienced and efficient,
comprising 192 persons including 84 professionals of various backgrounds
(Annex 19). It is ably led by the General Manager. The BDD would require
strengthening to accommodate the expanded operations resulting from its
participation in the proposed SSE project; it is expected to result in an
increase in BDD project approvals from currently about 35 to about 90.
Project promotion, development and implementation support, all provided by
BDD, are critical ingredients for the success of the SSE project. MIDF
consequently plans to increase the staff of the BDD from currently 9 to 15
professionals by transferring experienced staff from other departments to
BDD. In view of this transfer, MIDF is not expected to face any difficulties
in accommodating the proposed SSE project. Under the project, MIDF would
obtain assistance in training of its staff and for short-term experts to
conduct selected subsector studies. These costs are included in project
financing requirements. Details of the cost of MIDF's subcomponent are
contained in the Project File.
2.76      During the past few years, MIDF has been faced with a high turnover
of professional staff. In FY82, 12 professionals left to join other institu-
tions and 18 left in FY83. The reason is the high demand for MIDF trained
staff in the market. The relatively high staff turnover is likely to continue
and there is not much MIDF can do to curtail the turnover given its already
good salary structure. However, this has not been a serious problem for MIDF,
since it has a core staff of experienced and able professionals and has no
difficulty in attracting talented new graduates.



- 32 -
2.77      Organization.  MIDF's organization structure is shown in Chart
III. In FY83, MIDF was reorganized after a study by an IFC consultant.
Homogenous functions were combined to eliminate duplication and overlaps and
increase staff efficiency. As a result of this exercise, the number of
divisions was reduced and some activities, such as share registration and
underwriting, were transferred to MIDF's subsidiary company (MIDF Consultancy
and Corporate Services Sendrian Bhd.). MIDF also transferred financing of
factory buildings to MIEL. Furthermore, a new subsidiary company, the MIDF
Investment Holdings Sdn. Bhd., was established to take over and manage MIDF's
equity portfolio with some exceptions (e.g., subsidiary companies and equity
investments made in conjunction with loan financing). MIDF is now organized
into four departments: Projects; Administration; Supervision; and Bumiputera
Development and three divisions: Branches; Finance; and Business
Development. It has seven regional branch offices. Loan operations are
essentially handled by two sections: the Projects Department whose principal
function is the appraisal of projects; and the Supervision Department which is
responsible for all post approval activities. These two operational sections
are well staffed and ably managed. The BDD focusses on project promotion,
development and implementation but does not undertake project appraisal and
supervision. Once new proposals have been developed to the stage where they
are ready for appraisal, they are transferred to the Projects Department.
2.78      Operating policies.  MIDF's Policy Statement is attached as
Annex 9. MIDF limits its financing to projects in the manufacturing sector.
All project proposals are subjected to a thorough evaluation to determine
their feasibility and viability. In addition, MIDF requires full collateral-
ization of its loans. MIDF tailors the various kinds of its assistance, such
as loan financing, equity financing and leasing, to the needs of each proj-
ect. If projects call for equity financing, MIDF refrains from seeking a
controlling interest and limits its exposure to 25% of the client company's
common stock and 1O% of its own networth except for rescue arrangements, where
these policy limitations may be waived. MIDF endeavors to revolve its equity
portfolio but also pays due regard to the interest of the clients and capital
market considerations. MIDF's financial policy guidelines require that its
total equity portfolio does not exceed its own net worth; they also limit its
financing to 70% of the fixed assets cost of a project and does not normally
allow long-term debt/equity and total debt/equity ratios to exceed 2:1 and 3:1
respectively.
2.79      Project evaluation and supervision.  The quality of MIDF's project
evaluation is a reflection of its long-standing experience in project financ-
ing and its procedures which have evolved over a 20-year period. The
appraisal reports are well documented, the issues clearly identified, the
technical aspects appropriately covered and the analysis thorough with the
assumptions clearly stated. However, IRRs are calculated for large projects
only, and MIDF does not undertake ERR analysis. Instead, it includes in the
reports the usual partial economic indicators, such as export earnings/
savings, total investment, incremental labor and cost of jobs created, etc.
Supervision is undertaken by a separate department at headquarters level and
by its 7 regional branch offices which focus more on routine follow-up
activities. For supervision, MIDF classifies its portfolio on a scale from 1



- 33 -
to 7 on the basis of the borrowers' performance. This system allows MIDF to
concentrate on those projects which require intensive supervision. Problem-
free projects are only visited once every year. All supervision reports are
routinely made available to MIDF's managers for further actions to be decided
in management meetings, if necessary. Overall, HIDF appraisal and supervision
work is thorough and satisfactory.
2.80      MIDF's operations.  MIDF provides project lending for the purchase
of land, buildings and machinery and other lending facilities including leas-
ing for the acquisition of machinery. In addition to this, Bumiputera proj-
ects are also eligible for working capital financing, equity financing in con-
junction with loan financing and factory mortgage financing (purchase of
factory buildings without machinery). Since leasing has only been introduced
in FY85, term lending constitutes MIDF's main activity. Due to the slack
investment climate, MIDF commitments have declined during FY82-83 in terms of
both amount and number of loans after a good growth (35%) in FY81. In FY84,
MIDF's new commitments net of cancellAtions amounted to M$75 million, about
the same as in FY83. Details of MIDF's operations are given in Annex 10,
Table 1.
2.81      Characteristics of loan operations.  Details of the characteristics
of MIDF's operations are given in Annex 10, Table 2. About 23% of MIDF's
financial assistance has gone to the food industry, followed by the metal and
engineering sector (19%), wood and wood processing industry (102) and rubber
industry (8%). Loans of less than M$1 million accounted for almost 84Z of the
number of loans in MIDF's portfolio, but absorbed only 12% of MIDF's total
assistance by amount. New projects accounted for 31X of all loans. Geogra-
phic distribution is skewed in favor of Selangor/Federal Territory of Kuala
Lumpur which absorbed about 36% and 30% of the total loans by amount and
number respectively.
2.82      Cummulatively, MIDF has approved M$1.4 billion for about 2,600 proj-
ects, resulting in an estimated total capital formation of M$3.9 billion. The
project sponsors' equity contribution to total project cost accounted for
about 42%. Total investment is estimated to have resulted in the creation of
130,000 new jobs, at an average cost of about M$30,200 (US$13,200) for each
new job. Cummulative foreign exchange earnings/savings amounted to an estima-
ted M$l.9 billion.
2.83      Financial structure and performance.  MIDF's balance sheets for FY80
through YV4 (9 months) are summarized in Annex 11, Tabie 1. During
FY80-84,-   MIDF's assets have grown at an average annual rate of about lX
and amounted to M$513 million (US$228 million) as of De,.ember 31, 1983.
MIDF's long-term loan portfolio accounted for about 89.4% of total assets.
These were financed by current liabilities (6.2%), term debt (54.5%) and
equity (39.3%). MIDF has strengthened its equity base by pursuing a modest
dividend policy and the retention of profits, including capital gains on sale
of investments. As of December 31, 1983, MIDF's consolidated long-term debt
10/ Data for FY84 only available up to December 31, 1983.



- 34 -
equity and total debt/equity ratios stood at 1.4 and 1.6 times respectively.
MIDF's past liquidity situation was tight as reflected by below unity current
and debt service cover ratios as of December 31, 1983.  The projected liqui-
dity position, particularly in 1985 was also not satisfactory.  This aspect
was discussed during negotiations.  It was explained that major loans falling
due in 1985 had been rolled over since the appraisal time and the amounts
shown in Annex 14, Table 13 would now not fall due in 1985. This alone would
significantly improve the liquidity ratios. It was also explained that MIDF
had an unused M$20 million commercial bank c-esit facility and could also
issue 1-2 years notes for another M$20 milli.a at short notice. MIDF added
that the low ratio was the result of a deliberate policy of cash management
which minimized cash surplus, but was not a cause of concern because of unused
credit facility and an assurance that the medium-term loans would be rolled
over again if and when it becomes necessary to do so.
2.84      Earning performance.  MIDF's income statements and selected finan-
cial performance indicators are summarized in Annex 11, Tables 2 and 3 res-
pectively.  Interest on loans outstanding accounted f?y about 85% of MIDF's
gros: income in FY84 (9 months) as compared with 81M in FY83. In the past,
MIDF derived a sizeable portion of its income from the disposal of invest-
ments. It accounted for 54X of total income in FY83 as compared with 39% in
FY82 and 42% in FY81. Income from sale of investments in the future is not
expected to match the recent performance. Resource cost and administrative
expenses accounted for 6.6% and 2.32 of total expenditure as compared with
5.8Z and 2.5% in FY83. During FY80-84, MIDF had an average lending spread of
about 3.9% of total assets, to cover average administrative expenses (2.1%)
and provisions for doubtful accounts (0.7%). Due to its substantial depen-
dence on funds to be raised at market rates, MIDF expects its overall resource
cost to go up from currently 8.7% to 9.3% in FY85. MIDF's past earning
performance has been very satisfactory due largely to its substantial earnings
from the sale of investments. Net income as percentage of total assets and
net worth averaged about 4.6Z and 12.4% respectively during FY80-84. MIDF was
able to retain a substantial part of its profits by virtue of a modest divi-
dend policy. For FY83, MIDF declared a dividend of 10%.
2.85      Quality of portfolio.  MIDF's portfolio status and age structure of
arrears are summarized in Annex 12, Tables 1-2. As of December 31, 1983,
MIDF's arrears of principal (M$11.2 million) and interest (M$5.2 million)
amounted to M$16.4 million, or 3.7% of its outstanding portfolio and about 20%
of its total portfolio was affected by arrears. MIDF has been able to
gradually improve its arrears position from a fairly high 8.3% of total
portfolio in FY81 to the current relatively low 3.7%. This has been achieved
in spite of only marginal reschedulings (0.6% of portfolio) and write-offs.
Moreover, MIDF has always maintained provisions for doubtful accounts at a
satisfactory level. The coLlection ratio in the last two years was 82%. How-
ever, MIDF has a relatively large number of arrears cases. As of December 31,
1983, 298 of MIDF's 868 borrowers, or about 34%, were in arrears. MIDF is
fully aware of this problem. Although more than 50% of them are in the rela-
IlV Excluding income from the sale of investments.



- 35 -
tively short category of between 3-6 months, MIDF plans to strengthen its
collection procedures and efforts in FY84. During negotiations, MIDF
explained the steps it has taken since the appraisal time to improve its
arrears position. These included changes in billing procedures, more frequent
billings, dealing directly with the commercial bankers of the clients, partic-
ularly smaller clients, helping clients improve their liquidity position by
obtaining additional working capital facilities and, in justified cases, to
agree to formal reschedulings instead of ad hoc informal arrangements. The
underlying reason for the high number of arrears cases is seen in the slowdown
of the growth performance of the economy which has caused cash flow problems
for many of MIDF's borrowers; this is considered a temporary phenomenon.
2.86      Resource position.  MIDF's resource position is shown in Annex 27.
For the last severaL years, MIDF has done its resource planning on s cash flow
basis as matter of policy; as a result, it has a resource gap on a commitment
basis. Undisbursed commitments and approvals currently amount to about
M$133 million. This has not been a problem in the past because MIDF has
always been able to obtain new resources from government financial institu-
tions or private capital market. To cover expected disbursements and debt
repayments, MIDF intends to raise M$559 million of short to medium maturity
funds during FY85-89 (para. 2.88). The Government and Bank Negara together
account for about 41Z of MIDF's outstanding resoruces, (Annex 13), while funds
raised from the Employees Provident Fund and Agricultural Bank and from issu-
ing notes to banks and insurance companies account for another 57Z. The fact
that MIDF cannot accept deposits has been a constraint on its ability to
mobilize resources and, therefore, to expand its operations.
MIDFts Prospects
2.87      Projected operations.  MIDF's projected operations for FY85-89 are
summarized in Annex 14, Table 1. MIDF expects its future commitments (includ-
ing the proposed SSE project) to grow at an average annual rate of about 18Z
during FY85-89 as compared with about llZ during the preceding four-year
period. The SSE program is projected to absorb M$60 million during a three-
year period for some 275 projects. MIDF's assistance to the target group
enterprises is likely to double from currently 45-50 to about 95-100 projects
a year. This increase is a realistic target which MIDF should be able to
achieve, given the quality of its staff and in view of the planned expansion
of its BDD.
2.88      Resource requirements and funding.  Since MIDF's resource planning
has been based on its cash requirements, it has currently undisbursed commit-
ments and approvals of some M$133 million. Including these commitments, MIDF
requires the following funds for its FY85-89 operations.



- 36 -
Table 2: PROJECTED COMMITMENTS, DISBURSEMENTS AND SOURCES OF FUNDS, FY85-89
(M$ million)
FY85     FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89    Total
Projected commitments           283/a    190       215      235       245    1,168
Projected net
disbursements
(Disbursements less
collections)                   3       49        36       47       37       172
Gross borrowings                 40       152      108      125       134      559
less:  debt repayment          62      112        93       93       102      462
Net borrowings                  (22)      40        15       32        32  9 97
Projected cash position           5        7         4        1         5
/a   Including M$133 million of undisbursed commitments and approvals as
of December 31, 1983.
About one third of MIDF's total gross borrowings of M$559 million during the
projection period (FY85-89) will be short- to medium-term funds with maturi-
ties of up to two years. A large portion -' total borrowings (M$462 million)
will be used to repay existing and future maturing debts and MIDF's net bor-
rowings are expected to be about M$97 million for this period. Given its
relatively large equity base, MIDF will be able to match fairly closely the
maturities of its assets (principally loans) with those of its borrowings and
is not expected to face any serious problem by borrowing short maturities.
2.89      Projected financial position and performance.  Projected income
statements, balance sheets, cash flow statements and selected financial ratios
for FY85-e9 are shown in Annex 14, Tables 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively.
Interest income from MIDF's loan portfolio is expected to account for about
93% of MIDF's gross income. According to its forecast, MIDF's average lending
spread will gradually increase from 5.1% (FY84) to 5.8% (FY89) of total
assets, while administrative expenses will decrease from currently 1.9Z to
1.8% on avey e.  Despite this improvement, the decline in income from equity
operations,_  which were highly profitable in the past, will result in a
decline in the rate of return on assets and net worth from 4.6% and 12.4%
during FY8O-84 to 2.4% and 6.3% during FY85-89.  The relatively modest return
on net worth is also a reflection of MIDF's unusually low gearing, with a
12/ MIDF's equity operations were transferred in FY84 to one of its
subsidiary companies.



- 37 -
total debt/equity ratio not exceeding 1.8:1 during the entire projection
period. In view of the extremely low current and projected debt/equity ratio,
it is not considered necessary to stipulate a maximum limit on this ratio for
MIDF.
2.90      Although MIDF expects loan approvals to grow at a faster pace than
in the past, this will only have a marginal impact on the growth of its asset
base, which is projected to increase at an average annual rate of 6Z from
currently M$520 million to M$690 million (by March 31, 1989). This is far
below the past average growth rate of 11. It is based on the assumption of
shorter overall loan maturities in view of MIDF's difficulties in raising
long-term resources. Some 58% of MIDF's loan portfolio, accounting for about
84% of total assets (about 78% during FY80-84), is expected to have maturities
of less than 3 years. To finance the longer portion of its portfolio, MIDF
will continue tw use its own relatively large capital funds.
III. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Project Cost and Financing
3.01      Total project cost is estimated at US$104.1 million of which the
foreign exchange component would be US$25.7 million or 25Z of the total,
including the Bank's front-end fee. A summary of the project cost is given in
the following table:



- 38 -
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total           Foreign
-      MS million             -     USS million---    as Z of total
Credit Component
BPMB subloans              120.0     30.0      150.0      53.4      13.3     66.7          20
MIDF subLoans               48.0     12.0       60.0      21.3       5.3     26.6          20
Subtotal                168.0      42.0      210.0      74.7     18.6      93.3          20
Technical Assistance
Component
BPMB                         0.5      2.5        3.0       0.2       1.1      1.3          83
FRI                          1.7      2.5        4.2       0.8       1.1      1.9          57
FTD                          3.3      3.3        6.6       1.5       1.5      3.0          50
MEDEC                        0.1       1.4       1.5        -        0.6      0.6          93
MIDF                          -       0.6        0.6        -       0.3       0.3         100
NPC                          0.1      1.1        1.2        -       0.5       0.5          92
SED                           -       1.0        1.0        -       0.5       0.5         100
SIRIM                        1.6      1.6        3.2       0.7       0.7      1.4          50
Subtotal/a               7.3      14.0       21.3       3.2      6.3       9.5          66
Concingencies
Physical                     0.7      0.8        1.5       0.3      0.4       0.7          40
Price                        0.4      0.7        1.1       0.2      0.3       0.5          50
SubtotaL                  1.1       1.5        2.6       0.5      0.7       1.2          56
Total Project Cost         176.4     57.5      233.9      78.4     25.6    104.0           25
Front-end Fee on Bank
Loan                          -       0.3        0.3        -       0.1       0.1         100
Total Financing
Requirement                176.6     57.8      234.4      78.4     25.7    104.1           25
/a   Including taxes -which would be applicable to equipment only and are estimated to be
US$330 ,OOU.
3.02      The credit component cost of the project represents the projected
volume of subloans to be made by BPMB and MIDF during 1985-87, whose foreign
exchange requirements will be relatively small (about 20Z), in view of their
size and nature. As for the TA component, project funds would be spent for
building conscruction, laboratory and workshop equipment, some vehicles for
crainers and trainees, 19 man-years of advisors/experts (mostly expatriate)
and overseas training and fellowships. The TA component cost is estimated to
have a foreign exchange element of 66Z. The cost estimates were prepared in
January 1984 on the basis of the actual requirements of the participating



- 39 -
agencies and reviewed again in the field in April 1984. Civil works cost
estimates are based on detailed construction drawings and blue prints.
Equipment costs are based on quotations obtained from suppliers. The cost
estimates for advisors/experts are based on the Bank's experience in similar
projects and do not include contingency allowances. Physical contingencies of
10% for buildings and equipment have been included to provide for possible
adjustment in quantities during project implementation and a price contingency
as well on these and the training component based on the expected inflation
rate of 5Z for domestic currency costs and 82 (1985) and 9% (1986) for foreign
currency costs. The credit component (subloans to be made by BPMB and HIDF)
does not need any contingency provision. The equipment cost includes
applicable duties and taxes.
3.03      Of the total project cost (US$104.1 million), the estimated foreign
exchange component will be about 25%. In view of its extremely tight fiscal
position, resulting in the cancellation of most new projects requiring budget-
ary support, and given the nature of beneficiaries and high priority accorded
to this project, the Government requested the Bank to finance 50% of the total
project cost, and the Bank has agreed to do so. The total project cost will
therefore be funded as follows:
Local     Foreign   Total            I
(US$ million)
Credit Component
BPMB (from the Government)        33.4         -       33.4           36
MIDF (own resources)              13.3         -       13.3           14
Bank                              28.0       18.6      46.6           50
74.7      18.6      93.3          100
TA Component
Government                         3.7        1.6       5.3           50
Bank                                -         5.4       5.4           50
3.1       7.0       10.7         100
IBRD Front-end Fee                    -         0.1       0.1            -
Total Project Cost
Government                         3.7        1.6       5.3           37
MIDF (own resources)              13.3         -       13.3           13
BPMB (from the Government)        33.4         -       33.4
Bank                              28.0       24.1      52.1           50
78.4      25.7     104.1          100



- 40 -
Features of the Proposed Loan
3.04      Blending of funds and relending terms.  The Bank loan of
US$52.1 million would be made to Malaysia. Except for BPMB and MIDF, the
other participating agencies are parts of various government ministries, and
both the Bank funds and the balance of the funding required would be made
available to them through the normal budgetary system. The funds would,
therefore, be cost free to the TA agencies and no repayment from them to the
Government will be involved. During negotiations, an agreement was reached
that the Government would provide the required funds to the TA agencies
through budgetary allocations; such provision has already been made in the
budget for 1985. As for BPMB and MIDF, the funds under the credit component
(US$33.4 milLion for BPMB and US$13.3 million for MIDF) would be onlent to
them at the fixed rate of 7.3% p.a. which is equivalent to the actual average
cost of recent government borrowings, and under the TA component (US$0.65 mil-
lion and US$0.15 million for BPMB and MIDF respectively) at 0% interest. The
Government will bear the risk of the Bank's variable rate on the total loan
amount; it has also agreed to bear the foreign exchange risk. The relending
terms to BPMB and MIDF will be set out in two separate subsidiary loan agree-
ments satisfactory to the Bank, the signing of which will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
3.05      In the case of BPMB, the Bank funds to be made available to it at
7.3% would be blended with additional funds, not only to meet the requirements
of the proposed SSE project, but also its regular operations (para. 2.68). An
understanding has been reached with the Government that such funds would be
made available to BPMB at the rate of 2% p.a. (In the past, government loans
to BPMB carried interest at 0X-2%.) As far as MIDF is concerned, the Bank
funds to be made available to it at 7.3% would be blended with its other
resources, giving an estimated average cost of about 9.0%.
3.06      As far as the cost of funds to the BPMB final beneficiaries is con-
cerned, it has been agreed with the Government and BPMB that interest rates
would range between a minimum of 9% for loans of up to M$100,000 to more than
11% for loans of more than M$500,000. MIDF, on the other hand, will be
charging interest at a rate 2% above its cost of blended funds, i.e., at 11.0%
as a minimum. On the basis of their expected average lending rates and
resource cost, BPMB and MIDF will have spreads under the project of 5.5% and
at least 2% respectively. BPMB's spread is fully satisfactory, while MIDF's
spread is somewhat narrow. It is, nevertheless, expected fully to cover its
cost including provisions, since it lends to more up-scale borrowers and its
costs and risks would be Lower. On their total operations, BPMB and MIDF both
would get overall spreads of about 5%. The rates to the final beneficiaries
would be substantially positive given the Bank estimated inflation rate of
about 5% p.a. for the foreseeable future. However, to safeguard against
unforeseen future developments, an agreement was reached during negotiations
with the Government, BPMB and MIDF that interest rates will be mutually
reviewed on an annual basis in light of the cost of funds for BPMB and MIDF,
their profitability and interest and inflation rates in Malaysia.



- 41 -
3.07      The free limit will be M$400,000 (about US$178,000) which should
result in subprojects being submitted to the Bank for prior approval account-
ing for about 452 of the total loan amount and 15X of total number of sub-
loans. The number of projects requiring prior Bank approval is intended to be
relatively high because the Bank lacks experience with BPMB and MIDF. The
maximum size of a single subloan will be limited to M$750,000 (about
US$333,000). Agreements on the free limit and maximum size of a subloan were
reached with BPMB and MIDF during negotiations.
3.08      The Bank loan to the Government would be on a fixed amortization
basis on country terms, i.e., 15 years with 3 years grace. The subloans to be
made by BPMB and MIDF will be for considerably shorter maturities (of about 5
years on average), creating second generation revolving funds. An understand-
ing has been reached with the Government that such revolving funds would be
left with BPMB and MIDF to be used by them for making new SSE loans. This
will be incorporated in the subsidiary loan agreements between the Government
and BPMB and MIDF, satisfactory to the Bank, and the signing of which will be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.09      Procurement.  International competitive bidding for the credit com-
ponent, which will cover small private sector subloans, is not appropriate.
BPMB and MIDF, however, will be responsible for ensuring proper procurement
under subloans to be made by them. Their procurement policies and procedures
were reviewed during appraisal and found to provide adequate competition.
Procurement of both equipment and civil works is based on at least three
offers from suppliers or their agents. Most of these projects are fairly
simple and MIDF and BPMB staff are familiar with the equipment and when they
feel necessary, they themselves check on competitive offers. When an unfamil-
iar project comes up, they seek help, if necessary, from large development
banks in other countries. A review by the appraisal mission of some large
projects indicated that the specifications were adequately described, a number
of suppliers were contacted and offers received and the selection was dili-
gently undertaken and properly documented. For equipment (computers) to be
purchased by BPMB for its own use, it will be required to obtain at least
three competitive quotations before the contract is finalized.
3.10      The responsibility for procurement under the TA componen: will rest
with each participating TA agency. Since these are all part of various minis-
tries, and since items to be procured are many and small in volume and cannot
be grouped in sufficiently large quantities to attract international bidders,
they will be subject to standard procurement regulations and practices
prescribed by the Government and administered by the Contract and Supplies
Management Division in the Treasury. International competitive bidding is not
appropriate, given the very small average contract size. The appraisal mis-
sion briefly reviewed these and found them to be thorough. For civil works,
there are various categories of prequalified contractors, depending on the
value of the contracts involved. For contracts of M$50,000 and above, public
tenders must be invited and there are prescribed requirements on how these
tenders are to be advertised. For civil works of less than M$50,000, at least
five quotations are required. For equipment (including vehicles) most
procurement is done on a centralized basis and usually through public tender-
ing. All procurement by government agencies participating in the project



- 42 -
will, therefore, be done in accordance with standard government policies and
procedures which provide for adequate competition and are satisfactory to the
Bank. The recruitment of advisors/experts under the project will be done in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency. Terms of reference have
already been agreed (except for short-term consultants to be hired by MIDF)
and the agencies have started the search. All advisors/consultants to
Government participating agencies and BPMB will be hired latest by June 30,
1985 except the MIS specialist for BPMB who could be hired latest by December
31, 1985. The subsector specialists to be hired by MIDF will be short term
(two months each) and will be hired one at a time; the last of the six experts
will be hired by the end of December 1986. Selection of the advisors/
consultants will be subject to approval by the Bank.
3.11      Disbursement.  For the credit component, the Bank would disburse 50%
of the total amount disbursed by BPMB and MIDF for project subloans. Dis-
bursement would be made against full documentation for BPMB's and MIDF's sub-
loans above the free limit of M$400,000 (about US$178,000). For subloans
below the free limit, Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be used. For
projects disbursed under SOE procedure, full supporting documentation will be
retained by the two institutions and made available for Bank inspection during
supervision missions. Revolving funds in the amount of US$2.6 million and
US$1.2 million for BPMB and MIDF respectively will be established in the form
of Special Accounts with their banks from which they would obtain reimburse-
ment for all subloans. The SOEs, as well as the Special Accounts, will be
subject to audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank. Establishment of the
Special Accounts by BPMB and MIDF will be conditions of disbursement of their
respective component of the proposed loan.
3.12      For the TA component, the Bank would disburse 50% of the cost
incurred by the agencies for training, recruitment of experts, equipment and
civil works on the basis of SOEs and the Treasury will serve as disbursement
agent for all participating TA agencies. Regular Government audit procedures
would apply and the underlying documents would be retained by the Treasury for
examination by the Bank staff.
3.13      The standard Industrial Development Finance disbursement profile has
been used to prepare the estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 15), with
appropriate modifications to incorporate the estimated disbursements of the TA
component. The Closing Date will be June 30, 1990. The last date for receipt
of subprojects from BPMB and MIDF will be December 31, 1987.
3.14      Accounts and Audits.  BPMB's and MIDF's accounts are audited by
independent auditors who are satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. Durirng
appraisal, Bank's requirements for the long-form audit reports were explained
to the auditors as well as to BPMB and MIDF. The Government agencies partici-
pating in the TA component of the project will be subject to standard Govern-
ment audit. The audited project accounts of these agencies as well as the
audited accounts of BPMB and MIDF will be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of their respective fiscal years.



- 43 -
Project Benefits and Risks
3.15      Benefits.  The project is expected to play a major role in strength-
ening programs to support SSEs which presently do not have adequate access to
institutional credit and quality technical assistance.   First, the proposed
project will significantly increase the quantum of technical assistance
available to the 3SEs and, at the same time, its quality should also improve
appreciably. These twin benefits will come about by substantially expanding,
rationalizing and improving the technical assistance programs, by strengthen-
ing the institutions providing them and by better coordination. For the first
time, an overall assessment of the major TA programs and agencies has been
undertaken and attempt made to identify voids and duplications in programs and
strengths/weaknesses of the agencies concerned. The project is based on such
an assessment.
3.16      Second, the availability of institutional credit to the target group
will increase substantially and be integrated with improved TA programs. It
is expected that a total amount of M$210 million will be lent over a period of
up to three years through two financial institutions, BPMB and MIDF. Total
number of borrowers benefiting from the project is estimated at 1,100-1,200.
It is estimated that over the life of the project, at least 10,000 jobs at an
average cost of M$15,000-M$20,000 per job would be created under the BPMB
component and 2,100 jobs at an average cost of M$26,000 per job would be
created under the MIDF component. A related benefit would be the significant
strengthening of BPMB which was created solely for the purpose of providing
development finance to the target group.
3.17      Third, for the first time TA programs and their impact will be
systematically monitored and evaluated. As detailed in para. 2.08, an
expatriate advisor will be hired for a period of two years to design, install
and operate such a system.  This should have major longer-term benefits in
that future program modifications and institutional reforms would be based on
scientific studies as opposed to the past ad hoc measures.
3.18      Finally, a not insignificant benefit of the project has been the
initiation of a broad dialogue between the Bank and the Government about
future lending for industrial development finance. In the context of the
preparation of this project, the Bank has also started a discussion of sector
policies, and a longer-term operational relationship in the industrial sector
now looks likely.
3.19      Risks. Given the uncertainties in the economic environment, the
loan could take longer to disburse than presently estimated. This risk will
be minimized, however, by the considerable strengthening of the participating
credit and technical assistance agencies which is expected to contribute to
more intensive and efficient promotion.
3.20      The other project risk is that if overall coordination among the
many TA and credit agencies is not effective, the impact of the project could
be diluted. Much would depend on the weight the CCDSE and SED would carry in
the future. Provision has been made in the project for strengthening



- 44 -
coordination and for periodic consultation between the Government and the Bank
on this subject.
3.21      A risk particular to BPMB is that it could have difficulties raising
the resources it would need to arrive the projected volume of its regular
operations. However, the Government has agreed to provide BPMB with adequate
resources and to support with adequate resources and to support its private
borrowings which should assist it in diversifying its resource base.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
4.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with:
(a)  the Government on:
(i) a coordination mechanism among the TA agencies and par-
ticipating financial intermediaries and annual review on
progress of such coordination (para. 2.41);
(ii)  provision of guarantee for BPMB's medium- and long-term
borrowings from the capital market (para. 2.68);
(iii) provision of necessary financial support to BPMB so that its
maximum debt/equity ratio limit is not violated (paras. 2.56
and 2.70); and
(iv) provision of budgetary allocation to meet TA component funding
requirements (para. 3.04).
(b) the Government, BPMB and MIDF:
ij  the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreements
between the Government and BPMB and MIDF (para. 3.04);
(ii)  on mutual review of interest rates on an annual basis (para.
3.06);
(iii) on the interest rate on subloans to final beneficiaries
(para. 3.06);
(iv) on Bank approval of advisors/consultants and the timing of the
recruitment (para. 3.10); and
(v) on submission of audited reports within prescribed time (para.
3.14).



- 45 -
(c) BPMB on:
(i) prior approvaL by the Bank for modifying maximum debt/equity
ratio limit (para. 2.56); and
(ii)  on the free limit and the maximum size of a single subloan
(para. 3.07).
(d)  MIDF on:
(i)  on the free limit and the maximum size of a single subloan
(para. 3.07).
4.02      During negotiations, understandings were reached on the following:
(a) with MIDF on a plan to improve its liquidity (para. 2.83) and
arrears position (para. 2.85);
(b) with BPMB and MIDF on arrangements relating to Special Accounts
(para. 3.11); and
Cc)  with the Government on BPMB's resource plan and the Government's
agreement in principle to provide BPMB with the necessary resources
during 1984-88 (para. 2.68).
4.03      Conditions of Effectiveness.  Signing of subsidiary loan agreements
between the Government and BPMB and MIDF satisfactory to the Bank, will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (paras. 3.04 and 3.08).
4.04      Condition of Disbursement.  Establishment of Special Accounts
(Revolving Funds) will be a condition of disbursement of the BPMB and MIDF
portions of the loan (para. 3.11).
4.05      Recommendation.  Subject to the above conditions and agreements, a
Bank loan of US$52.1 million (inclusive of a front-end fee of US$0.1 million)
for 15 years, including 3 years grace, on standard terms, is recommended to be
made to the Government of MaLaysia.



ANNEX 1
- 46 -
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Lending Rates /a of Selected Institutions as of December 31. 1983
X p.a.
Commercial Banks
By Sectors
Agriculture                                                            11.85
Mining and quarrying                                                   11.20
Manufacturing                                                          11.15
Electricity                                                             9.73
Construction                                                           12.31
Wholesale and retail trade and restaurants and hotels                  11.58
Transport and storage                                                  10.68
Financing, insurance, real estate and business services                12.18
Other services                                                         11.78
International bodies                                                  13 50
Miscellaneous                                                          11.16
Total                                                               11.60
Loans to Buinputera                                                      11.63
Finance Companies
By Sectors
Agriculture                                                            12.40
Mining and quarrying                                                   12.14
Manufacturing                                                          11.76
Electricity                                                             8.42
Construction                                                           12.86
Wholesale and retail trade and restaurants and hotels                  12.32
Transport and storage                                                  11.21
Financing, insurance, real estate and business services               14.21
Other services                                                         12.26
Total                                                                12.01
Merchant Banks
Call loans                                                               12.13
Term loans
1 month to less than 3 months                                         13.50
3 months to less than 6 months                                        11.70
6 months to less than 9 months                                         10.50
9 months to less than 1 year                                           12.51
1 year                                                                12.13
Over 1 year to less than 4 years                                      10.25
Over 4 years                                                            9.50
Total Loans                                                         11.13
/a Refers to average lending rate.
AEP Projects Department
May 15, 1984



ANNEX 2
- 47 -                       Page 1 of 5
MALAYSIA
SNMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Policy Statement
(Adopted by the Board on                  )
1.   BROAD OBJECTIVES
1.1. The primary objective of the Bank is to develop, increase and
accelerate the active participation of Bumiputera entrepreneurs in
the industrial and business sectors of the economy - either estab-
lishing projects on their own or in joint venture with other
Malaysian or foreign partners.
1.2. The Bank is fully committed to creating more Bumiputera entrepre-
neurs and developing the existing ones through identifying, ini-
tiating, developing, financing, implementing and managing sound
projects. As a Government-owned institution, BPFB operates with the
given mandate according to policies formulated by the Board of
Directors and within the framework of the Company's Act under which
BPMB was registered. The Bank does not fall under the purview of
the Banking Act.
1.3. BPMB also runs a special Entrepreneurial Development Program for
Bumiputeras who are new and inexperienced in business. This program
is comprehensive which includes a relatively low credit component.
2.   CREDIT ELIGIBILITY
2.1. Financing is confined to Bumiputera entrepreneurs and enterprises of
which the Bumiputera share of ownership is at least 51%.
2.2. BPMB finances only those undertakings which are, or promise to be,
soundly managed and which appear, on the basis of careful appraisal
of technical, market, financial and economic aspects, to be viable
and which contribute towards broader developmental objectives.
3.   LENDING POLICIES
3.1. Types of loans: The Bank's activities are as follows:
(a) Fixed Assets Loans. Term loans are normally provided for up to
15 years and are granted to assist in financing the purchase of
fixed assets including land, building, machinery, equipment,
vehicles and other related items.



-48 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
For projects which require substantial loan funds, the Bank
considers participations in a suitable form of consortium
financing with other financial institutions.
(b) Working Capital Loans. The Bank also offers working capital
financing. This facility is provided as a financial package
together with term loans or as a separate facility.
(c)  Share Financing Loans:  Category A.  The Bank can extend loans
to Bumiputera executives up to a maximum of 2 years income for
purpose of acquiring shares in a particular company. The
important prerequisite is that they must be employed by the
company and receive regular or fixed remuneration and
allowances from the company.
Category B.  Under this category, the Bumiputera individuals
need not necessarily be in full-time employment in the
company. The applicant can be any Bumiputera individual or
100% owned Bumiputera Company and Cooperatives. The maximum
loan amount under this scheme is limited to $2 million.
Cd) Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP). This scheme is offered
to companies with a specific plan to enable the employees to
purchase and own shares in the companies.
Ce) Guarantees. The Bank also offers medium- and long-term
guarantees for industrial machinery and equipmen-t financing
extended by machinery suppliers or other financial institu-
tions. A guarantee fee is payable on the guaranteed amount
outstanding. The criteria, limits and security requirements
shall be the same as for loans where applicable.
(f) Leasing. The Bank also offers leasing facilities up to five
years. After the expiry of the primary lease period, the
lessee is given the option to either carry on leasing the items
at a reduced rent or to acquire the items at preferential
prices.
3.2. Advisory Services. As part of the integrated services, the Bank
provides its clients with a range of pre- and post-implementation
advisory and management services. These include advice and direct
assistance in matters pertaining to identification of new business
opportunities and locating possible joint venture partners, project
planning, various aspects of project implementation and management
including matters pertaining to Government rules and regulations for
the benefit of new promoters and foreign partners seeking joint -ven-
tures.
3.3. Loan Amount. Except for 'Share Financing and Employees Share Owner-
ship Plan (ESOP), the amount for a single loan is at least
$30,000. For Share Financing the minimum for individuals is $5,000
under Category A and $20,000 under Category B, and for companies is
$50,000. No minimum limit is set for ESOP.



ANNEX 2
- 49 -                       Page 3 of 5
3.4. Maturities. The repayment period is determined by the nature of the
projects, ability of the projects to service the loan and the
economic life of the assets offered as security. The loan period
does not normally exceed 15 years. -be grace period is determined
on a case-by-case basis.
3.5. Lending Rates.  BPMIB's lending rates are determined on the basis of
cost of funds and spread requirements (to cover administrative cost,
provisions for bad debts and a moderate profit).
3.6. Collateral. The Bank accepts a first charge on the property/fixed
assets of the enterprise as collateral for the loans granted. As a
general rule, the types of collateral and its fair realizable value
are determined as follows:
Type of Collateral                             Z of Cost
Land                                            up to 90
Building                                        up to 80
Machinery & Equipment                           up to 75
Life Insurance (surrender value)               up to 100
Marketable Securities                           up to 50
Working Capital Stocks                          up to 50
4.  PROCUREENT POLICIES
Where projects require locally fabricated or locally procured off-the-
shelf equipment and for local construction contracts, clients are
required to submit at least 3 quotations from suppliers and;or con-
tractors. Although not favored by the Bank, it would consider, on an
exceptional basis, a case where a client has already committed himself by
way of down-payments on particular equipment, etc. In such a case, the
Bank verifies on its own from other suppliers and contractors the
reasonableness of the prices already contracted for. Likewise, where
equipment is directly imported, clients are required to obtain at least
three quotations from different international sources and the Bank
reviews the final choice made by the clients. The Bank takes all reason-
able care to assure that the best possible equipment is procured at the
lowest price, all factors considered.
5.   ANTI-POLLUTION MEASURES
The Bank ensures that in the projects it approves appropriate measures
are incorporated in the form of special ancilliary equipment so as to
comply with existing laws on pollution/environment control.
6.   INVESTMENT POLICIES
6.1. The Bank does take equity in enterprises which it ccnsiders profit-
able and where it is required to fulfill Government objectives in
raising Bumiputera status in all industrial and commercial
endeavors.



ANNEX 2
-50-                           Page 4 of 5
6.2. Equity investment is not normally to exceed 30Z of the paid-up
capital of any enterprise. Total equity investment may not exceed
the sum of the Bank's own paid-up share capital and free reserves.
Equity investments are considered temporary in nature, to be dis-
posed of at the earliest opportunity to other competent Bumiputeras.
6.3. Investments by the Bank in its subsidiaries are exempt from the 30%
limit mentioned in 6.1 above.
7.  PLANT HIRE POLICIES
7.1. Plant Hire Operations is a special activity started at the request
of the Government to alleviate the perenniel problems of Bumiputera
contractors in high plant costs and intermittent plant utilization.
7.2. Plant Hire facilities are given to Bumiputera contractors princi-
pally in the construction industry (both individuals and Bumiputera-
controlled companies). Priorities in plant hire are for civil
engineering works especially Government contract jobs.
7.3. Hiring of equipment normally includes the operators as well and on
plant maintenance. M1inimum rental is for one day. Pricing policy
is based on the cost of plant, owning cost, operating cost,
a,ministrative cost and profit margin. Generally, price fixing will
be 5%-1OZ below market rate for all equipment.
8.  MONEY  MARKET OPERATIONS
8.1. The Bank's money market operations are essentially limited to the
placement of its surplus funds with financial institutions approved
by the Ministry of Finance and are of fixed tenure, i.e., 3, 6, 9 or
12 months. The financial institutions approved by the Mtinistry of
Finance are designated commercial banks, finance companies and mer-
chant banks. In order to overcome the rigidity of fixed tenure
deposits, the Bank has also been authorized by its Board of
Directors to purchase money market instruments such as negotiable
certificates of deposits, etc. with a repurchase obligation which
allow for more convenient planning of the Bank's liquidity and opti-
mization of returns on its funds.
8.2. As a policy, the total amount of placement with any single institu-
tion at any time does not exceed 15% of the Bank's equity and free
reserves.
9.  FINANCIAL POLICIES
9.1. Total Exposure. Total loans and investments outstanding at anytime
to a single enterprise shall not exceed 20% of BPXIB's equity and
free reserves. Guarantees are considered as loans for this purpose
and are counted to the extent of underlying amounts outstanding.



-1 -ANNEX 2
-~ 51 -Page 5 of 5
9.2 Investment Exposure. No single commitment shall exceed 10% of
B,[B's equity and free reserves.  Total investment portfolio shall
not exceed BPMB's equity and free reserves.
9.3 Debt-Coverage. BPMB would not incur consolidated term debts in
excess of five times its paid-up share capital and accumulated
reserves. Term debts include guarantees outstanding and the
indebtedness of the subsidiary companies.
9.4 Reserves. Since BPMB is not expected to pay dividends, its annual
profits will be retained and thus used to strengthen its equity
base.
9.5 Foreign Exchange Risk. BPMB shall protect itself adequately against
foreign exchange risks arising from its borrowing, lending,
investment or other operations.
10. ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING POLICIES
In assisting clients to the fullest possible extent, BPE4B will continu-
ously build and strengthen its management and staff skills and evolve an
efficient and sound organizational structure. To those ends, it shall
adopt equitable and competitive recruitment, employment and compensation
policies. BPMB shall provide training as needed for its staff, to
enhance the quality of human resources at its disposal at any given time.
11. REVISION OF POLICIES
Revision of this Policy Statement can be effected by the Board of
Directors of the Bank.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



ANNEX 3
-52-                            Page 1 of 6
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE FROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Statement of Operational Strategies
(Adopted by the Board of Directors on February 17, 1984)
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.1 The long-term objective of BPMB is to develop, increase and accele-
rate the active participation of Bumiputeras in the industrial and
business sectors of the economy. While striving to achieve thts
objective, the Bank will maintain itself in a sound financial posi-
tion at all times.
1.2 This Statement of Operational Strategies is for the next 5 years
'1984-1988), but it focuses more sharply on the period ending
December 31, 1986. These strategies are based on the assumption of
stable and improving economic conditions in the country. The Bank
will keep these strategies under periodic review to take into
account significant changes in the overall national and inter-
national economic and monetary situation, and the Government's basic
policies and priorities.
2.   OPERATIONS TARGETS
2.1 The Bank regards the period 1984-1986 as a period of serious self-
evaluation and transition. The past progress of the Bank's commit-
ments has been characterized by periods of very rapid growth and
periods of stagnancy. From 1979 to 1983, total operations increased
at a compound rate of 27% a year. However, the actual past trend
was affected by a substantial 77% increase in commitments during
1979-1980 and a subsequent levelling off to almost zero growth
during 1982-1983. The stagnation in the past year was not only
attributable to the economic slowdown, but also to the shift in
BPMB's lending with the focus on manufacturing and its resource con-
straints, particularly in 1983. The Bank will aim at consistent and
sustainable growth in the future. For the period 1984-1988, total
operations on a net commitment basis are projected to grow at *'v
average annual nominal rate of 21% while lending operations are
expected to grow at 25%. (See Table 1 for further details).
2.2  The Bank will also strengthen its commitment in developmental acti-
vities, such as the Entrepreneur Development Program (EDP) and
Nursery Factory Scheme, the importance of which is not adequately



ANNEX 3
- 53                               Page 2 of 6
reflected in its numprical targets (Table 1). Such activities are
critical to the realization of the Bank's objectives while they also
help to create the basis for the Bank's future lending business.
2.3 The Bank decided, in 1983, to emphasize the manufacturing sector in
its operations to ensure its priorities be in line with those of the
Government for the overall economy. This sectoral emphasis will be
maintained in the future and the Bank aims at the industrial sector
to account for 70% of the annual loan commitment by the end of 1985
and thereafter.
2.4 In accordance with the national emphasis on the development of
small-scale Bumiputera entrepreneurs, the Bank decided, in 1983, to
participate in a new Government-backed World Bank project. This is
a new operational thrust for the Bank. The project is expected to
start in 1985. The Bank expects the project to gain momentum in
1985; the total amount of loans under this project is expected to be
M$150 million for about 900 loans by the end of 1987. The Bank aims
at increasing its involvement in this program and expects it to grow
annually by at least X$10 million even beyond 1987. The loans under
this new project are expected to, account for about 21% of annual
operations by 1986.
2.5 In addition to the increased emphasis on the manufacturing sector
and the new SSE program referred to above, other initiatives will be
developed on the basis of a thorough evaluation of the Bank's
existing varied programs and activities. The aim of this evaluation
will be to determine the most desirable act%vities from the points
of view of national priorities, optimum utiliz-tion of limited and
increasingly costly resources (see para. 3) and efficiency and
effectiveness of staff. Such evaluation will be coupleted by
December 31, 1985. It is the intention of the Bank to use the
results of such an evaluation exercise not only to maximize the
cost-benefits of the various current operational activities but also
to use them to develop a long-term plan for the Bank's future. (In
this context, the Bank also intends to accelerate its efforts to
implement a Profit Center Concept and closely monitor its operations
on this basis.)
3.   RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS
3.1 As stated above (para. 2), BPMB's operations have in the recent past
been constrained by a shortage of resources. Historically, BPMB has
almost completely depended on the Government for its capital and
long-term resources. In recognition of the country's fiscal
situation, the Bank intends gradually to reduce this dependence,
particularly at a time when the Government is facing severe budget
constraints. Hence, the Bank will actively seek to raise funds from
the private sector as well as the World Bank and other international
sources to supplement its traditional resources. Market borrowings
are planned to start in 1984 and the Bank expects that such borrow-
ings (net) will meet 42Z of the Bank's annual resource needs in 1984



ANNEX 3
54                                 Page 3 of 6
and some 25% during 1985-88. The Government contribution to the SSE
Program, however, will continue to account for 50% of total resource
requirement as agreed between the Government, World Bank and BPMB.
3.2  The overall aim of the Bank is to diversify its funding sources.
However, dependence on resource allocation from the Government will
continue, but to a lesser degree than in the past. In addition, 50Z
of the funds required for the SSE Program will be obtained from the
World Bank. (See Table 2 for further details).
4.   EQUITY REQUIREMENTS
Although BPMB's debt-equity ratio, after taking into account the equities
and term debts as well as guarantees of its subsidiary companies,
currently does not exceed the policy limit of 5:1, it is necessary to
strengthen the Bank's equity base in support of its planned expansion in
operations. The Bank will negotiate with the Government the injection of
fresh capital funds or conversion of part of the existing Government
loans into equity.
5.  LENDING RATE STRUCTURE
5.1  In the past, BPMB was able to secure subsidized resources from the
Governmen_ at an average cost of some 3.0%. On this basis, the Bank
was ensured of some 6% spread to cover its cost, including provi-
sions for doubtful accounts and to achieve a moderate profit.
In the future, however, the Bank is faced with increasing resource
cost since a major portion of its resource requirements will have to
come from other than budgetary allocations (see para. 3). However,
the Bank requires a spread of about 5% to meet its administrative
costs, make provisions for doubtful debts, build up required
reserves and earn a modest profit to maintain financial soundness as
well as fulfill its development objectives.
In view of this, the Bank has reviewed its interest rate structure
and modified its lending rate strategies as follows:
(a) Uplift average interest rates on its regular lending to 11X
from this year from about 10% obtained in 1983.
(b) Attempt to raise funds in the capital market at rates close to
10% (or below), but not exceeding 10.5%, given the current
interest rate structure in Malaysia and also the assurance of
Government guarantees.
(c) Blend purely developmental and commercial functions with the
aim to ensure continued financial soundness.
(d) Endeavor to obtain an overall spread of about 5%.



ANNEX 3
- 55 -                        Page 4 of 6
(e) Negotiate with the Government its resource requirements (see
Table 2) at a cost not exceeding 2% to be able to get the 5%
spread referred to above. On this basis, BPMB would be able to
secure a spread which would allow it the continuation of its
development role and maintenance of financial soundness at the
same time.
5.2 The assurance of a 5% spread is premised on the following assump-
tions (for further details see Table 3):
REQUIRED AVERAGE LENDING RATES AND RETURNS
Regular Lending:
for manufacturing                       11.0
for non-manufacturing                   12.0
SSE Lending
up to $100,000                           9.0
100,001-300,000                         10.0
300,001-500,000                         11.0
EDP lending                                8.0
Share financing                           11.0
Venture capital operations                 5.0
Investments                                8.0
Guarantees                                 1.5
Plant hire                                 7.0
Nursery factory
scheme operations                        3.0
MAXIMUM COST OF FUNDS
Government loans                          2.0%
(for both regular and SSE lending)
World Bank loans                          7.3%
Private borrowings                       10.5%
Internally generated funds                0.0%
Although the spread for BPMB's operations during 1984 is expected to
be only 4.4%, which is below the required 5% and also below the
spreads in the past (6%), the Bank is expected to sustain financial
soundness and offset the reduction in overall spread by increasing
the efficiency in its operations.
5.3  The Bank will periodically review its lending rates and make appro-
priate adjustments if and when required by a significant change in
the inflation rate, the Bank's borrowing cost or the overall rate
structure in the country.



ANNEX 3
- 56 -                             Page 5 of 6
6.   OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT
6.1 Past Bank operations were characterized by a satisfactory spread due
to low resource cost. Hence, the Bank was able to support clients
irrespective of cost. Due to the envisaged reduction in the spread
in the future, the Bank must strengthen its organization as well as
increase its operational efficiency. To this end the following
action program has been developed:
(a)  Strengthening of the Management Information System
The Bank intends to closely monitor its operations through a
pertinent and comprehensive management irCormation system. It
is expected to give early warning signals to the management to
trigger the necessary actions. For the development of such a
system, the Bank will employ an expert for a period of between
6-12 months.
(b) Intensification of Training
Existing staff will be upgraded by pertinent training and new
recruits will be exposed to intensified training to uplift the
skills and efficiency. The training program has been attached
as Table 3.
Cc) Strengthening of Project Supervision
Project supervision will be strengthened to reduce arrears and
improve loan collection.  The Bank specifically intends to con-
centrate on problem projects in its supervision efforts. An
engineering advisor, who will be recruited by the Bank for a
-two-year period, will dedicate part of his time to set up
appropriate supervision procedures and particularly support
BPMB's engineering staff in their supervision effort. He will
also be involved in developing a suitable program in project
supervision, particularly for the Bank's engineering staff to
strengthen their contribution to effective project supervision.
(d) Extension Services
The new SSE Program, which will start implementation before the
end of 1984, is an integrated program which also includes
extension services from the various participating Government
institutions for those entrepreneurs in need of such ser-
vices. They are expected to contribute towards an overall
improvement of BPMB's loan portfolio.
(e) Strengthening of Loan Administration
BPMB intends to improve project evaluation by intensified
training of appraisal officers and strengthening of its
engineering department. The ratio of project appraisels to
officer employed is also expected to increase from currently
about 4 to 8 per year by 1988. Loan administration procedures
are currently under review with the intent to streamline them.



ANNEX 3
57 -                           Page 6 of 6
(f) Loan Collection Targets
In view of the Bank's resource constraints and high arrears, it
will tighten credit control and step up loan collection from about
55% in 1983 to 65% in 1984, 70% in 1985, 75% in 1986 and even-
tually to 80% in 1988. At the same time, the Bank will strive
to reduce its arrears and foreclosed accounts from about 15.2%
of total portfolio (December 31, 1983) to 10% by 1986 and 8% by
1988. This also inclu4es expediting legal proceedings to speed
up recovery of foreclosed accounts.
7.   PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
7.1  Profitability - The successful implementation of the foregoing
startegies/action programs will ensure a steady growth in the net
profit after tax from $12.3 million in 1984 to $15.3 million in 1986
and finally to $21.8 million in 1988 (see Table 3 for details).
The returns (before tax) on average total assets are projected to be
4.0% for 1984, 3.6% for 1985, 3.0% for 1986, 2.7% for 1987 and 2.9%
for 1988. The annual returns (before tax) on shareholders funds is
expected to average about 21% for the period 1984-1988.
7.2  Cash Flow - BPMB is expected to experience a healthy cash flow
position throughout the period. Only in 1985 is the net cash flow
from operations negative (-$3.2 million) but the deficit can easily
be covered by the cumulative surplus available. In 1984, although
the net total resource requirement (sources of funds) on a commit-
ment basis is in deficit of $63 million (see Table 2), the cash flow
is still expected to show a surplus of $15.3 million.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



-58 -                                  ANNEX 3
Table 1
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Projected Commitments, 1984-1988
($ million)
Average
interest
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   rate (%)
Regular loans and leasing             110    108    135    160    200    11.0
SSE loans                               -     40      50     60      70     9.5/a
EDP loans                               9      12     15     20      20     8.0
Subtotal                          119    160    200    240    290
Share financing                         6      6       6      6       6    11.0
Venture capital                         5       5      5      5       5     5.0/b
Investment                             10      5       5      5       5     8.0/b
Subtotal                           21     16      16     16     16
Guarantees                              4      4       4      4       4     1.5
Subtotal                          144    180    220    260  3310
Plant hire                              8     10      10     10      10     7.0/b
Nursery factory scheme                 12      6       6      6       6     3.0d7
Total Operations                    164    196    236    276    326
/a   Interest rates for SEE Loans are as follows:
Up to $100,000                 9%
$100,001 - $300,000          10%
$300,001 - S500,000          11%
For this projection it is assumed that 20% of the SEE loans will be up to
$100,000 (average $60,000), 40% will be between $100,001 - $300,000
(average $200,000), and 40% above $300,000 (average $550,000).
/b   Rate of return.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Resource Requirements, 1984-88 on Commitment Basis
($ million)
Cost of
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   funds (2)
Government Loans
(for BPMB's regular
lending activities)            49       60      70       70      70        2.0
SSE Lending
overnment loans (50%)                   20       25      30       35       2.0
World Bank loans (50%)                  20      25       30      35        7.3
Subtotal (SSE)                -       40      50       60      70
Total Government Loans         49       80      95      100     105
Private Borrowings
Gross                          60       60      70       70      80
Net/a                          60       60      60       50      48       10.5
Internallly generated funds       13      15       16      17      22        0.0
Collection
G-ross                         27       43      66       95     122
Net/a                          22       38      58       79      98        0.0
Total Resources                  144     213     254      276     308
Net commitment from
previous years/b            (47)       -       -        -       -
Net Total Resources              97      213     254      276     308
Total Operations /c            160     192     232      272     322
Surplus/(Deficit)                (63)     21      22        4     (14)
Cumulative surplus/deficit       (63)    (42)    (20)    f16)    (30)
/a Repayment Terms: Government Loans (5 + 10 years), Private Loans
(1 + 6 years) and World Bank Loan (3 + 12 years).
/b   According to resource statement.
7E9  Excluding guarantees.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



-60-
TAbla 3
NALAYS!A
SMALL-SCALC! ZSMTlRZ SK DEVKLOPMKNT PROJZCT
Bank Pesbn euman Mhlaymia lerhad
Trainine Requireownts (198"-67)
4mber of progream
1n-house                         (No. of parttetpante)
Targot                                                      & sources     Asaistance        N - NW    E - Cxistins
Course ticle     sroup         xporience    Coverage            Duration     Available       required      1984    1955    1986    1987
Functional
Project Iden-    o PrIl       1-2 years     - Project cycle    2-3 weeks   - Lecturers   - tecturerr         -        1       2       3
tification     o R&D        1-2 years     - Entrepreneurs                                - Currtculm             (l8-E)  (36-E)  (36-K)
o EDP       1-2 years        Creation                                      Design
o fanking   1-2 year.      - Proj. Idanti-                               - H terials
fication
- Proj. Devt.
- Entre. Devt.
Project Evalu-   o All        Newly         - Market Analysis               - Lecturers   - Lecturers        2        1       2       2
ation            Div/Dept. Recrulted      - Tech. App.                    - Curriculum   - Materials    (40-N)  (20-N)  (40-N)  (40-N)
(within 6     - Financial Anal.  3-4 weeks   - Materials       (cases)
months)       - Legal Aspect                     (cases)
- Hgt- App.
Project Super-   o EDP        1-2 years     - Proj. Ip.         3-4 weeks   - Lecturers   - Lecturers        1       2        2       2
vision         o banking   1-2 yeers      - Proj. Op.                     - Curriculum  - Came          (18-E)  (36-E)  (30-K)  (36-C)
o Nursery                 - Normal Follow-                 - Materials     Studies
up                              (cases)
- Proj. UAhabi-
litation
Developu nt
Systematic       o Super-    Over 2         - Situation Anal.  4 days       - Lecturers   -                  2       2        2       2
Managerial       vioors    years          - Problem Anal.                 - MaterLals                   (40-E)  (40-E)  (40-K)  (40-K)
Analysis         Officers                 - Decision Anal.
- Potential Pro-
blem Analysis
Co'anication    o Supervisor                - Verbal & non-    1-2 days    - Lecturers                       2       2        2       2
Officers                  verbal Commani-               - Mnterials                    (40-E)  (40-C)  (40-E)  (40-EK
cation                        - Exercises
- Com. Styles
- Zxerciste
Seminar for      o Potential Interested    - Comunication    2 weeks        - Lecturers                      I       0        1       0
Lecturers        Trainers  and have       - Motivating                    - Materials                   (15-E)    -    (13-K)    -
training        learners                      - Exereeas
skills        - Trg. Nsthodo-
logy/Aids
- Practical Demon-
strations
AZ? Projects Departamnt
January 31 1984



ANNEX 4
-61                                                 Tab
SKALL-SCALE ZNTERPRISE PROJ=C
bank PF_baaunoun htlaisia drhad
Susrzi of Operations. 1979-83
(I '000)
t979           1980            1981            1982             19N3
No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount   No.   Amount    No.   Amount
Loan Approval.
F-xed assets                         75   37,473   196   91.511   166  111,069   163   85.751    187   78,063
Worklng cepZtal                      51   28,267    87   24,308   132   25,016   116   32.348        76   24.115
Leasing                               -        -      -        -    22   10,561    27    9,065       33    7,305
Subtotal                        126   65.740   283  115.819   320  146.646   306  127.164    296  109.483
Cancellations                        26   15,626    63   33,051    68   32,109    52   16,732        39   19,549
Total Loan Approvale (Nat)       100   50.114   220   82.768   252  114.537   254  110.432    257   89.934
Other Approgyla
Share financing                      10      864    24    6,766    23    3,531    37   10,743        32    7,026
Venture capital financing             -        -     -         -     a       596    41    2.085      68    3,939
Investments                           I    1.050     3    1.980      8   17,900      5    4,762      12    8,477
Subtotal                            11    1.914    27    8,746    39   22.027    83   17.590    112   1.V U2
Guarantees                            -        -     -         -     -         -     6       604      3    4,090
Cancellation.                        2        60     5    1.800    10    2,609       7      741       8    1,025
Siofra (od rapprovals (MO))       9    1.854    22    6.946    29   19.418    82   17.453    107   22.507
Total Net Approvals              109   51.968   242   89.714   281  133.955   336  127.885    364  112.441
Disbureupnta
Fixed assets                              24,985          33,753         41,911          83,893           67,808
Working capital                           49,470         37.630          59,297          29,229           19,435
Leaing                                       307             627           3,038          8,267            3.066
Otber                                      8,317           8,935          15,569         17,108           49.521
Subtotal                               83.079         80.945         110.815         138.497          139.830
lnvestasnts                                  3,761           7,303         10,160           2,317            8.561
Total disburesmnts                     86.840         86.248         120.975         140.814          148.391
Npapents
Fixed assets                               7.093          21,1?7          13,579         28.409           32,564
Working capltal                           24,986          10,144         36.939          28,382           14,815
Leeing                                        -             127            426           2.805            4,021
Other                                          -           4,257               -               -           3,664
Total R pa    tsnt                    32.079         35.725           0              59.596           55.0654
Total Outstandlan
Fixed assets                                N.A.            N.A.           N.A.         161,638    601  214,106
Working capital                             N.A.            N.A.            N.A.         43,007    296   47,077
Leasing                                     N.A.           N.A.            N.A.          10,113      55   10.352
Other                                       N.A.            N.A.            N.A.         34,644    183   62.633
Subtotal                       N.A.   65.410  N.A.  110.630  N.A.  170.501   940  249.402  1.135  334.168
_veetmcnta /a                             16.931         22,234          32.394          34,711           43,272
Total Outtan-ding                        82.341         132.864        202.895         284.113          377.440
/a Excluding guarantees.
AZ? Projects Dsp rtuent
January 31, 1984



- 62-                                             ANNEX £
Table 2
MALAYSIA
StALL-SCALE ENTERISE PROJEC
BRAN PANEHUN MALAYSIA BERRAD
Characteristics of Total   -tu.ntr for the Years 1979-83
and Lans Outsrandin  asof December 31. 1S3
(24'000)
Loans
1979         1980          1981          1982          1983     outstandlnlR
No. Amount No.  Amt No.  Amn  'NI.o. Am ount    .    ot   .  Amount
By Purpo c
Fixed asset loans               54  24,457  151  61,538  130  U8,622  143  73.378  166  67,657    601  214,106
Wrklng  alta1 loans             46 25657  70  21,605  104  16,686  91  29,913  62   16,803   296  47,077
Other                            9   1,854  21    6,571  47  28,647  102  24,594  136  27,981   238  72,985
Total                       109 51.968  242  89.714  281  133,955  336  127.885 364  112.441  1.135  334,168
By size
Ulp to SO.m                      4     180  28   1.020  22         928  29    1,104  126   4.812   413   13.403
50.001 - 100,000                22  2,055  73   4,243  64    3.686   85   6,005  113   8,613    282  25,911
100.001 - 300.000               52  8,812   91   13,416  99   12,647  126  19,957  60   11.218   236  47.448
300.001 - 500.000               10  3,885   16   5.937   11   3.807   24   9,636   16   7,056    40   17.942
500,001 - 1,000,000             12  7,776  11   6,082   17   10,580   20  10.654  28  21.894          63  39,611
Above 1,000,000                  9 29.260  23  59,016  68  102.307  52  80.529  21   58.848    101  189.853
Total                       109 51,968  242  89,714  281  133,955 366  127.885 364  112.441  1.135  334.168
By Sector
Loggin                           3    612   -          -    2      274  11   3.542    2       124    17   4,723
2ting A quarrying                5  3.178  13   6,572  16   6,238   27  10.817    6   3,811           40  11.432
Manfacturln food                13  8.815  18   9,244   34   25,762   28   11,042  41    5,830    113   7,366
4 tobacco
Textles                          9   4.695   1       100   -        -    2      174   9    3.026    20   1.231
ibod & vood products            14  4.830  20   8,560  25   13.126  11   5,009   16   7.031           79  39.349
Furniture & fixtures             4    362  14   1,577  14   2.050    2          149  15       856    49       927
Printin 4 publlsblng             4    651  11   1,927  10    1.023  23   3,672  14   3,643    60  19.656
Chemicel products                2    525  10   6,518   5    1.912  16   6.786   4    1,517    37  16.745
Plastic products                 -       -   -         -    2      593   -        -   4    2.340       6   1,409
Rubber productz                  4   2.126   -         -    3    1,415-  -        -   -         -      7   4,566
Nonmetallic mineral products     4    522  14   2,475  14   3.651   7    1.980  10   6.364    47   9.513
Machinery & metal products       2    524   8    5,822   7   4,463  18  12,363  19   8,003    51  53.822
NDtels a tourim                  4  5.272  11   9,581    9   7.864   2   2.572   4    3.537    28   9.442
Notion pIctureslentertaiumen     -       -   4       614   -        -    3      595   6   2,759    14   2.217
T-npaprtti                      20  7,392  61   14,289  65  25.614  68  17,374  70   16,750   197  35.202
Repairs & general servics        5   1,920  13   6,1BW  22   9,742  38  13.888  25   5.956    92   6,698
consrcuctlin
Tradion                          6   2,642  12   3,825  13   4,390   18   4,260   19   2,019    66   8,040
Property .welopsent              -       -   4   4,000  10  13,945  20  21,584  20   18,496    43  34,178
ProEseiona. services             3  1,748  11   4,467  17   6,516  23   5,975  39   9,143    81  23,934
MLecellaneou& services           7  6,154  17   4,013   13   5.377   19   6,103  41   11,326    98  43,718
Total                      109  51.968 242  89,714  281  133.955  336  127.885 364  112.441  1.135 334.168
New project                     82  38.143  213  80,038  250  109.352 298  110,443  309  87,695   926  44.792
Existing project                27  13,825  29   9.676  31  24,603  38  17,442  55  24.746   209 289.376
Total                       109  51.968  242  89.714  281  133.955  336  127.885 364  112.441  1.135 334.168
B Location (State)
Se:.angor and Federal Territory  41  35,608  85  38,395  108  71,437  113  69.823  138  47,515    595 215,204
N. Sembilan                      6  1,535   11   1,675   14   3.175   22   3.404   15   4.108    45   4,544
Malacca                          3    662   7        728   8    1,606   17   1,848   14       829    41   4.097
eAh                              9  4.447   18   8,074   20   6.096   21   6,306  21   4,078          55   11,380
PerIl                           1     150   2       170   3      480    1      260   -         -      -       -
Pena"                            6  1.245   8    1.284   8    3.182  22   4,733  22   4,246
Perak                            5    615  16   3,304  13   2,051  23   3,862  28  18.325    47   6,497
Jobor                            9   1,761  24  12,952  24   7.794   36  16.167  30   8.201           57   5.889
Pahang                           9    804  14   2,469  22   13,243  24  10.020  19   6,561    95  22,338
Trenganu                         5  1.032  23   3,690  14   2,500  20   3,114  27   6,948    66  28,437
Kelantnn                         7    674  20   2,068  28   6.340   14   1,693  23   5,351            83   13,112
Sarawak                          7  2.435   12  13,105   17  14,301   22   5,855  27    6,279         51  21.670
Sahbb                            1  1,000   2    1,800    2   1.750    1        800   -         -      -        -
Total                       109 51.968  242  89.714  281  133.955  336  127.885 364  112.441  1.135 334.168
AEP Projects Deprtment
January 31. 1984



ANNEX 5
- 63 -                           Table 1
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Summarized Balance Sheets, December 31, 1979-83
(M'O00)
1979     1980     1981     1982       1983/a
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and bank balances             105       95      263       356      124
Fixed deposits                  28,405   18,000   57,219   69,617   51,271
Receivables from:
Loans to Associate/            8,032   13,250   19,624   11,608    2,665
Subsidiary Compa.y
Other receivables              8,317    4,060    6,939    7,801   29,993/b
Term loans due within one       27,860   29,925   49,964   64,532   53,265
year
Provision for doubtful            (780)  (1,170)  (3,158)  (6,178)  (7,327)
accounts
Subtotal                     27,080   28,155   46,806   58,354   45,938
Accruals                           431      741      958    1,904    1,365
Stocks                              16      101      251       467       27
Sundry debtors and               2,105    3,375    7,239   13,055   27,602
prepayments
Total Current Assets         74,491   67,777  134,669  163,162  158.984
Fixed Assets
Redium-/long-term loans         17,201   59,395   85,153  152,067  233,445
Amount due from subsidiary       4,000    4,000    8,821   13,394   14,800
and associated companies
Subtotal                     21.201   63,395   93,974  165,461  248,245
Investment in subsidiary
companies                     10,005   13,483   12,598   11,848   13,198
Investment in associated         5,920    5,768   16,813   19,880   26,091
companies
Other investments                1,006    2,983    2,983    2,983    3,983
Subtotal                     16.931   22,234   32,394   34,711   43,272
Fixed Assets                       323      533    1,694   18,438   13,775
Total Fixed Assets           38,455   86.162  138,062  218,610  305.292
Total Assets                112,946  153.939  262,731  381,772  464,427



ANNEX 5
Table 1
-64 -                             Page 2 of 2
1979     1980     1981     1982   1983 /a
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Deposits                        4,000    1,000    3,000    5,000   38,171
Short-term borrowings /c       27,961   27,961   28,164   28,164         -
Bank overdraft                    406    1,787       807    2,940    3,022  -
Short-term portion of term
loans                             -         -      559    2,755    3,034
Payables                          497       740    1,392    4,200   10,637
Accruals                         1,304    1,065    1,263    1,228       904
Other                             326       153        -        -        -
Total Current Liabilities   34,494   32,706   35,185   44,287   55,768
Term Debts
Loans from government          56,723   98,128  201,150  304,403  322,105
Other                               -         -        -        -        -
Total Term Debts            56,723   98,128  201,150  304,403  322,105
'Equity
Paid-in capital                20,000   20,000   20,000   20,000   64,389
Undistributed profits            1,729    3,105    6,396   13,082   22,014
Total Equity   /            21,729   23,105   26,396   33,082   86,403
Total Liabilities and
Shareholders' Equity     112,946  153,939  262,731  381,772  464,276
Contingent Liabilities /d         3,166   38,686   47,927   33,535   84,048
/a Unaudited.
7-b Including $29.3 million receivables from subsidiary and associate
companies.
/c From Bank Negara.
7- BPMB's contingent liabilities include M$45 million guarantees to
subsidiary companies and $26 million to associate companies.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



ANNEX 5
-65 -                               Table 2
MALAYSIA
SHALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan 11alaysia Berhad
Summarized Income Statements for the Years Ended
December 31, 1979-83
(M1$'000)
1979     1980    1981    1982       1983/a
Income
Interest on loans to industries         3,362    5,028  11,600  17,008       25,647
Interest on loans to subsidiaries         694    1,558      912   1,367       2,191
Interest on fixed deposits              1,163    1,374   2,325   6,010        4,793
Income on investments                     610    1,755   2,265   2,032        2,261
Net profit/(loss) from sales unit            -      (31)     37      (22)         -
Net profit/(loss) from plant hire            -        -      (68)    230          -
scheme
Other income                               309      767     856      910        865
Total Income                         6,138   10,451  17,927  27,535       35,757
Expense
Financial expense                        1,269    2,804   5,196   7,894       8,040
General & administrative expense
Personnel cost                        1,910    2,602   4,466   6,077        1,063
Rent                                    204       342     477      705      1,109
Others                                  998    1,668   2,593   2,791        3,583
Provision for doubtful accounts            203      989   1,388   3,081       1,088
Others                                     168        -       -      300          -
Total Expenses                      4,752    8,405  14,121  20,849       20,883
Income Before Tax                       1,385    2,046   3,806   6,686       14,874
Less:  Taxation                              489      670     515        0/b    5,900
Net Income                            896    1,376   3,291   6,686        8,974
/a Unaudited.
/b No tax obligations due to capital allowances from assets of plant hire scheme.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



- 66-                              ANNEX 5
Table 3
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Financial Indicators. 1979-83
(at 0u0)
1979     1980     1981      1982  1983
General
lotal assets                      112,946  153,939  262,731  381,772 464,276
Loan portfolio short-term          44,209   47,235   76,527   84,211 85.923
loans /a
Long-termloans                     21,201   63,395   93,974  165,401 248,245
Subtotal                        65,410   10.630  170.501  249,402 334.168
Investments                        16,931   22,234   32.394   34,711 43,272
Total Portfolio                    82 241  132 864  202.895  284 113 377 440
Short-term resources               37             r       6    33.164 38.171
Long-term resources                56,723   98,128  201,150  304,403 322.105
Equity                             21,729   23,105   26.396   33.082 86,403
Net profit                            896    1,376    3,291    6,686 8,974
As Z of Total Average Assets
Gross income                          6.9       7.9      8.6      8.5 8.5
Resource cost /b                      1.4       2.1      2.5      2.4 1.9
Average spread-Tc                     5.5       5.8      6.1      6.1 6.6
Administrative expenses               3.5       3.5      3.6      3.0 2.8
Provision for doubtful                0.2       0.7      0.7      1.0 0.3
accounts
Gross profit                          1.6       1.5      1.8      2.1 3.5
Corporate income tax                  0.6      0.5       0.2      0.0 1.4
Net profit                            1.0       1.0      1.6      2.1 2.1
Income from term loans                4.6      4.9       6.0      5.7 6.6
Cost of term resources                1.4      2.1       2.5      2.4 1.9
Net profit as Z of total
average net worth                   4.2       4.0     13.3     22.5 15.0
Other Ratios
Provision as Z of total               0.9       1.3      1.6      2.2 1.9
portfolio
Current ratio                         2.2       2.1      3.8      3.7 2.9
Long-term debt/equity ratio           2.6       5.9      9.4     10.2 4.7
Long-term debt/equity ratio           4.0      4.3       7.7      9.3 4.9
(consolidated)
Total debt/equity ratio               5.5       7.2     10.6     11.2 5.2
Total consolidated                    4.2       5.4      8.8     10.4 5.4
debt/equity ratio
Interest service cover                N.A.     N.A.      N.A.    10.4 13.2
ratio (times) le
Debt service cover ratio              N.A.     N.A.      N.A.     7.8 5.0
(times)/d
Book value per share                 1.09      1.16     1.32     1.65 1.34
Dividend payout ratio /f                -         -        -        - -
/a Including term loan portion due within 12 months.
7A  Resource cost comprise financial expenses for both short-term and long-
term resources.
/c  Average spread:  Cross income less Resource cost.
7T  Definition of Debt Service Cover ratio:  Net profit (after tax) before
interest and noncash items plus loan collection over BPMB's loan repayment
obligations (principal + interest).
/e  Definition of Interest Service Cover Ratio: Net profit (after tax) before
interest and noncash items plus collection of interest over 5UFIB's
interest payment obligations.
/f  BPMB has not paid any dividends.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1983



- 67-                                       ANNEX 6
Table I
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pesbangunan Malaysia Berhad
Portfolio Status (Arrears. Reschedulins. Wrlite-offs) 1980-83
(HS 000)
1980        1981         1982         1983
A. Loan Portfolio in Arrears /a
Total loans outstanding                   110,630      170,501      249,402      334,168
Arrears
Principal in arrears                    4,614        7,605       26,297      23,703
Interest in arrears                     1,606        7,032       7,200       10,672
Total Arrears                           6.220/b    14.637/b    33,497        34.375
(As Z of total loans                      5.6          8.6         13.4        10.3
outstanding)
Principal affected by arrears            n.a.         n.a.      67,399       64.519
(as 2 of total principal               n.a.         n.a.        27.0         19.3
outstanding)
Loan Reschedulings
Principal amount rescheduled            1 569          326          498       2.862
(of which due at the time of          tn-)         (n.a.)      (n.&.)       tn.-.)
rescheduling
(Reschedulings as Z of                    1.4          0.2         0.2          0.9
outstanding portfolio)
Amounts Yritten-off /c                          0            0            0            0
B. Collectlon Perforrmnce
Collection rate (Z) /d                   85.2        77.7          60.5        54.5
C. Guarantee Portfolio In Arrear /e
Total guarantees outatandings          38,686       47,927      33,535       84,048
Arrears
Principal                                n.a.         n.4.         13.0        63.0
Fees                                     n.a.         n.a.            -           -
Total Arrears                            n.a.         n.-.         13.0        63.0
(as Z of total guarantees                n.a.         n.a.          0.0         0.1
outstandings)
Outstandlng Guarantees Affected
bvy Arrears                              n.a.         n.a.         20.0        70.0
(as% Zof guarantee portfolio)            n.a.         n.a.         0.0          0.1
/a   Including leasing.
7br  Arrears in 1980 and 1981 also include arrears of less than three months.  They could
not be eliminated, since an age structure for these years was not available. Arrears
in 1982 and 1983 of less than three months are shown in Table 2 of the same Annax.
/c   No vrite-offs yet, except in 1979 (MS33,733) since all critical projects are still
under foreclosure.
/d   Definition of collection rate:  arrears at end of previous year plus amount due for
collection durlng current year into amounts actually collected during current year.
/e   Invoked guarantees are transferred to loans outstandLng and in arrears.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



- 68-                                            ANNEX 6
Table 2
MALAYSIA
SrALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Wlaysia Berhad
Age Structure of Loan Arrears. /a 1982-83
(XS00O)
198:                                      1983
Amount in arrears /b PortfolLo affected Amount In arrears /b Portfolio affected
No.      Amount      No.        mount     No.       Amount       No.      Arount
Age Structure of Loan Arrears
Less than 3 months              495      5339/c    495        65.371     433       21 l545/c   433       60.181
3-6 months                       55       4.727        55       8.805     251        3,675     251        12.665
6-12 months and                 120      28.770       120      58,594     252       30.700     252        51.845
12 montbs and above
Subtotal                     175      33 497      175       67.399     503       33.675     503       64.510
Total                        670      38.836      670      132.770     936       55.920     936        124 700
/a   Including leasing and foreclosed accounts of H$21.6 millon.
ib   Principal and interest.
Ic   Including KS2,318,000 and $3.266,000 lnterest in arrears in 1982 and 1983 respectively.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



ANNEX 6
Table 3
- 69 -
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Arrears /a by Type of Financing as of December 31. 1983
(N '000)
Arrears on                   Arrears on
foreclosed                     active
accounts                     accounts                      Total
Type of         Inter-  Prin-    Subtotal   Inter-  Prim-    Subtotal        arrears
financing         est    cipal  No. Amount   est    cipal  No. Amount  No. Amount
Term loans       3,495  18,400   84  21,895  6,818  10,479  428  17,297  512  39,192
Working capital    688   2,559   39   3,247  1,846   5,759  207   7,605  246  10,852
loans
Venture capital      31     183    5     214      42      41   66       83   71     297
loans
Share financing     74      120    3     194    479   2,691   59   3,163   62   3,357
Leasing              5      309    3     314    253   1,655   41   1,908   44   2,222
Total       4.293  21,571  134  25.864  9,437  20.619  801  30x056  935  55.920
/a  Including accounts in arrears (principal and interest) for less than 3 months.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



ANNEX 7
- 70 -
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Resource Position as of December 31, 1983
(Ms$'000)
Amount
Long-Term Resources
Paid-in capital                                                      64,389
Unappropriated profit                                                22,014
Provision for doubtful accounts                                       7,327
Depreciation /a and other noncash items                               1,695
Term loans from government                                          322,105
Total Term Resources                                             417,530
Less:  Term loans outstanding                                         304,175
Equity investments                                              43,272
Other fixed assets                                              13,775
Amount available for disbursement                               56.308
less:  Undisbursed commitments                                        103,000/b
Resource available for commitment                              (46,692)
Less:  Uncommitted approvals
Resources Available for Approval                               (46,692)
/a Excluding plant hire equipment depreciation which will be used for
equipment repurchase.
/b Reconciled by BPMP's Accounting Department on the basis of undisbursed
commitments less cancellations as determined by the Banking Departments.
There may be further cancellations in the future.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



- 71 -                              ANNEX 8
Table 1
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Projected Summary of Operations, 1983-88
(M$ million)
Actual                  Projected
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987       1988
Apgrovals
Loans and leasing                    }11200  110.00  127.00  162.00    202.00
SSE loans                   } 90.00 1          40.00   50.00   60.00      70.00
EDP loans                   }           9.00   12.00   15.00   20.00      20.00
Subtotal                   90.00  121.00  162.00  202.00  242.00    292.00
Share financing                7.30    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00        4.00
Venture capital financing      4.00    5.00    5.00    5.00    5.00        5.00
investments                    8.00   10.00    5.00    5.00    5.00        5.00
Guarantees /a                  4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00        4.00
Subtotal                   23.00   23.00   18.00   18.00   18.00       18.00
Plant hire scheme              n.a.    8.00   10.00   10.00   10.00       10.00
Nursery factory scheme         n.a.   12.00    6.00    6.00    6.00        6.00
Subtotal                    n.a.   20.00   16.00   16.00   16.00       16.00
Total Approvals           113.00  164.00  196.00  236.00  276.00    326.00
Disbursements /b               148.39  148.20  206.80  204.00  244.00    290.00
Repayments                      55.06   27.95   43.72  671.48   88.60    112.05
Total Outstanding /c           334.17  438.43  604.51  736.03  886.43  1,059.38
Investments /d                  43.27   49.27   56.27   61.27   66.27       71.27
Total Outstanding         377.44  497.70  660.78  797.30  952.70  1,130.65
/a  Excluding guarantees to subsidiary and associated companies.
7E  Including disbursement of previous years' commitments.
7TE Excluding plant hire and nursery factory schemes which are contained in
fixed assets.
/d  Including investments in subsidiary and associated companies.
A2P Projects Department
January 31, 1984



- 72-                                ANNEX 8
Table 2
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Projected Summarized Income Statements for the Years Ended
December 31. 1984-88
(HS '000)
Actual                ProJected
1983    1984   1985   1986   1987    1988
Income
Interest Income                    25.65  43.20  57.96  69.70   83.53  100.04
Loans to subsidiaries                2.19    -      -       -       -     -
Fixed deposits                      4.79   2.78   2.78   2.78    2.78    2.78
Other Income
Investments                       2.26   3.94   4.50   4.90    5.30    5.70
Venture capital scheme             -      0.15   0.40   0.64    0.84    1.01
Share financing scheme             -      0.26   0.70   1.12    1.48    1.77
Nursery factories (rentals)        -       -     0.36   0.54    0.72    0.90
Plant hire scheme                  -      2.56   5.76   8.96   12.16   15.36
Insurance brokerage/commis-
sion and underwriting fees       -      0.10   0.10   0.10    0.10    0.10
Guarantee fees                     -      0.04   0.10   0.15    0.20    0.24
Short-term advances                -      4.14   4.14   4.14    4.14    4.14
Other Income                      0.87   1.00   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00
Total Income                    35.76  58.17  77.80  94.03  112.25  133.04
Expense
Financial expense                   8.04  17.71  27.38  37.68   47.19   56.72
General and Administrative
Expense
Personnel cost                    7.06   8.71   8.95   9.36   10.36   11.21
Rent                              1.11   1.28   1.47   1.69    1.94    2.23
Others                            3.58   4.39   5.29   5.91    6.37    6.95
Subtotal                        19.79  32.09  43.09  54.64   65.86   77.11
Depreciation                         -      3.35   7.36  11.10   14.74   16.01
Provision for doubtful accounts    1.09   1.64   3.12   2.63    3.01    3.46
Subtotal                         1.09   4.99  10.48  18.73   17.75   19.47
Total Expense                   20.88  37.08  53.57  68.37   83.61   96.58
Income Before Tax               14.88  21.09  24.23  25.66   28.64   36.46
Less taxation (40Z)                  5.90   8.80   9.84  10.36   11.54   14.65
Net Income                       8.98  12.29  14.39  15.30   17.10   21.81
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



- 73 -
MALAYSIA
SHALL-SCALE NTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pe-banzunan Nolaysia Jerhad
Pro1ected Sumariztd Salance Sheets for the Years Zndd
uecember IT, 1846-88
( MS lid0)
Actual                       Pro ected
rur-   IY'        1Ywx ISD5  1sn      LSoU       LVRB
Assets
Current Assets
Cash end b-nk balances                             0.12      0.25     0.25      0.25       0.25       0.25
Fixed deposits                                    51.27    36.48    33.33    95.24       136.19     160.99
Receivables from:
Associate coepanles                              29.99    29.99    29.99    29.99       29.99      29.99
Subsidiary companies                              -         -        -        -           -          -
Loans to aasocatce/aubsLdiary companies             2.66      -        -         -          -          -
Tern loans due within one year
Normal loans                                    53.27    86.74   108.64   112.03       126.12      134.28
SSE loans                                         -         -        -       10.13      13.67      34.24
EDP loans                                          -        -       1.50      3.86       6.90        1.30
Share financlng                                   -         -       0.67      1.49       2.35       3.07
Venture capital ftnancing                          -        -       0.83      1.87       2.93       3.84
Converted guarantees                              -         -       0.67      1.49       2.35       3.07
Provisaon for doubtful accounts                    (7.33)   (8.97)  (12.09)  (14.72)    (17.73)    (21.19)
Sundry debtors and prepayments                    29.00    29.00    29.00    29.00        29.00      29.00
Total Current Assets                            158.98   173.49   192.79   270.60      332.02     378.84
7dIiu_ -*nolo.-Cerm loans
Norm_l loans                                    233.45   303.69   390.07   433.83      507.35     586.45
SSE loan.                                         -         -      24.00    62.76      105.15     145.29
EDP loans                                         -        5.40    14.70    25.60       38.76      60.66
Share financing                                            2.40     5.73     8.67       11.09      13.04
Venture capital financing                         -        3.00     7.17    10.83       13.87       16.30
Guarantees                                        -        2.40     5.73      8.67      11.09      13.04
Ainunt due from subsidIary and associate
coWanLes                                         14.80    14.80    14.80    14.80       14.80       14.80
Subtotal                                       248.25   331.69   462.20   575.16       702.11     849.58
Investment In subsidiary and associate
Comanies                                          -         -        -         -          -          -
Other investments                                 43.27    49.27    56.27    61.27        66.27      71.27
Subtotal                                        43.27   582.17   754.72   958.39   1.156.02   1,358.30
Fixed Assets                                         13.77    27.72    43.45    51.36       55.62      58.61
Total Long-Term and Fixed Asets                 305.29   408.68   561.92   687.79      824.00     979.46
Total Assets                                   464.27   582.17   754.72   958.39   1,156.02   1.358.30
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
Current Liabilities
Deposits                                          38.17    38.17    30.00    30.00        30.00      30.00
Short-term borrowings                               -         -        -        -           -          -
Rank overdraft                                     3.02      3.02     3.02     3.02        3.02       3.02
Short-term portion of term loans
Government loan.                                  3.03     6.61     6.61    16.61       26.61      82.61
Private loans                                     -         -      10.00    20.00       31.67      31.67
World Bank Loan                                   -         -        -         -         0.67       0.67
Other loans                                       -         -        -        -           -          -
Payables                                           10.64    10.64    10.64    10.64       10.64      10.64
Accruals                                           0.90      0.90     0.90     0.90        0.90       0.90
Total Current Liabilities                        55.76    59.34    61.17    81.17      103.51     159.51
Term Debts
Goverunent loan.                                  322.11   364.14   454.47   552.84      648.70     996.84
World Bank loan.                                    -         -      16.00    36.00       60.00      88.00
Private loan.                                       -       60.00   110.00   160.00      198.33     246.66
Other loans                                          -        -        -         -            
Total Term Debts                                322.11   424.14   580.47   748.84      907.03   1.031.50
Sh reholdere' oultc
P-id-tn c    2 pSt-l64.39    64.39   6U.39    6A.39                                       64.39      64.39
UndistrLbwted profits                             22.01    34.30    48.69    63.99        81.09     102.90
Total Shareholders' Equitt                      86.40    98.69   113.08   128.38       145.48     167.29
Total Liabilicies and Sharehold re' Jquity    664.27   582.17   754.72   958.39   1.156.02   1.358.30
ASP Projects Department
January 31. 1984



- 74 -                              ANNEX 8
Table 4
MALAYSTA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
Projected Cash Flown. 1984-88
(MS '000)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Sources of Funds
Income before corporate income tax      21.99   24.60   25.91   28.85   36.62
Add back noncash charges (deprecia-
tion, provision, etc.)                 4.09   10.11   13.48   17.54   19.31
Capitalized interest (adjustment)         1.21    2.95    4.98    7.14    9.43
Increase in deposits                      -        -       -        -       -
Breakdown of borrowings
Government                            49.00   94.00  110.00  116.00  122.00
Private                               60.00   60.00   70.00   70.00   80.00
World Bank                              -      16.00   20.00   24.00   28.00
Loan collection                          27.95   43.72   67.48   88.60  112.05
Total Sources of Funds               164.25  251.37  311.85  352.15  407.40
Application of Funds
Disbursements
Investment loans                     134.40  186.80  186.00  226.00  272.00
Share financing                        2.40    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00
Investments                            6.00    7.00    5.00    5.00    5.00
Venture capital iinancing               3.00    5.00    5.00    5.00    5.00
Other                                   2.40    4.00    4.00    4.00    4.00
Repayments
Government loans                        4.61    6.61    6.61   16.61   26.61
Private loans                           -        -     10.00   20.00   31.67
World Bank loans                                 -       -        -      0.67
Other loans/deposits                    -       8.17     -       -        -
Increase in fixed assets                 17.30   23.10   19.00   19.00   19.00
Of which:  Plant hire purchase         8.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00
Nursery factory scheme      4.80    9.60    6.00    6.00    6.00
Payment of corporate income tax           8.80    9.84   10.36   11.54   14.65
Dividends                                  -       -        -       -        -
Other                                     _        _
Total Application of Funds          178.91  254.52  249.97  311.15  382.60
Cash Flow Surplus/(Deficit)          15.34   (3.15)  61.88   40.98   24.80
Opening cash balance                       51.39   36.73   33.58   95.46  136.44
Closing cash balance                       36.73   33.58   95.46  136.4   161.24
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



- 75-ANNEX A
Table 5
MALAYSIA
SKALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pesbangunan Malaysia Berhad
Projected Financial Ind cators  1984-88
(MS mllllon)
Actual                    Projected
1983    1984    1985    1986       1987      1988
General
Tot-l assets                         464.27  582.17  754.72  958.39  1,156.02  1,358.30
Loan portfollo
Short-term loans /a                85.92  116.73  142.30  160.86    184.31    209.79
Long-term loans                    248.25  331.69  462.20  575.16    702.11    849.58
Subtotal                          334.17  448.42  604.50  736.02    886.42  1.059.37
Investment                            43.27   49.27   56.27   61.27       66.27      71.27
Total Portfolio                   377.44  497.69  660.77  797.29    952.69  1.130.64
Short-term resources                  38.17   38.17   30.00   30.00       30.00      30.00
Long-term resources                  322.11  480.75  597.08  785.45    965.98  1,146.45
Equity                                86.40   98.69  113.08  128.38    145.48    167.29
Net proflt                             8.97   12.29   14.39   15.30       17.10      21.81
As Z of Total Average Assets
,roce  Incoue                          8.5    11.1    11.6    11.0        10.6       10.6
Resource cost /b                       1.9     3.4      4.1     4.4        4.5        4.5
Average spreaadrC                      6.6     7.7      7.5     6.6        6.1        6.1
Administrative expenses                2.7     2.7      2.4     2.0        1.8        1.6
Depreclation                           0.1     0.3      0.4     0.5        0.5        0.5
Provllon for doubtful accounts        0.3     0.3      0.5     0.3        0.3        0.3
Gross profit                           3.5     4.0      3.6     3.0        2.7        2.9
Corporate Lncome tax                   1.4     1.7      1.5     1.2        1.1        1.2
Net profit                             2.1     2.3      2.2     1.8        1.6        1.7
Income fro- term Loans                 6.6     8.3      8.7     8.1        7.9       8.0
Cost of term resources                 1.9     3.4      4.1     4.4        4.5       4.5
Net Proflt as Z of Total Averase
met worth                             15.0    13.4    13.6    12.7        1: 5       13.9
Other Ratio.
rrovisron as 2 of total portfolio    1.9       1.8      1.9     1.9        1.9        1.9
Current ratio                          2.9     2.9      3.2     3.3        3.2        2.4
Long-term debt/equity ratio            4.7     5.2      6.0     6.8        7.2        7.4
Long-term debt/equity ratio            4.9     5.3      6.1     6.8        7.3        7.4
(consolidated)
Total debt/equity ratlo                5.2     5.6      6.3     7.0        7.4        7.5
Total debt/equity ratio                5.4     5.7      6.4     7.1        7.5        7.6
(consolidated)
Interest services cover /d ratio    13.2    20.7    18.7    26.3          20.5       18.1
(tines)
Debt service cover /e ratio            5.0     7.6      7.9    10.1        4.9        3.7
(times)
Book value per share (MS)              1.34    1.53    1.76    2.00        2.26       2.60
Dividend payout ratio /f               nil     nil      nil     nll        nil        nil
/a  Includlng term loan portion due within 12 months.
7; Resource cost comprlses financial expenses for both short-term and long-term
resources.
/c  Average spread:  Groae income less resource cost.
7Td  Definition of interest Service Cover Ratio:  Net profit (after tax) before interest
and noncash items plus collection of Interest over SPHB's interest payment obli-
gations.
/e  Definition of Debt Service Cover Ratio:  Net profit (after tax) before interest and
noncaah Items plus loan collection over BPiB's loan repayment obligations (prlnci-
pal . Interest).
/f BiKE has not paid any dividends.
AEP Projects Department
January 31, 1984



- 76-                           ANN-  9
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
SlMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Mlalaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (MIDF)
Statement of Policies and Guidelines
(a)  MIDF is an investment institution designed to assist in the
promotion and expansion of industry in Malaysia. In order to
accomplish this purpose, it will pursue an active policy to promote,
finance and otherwise assist industry.
(b)  MIDF will invest in both private and public sector industrial
enterprises in Malaysia which are expected to make a contrlbution to
the economic development of MAlaysia.
(c)  2{[DF will make its investment decision oaly on the basis of sound
investment principles and standards. Subject thereto, it will
select projects on as broad a geographical basis as possible.
(d)  MIDF will diversify its financing facilities (except for temporary
investment of liquid funds in short-term securities) among different
types of industries and different types of financing.
(e) Although, in accordance with normal business practice, MIDF will
obtain adequate security to protect its loans, its decisions to
invest will be based on its judgment regarding the prospective
profitability of its clients' enterprises.
Cf)   ID?F will provide ics clients with financial facilities in any form
it considers appropriate to their needs, and in its own interest.
It will give particular attention to its clients' needs for equity
financing and to the extent consistent with sound financial practice
will provide such equity within the following percentage limitations
as provided under (g).
(g)  It will normally not commit to any enterprise:
(i) in the form of equity an amount greater than 10%;
(ii) in whatever form an amount greater than 15%;
of the total of its paid-in share capital, the subordinated
Government loan and the reserves.
(h) MIDF will refrain from seeking in any enterprise (other than one
which in actuality although not technically is a branch or
department of MIDF) a controlling interest or any other interest
which would give it the primary responsibility for the management of
that enterprise, and to this end it will not (save as aforesaid)
seek to own more than 25% of the common or ordinary shares of any



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
single enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, in
any case of jeopardy, 1IDF may take such action as it thinks fit to
protect its investment.
(i) The total amount of its equity investments at cost will not exceed
the amount of its paid-in share capital and reserves.
(j) KIDF will conduct its operations in such a manner as to foster the
growth of a capital market in Malaysia, and improve the facilities
for marketing shares and securities. It will revolve its own
portfolio whenever it can sell on satisfactory terms. In selling
any investment it will pay due regard not only to its own interests
but also to those of other participants in such investments, and to
those of the other investors in the enterprise in which it has
invested.
(k) 'MIDF will finance undertakings which are soundly managed and which,
after careful economic, financial and engineering investigations
appear to be economically and financially viable. Thereafter it
will carefully watch over the conduct of the enterprise it has
financed, and it will promptly make available to them constructive
and remedial advice whenever requisite.
(1) It will maintain an effective organization and develop an adequate
staff possessing skill in finance, marketing and economic analysis,
engineering, accounting and law.
(m) MIDF will continue its special program to assist smll-scale
enterprises.
(n) MIDF will build up reserves consistent with sound financial
practice, including reserves for bad debts and other losses on
investments provided that at any time, the reserves shall not fall
below the subordinated Government loan then outstanding.
(o) MIDF will transfer the risk of foreign exchange fluctuation on any
external borrowings which it must repay in foreign exchange, except
that in the case of small loan operations it may refrain from
transferring such risk provided that it finds other suitable ways to
make provision for such risk.
(p) The Board of Directors will prevent any one person or company or any
group of affiliated persons or companies from gaining control of
MIDF.



- 78 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
Guidelines to Statement of Policies
I.   Policy (e).  In obtaining adquate security to protect its loans,
IEDF normally will take as security the fixed assets financed but it
may:
(i) in exceptional cases consider a second fixed charge;
(ii) in deserving cases where the financing did not exceed 50% of
the fixed assets cost, share the security with short-term
lenders providing working capital facilities;
(iii) for temporary purposes, accept securities such as bank or
corporate guarantee or other tangible securities;
(iv) in deserving cases where the financing is less than 70% of
fixed assets cost of project, accept Letters of Awareness or
Comfort in lieu of shareholders' or directors' guarantees;
{v) in very exceptional cases only, accept negative pledge.
II.   Policy (f) shall be guided by the following:
IMDF will normally not commit to any single enterprise project loans
greater than 70Z of the fixed assets cost of project or not more
than $20.0 million, whichever is lower, and where:
i) the long-term debt to equity ratio is higher than 2:1;
(ii) the total debt to equity ratio is higher than 3:1.
III.   Policy (h) shall be guided by the following:
IIDF will provide equity participation consistent with sound
financial practices to projects developed and promoted by the
Company and to Bumiputra enterprises, provided that the total
exposure in any single enterprise by way of loans and equity should
not exceed 50Z of the total project cost of the enterprise and 25X
of the paid-up capital of the enterprise respectively.
IV.   Policy (n) shall be guided by the following:
Consistent with sound financial practice, MIDF will make specific
provisions for doubtful debts based on estimates of possible losses
that may arise from non-collection of certain identified accounts
and a general provision calculated at a pre-determined percentage of
all other loan accounts outstanding at the end of each financial
year. In addition, HIDF will suspend the interest in respect of
loans with arrears in excess of a specified period and where
recovery is doubtful.
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



- 79 -                                             ANNEX 10
Tablc 1
MALAYSIA
SHALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industrial Development Flnance Bhd. (MIDF)
Summary of Operations. FYSO-84
(N$'OOO)
Years ended March 31                      FY80             Y81           FY82            FY83           FY84 /b
No.   Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount  No.   Amount   go.   Amount
Loan Approvals
Loans
Fixed assets                     199  116,218   214  175,045   204  187,995   198  140,944   121   97,604
Working capital                    4       235     1        70     -       115     -        -      -        -
Leasing                            -         -     -         -     -         -     -        -    67   11,652
Subtotal                       203  116,453   215  175.115   204  188.110   198  140.944   188  109.256
Cancellations /a                    37    8,526    35   29,210    49   42,332    46   63,152    33   33,443
Total Loan Approvals (let)    166  107.927   180  145,905   155  145,778   152   77,792   155   75.813
Other Approvals
Share financing                       1      100     1    3,200      -         -     -        -      -        -
Venture capital financing             5    1,531     3       650     2    1.660      -        -      -        -
Subtotal                         6    1,631      4    3,850      2    1.660      -
Guarantees                           -         -     -         -     -         -
Total Net Approvals            172  109.558   184  149.755   157  147,438   152   77.792   155   75.813
Disbursements
Fixed asseE:                         -   68,266      -   77,358      -  124,781      -  14,705       -   71,808
-orklng capital                      -         -     -         -     -         -     -        -      -        -
Leasing                              -         -     -         -     -         -     -        -      -    2,9!7
Other              
Total Disbursements              -   68266           77,358      -  124.781      -  144,705          74,785
Repayment
Fixed assets                         -   52,634      -   55,409      -   51,616      -   61,685     -   47,343
Working capItal                      -                         -          -           -          -            -
Leasing                              -         -     -         -     -         -     -        -      -      167
other                                 -        -               -               -               -  
Total Repayment                       52,634         55.409      -   51.616      -   61.685          47,510
Total Outstanding
Fixed assets                         -  235,093      -  252,209      -  327,102      -  408,381      -  430,169
working capital                      -         --                                     -           -           -
Leasing                                        -               -              -                      -    2,825
Other                                -   28,624      -   29,088      -   21,151      -   26,787      -   27,316
Total Outscanding                -  262.717      -  281.297      -  348,253      -  435,168      -  460.310
/a  Inclusive of projects approved in previous years.
lb Disbursement, repayment and outstanding data jor FY84 are as of December 31, 1983.
AEP Projects Department
April 30. 1984



- 80-
ANNX 10
Table 2
MALAYSIA
SKALL-SCAL!   IERPRISE PROJECT
Iblaysian Industrial Developent Finance 3Bd. (HIDW)
airacteristics of Loan Camw ents for IPY0-83 and FIS?. (Vine Months)
and Otcatanding as of Decmber 31. 1983
(IISOOO)
Characteristics of Loan Coamltments                     Outstanding
Years ended 4arch 31                   nso             8            182          n83         18  (12/3i)    (12131/83)
o.  AoAmou nt                 .- Amount No   Amount   No. Anount    So.  Amount
ILY Purose
FlIed asset loans                162  107,717  179  145,035  155  145,663  152   77,792   32    5,298     832  429,528
;brklng capital loamu              4      210    1       70    -      115                           - -    -  -  4  641
Otbers (leases)                    -                                                      25    3,686      27   2,824
Others (subsidiary companies)      -                                                       -        -       5   27,317
Total                        166  107,927  180  145,905  155  145,778  152   77J792   57    8.976    868  460,310
By Size
Up to 50,000                      32    1,138   39    1,282   37    1,225   37    1.309   18      610     218    5.159
50.001 -   100.000               36    2.828   27    2.148   20    1.555   23    1.892    7      386     133    7.079
100.001 -   250.000              12   7,715   52    9,382   38   6.640   34   6.545   11    1,823         210   26.848
251.001 -  500,000                22    8,770   24    7,991   25   9.896   13   3,236   11   3,672        106   24.355
50000  - I00.0,W0                  7   5.280    2    1,600    5   4,051  25   19.394   10   2,485          58   3,61.8
Above 1,000,000                   27   82,196   36  123,502   30  122,411  20   4541.6   -          -     143  362,221
Total                        166  107,927  180  145.905  155  145,778  152  77.792   57    9,976    868 160 310
By Sector
Logging                            -        -    -        -
s ing and quarrying                -        -    2    4,391    4    5,100   (2)  (3,800)  -         -       5    5,616
Food, beverage. tobacco           22  27.970   22  52,746   30  1.3,002  21  (14.186)   7        (551)    175  104.536
lextiles, clothing                13    5.031   17    1,648   13  11,.491   16    1.607    4     (677)     70   36.824
Leather products                   2      396   -        -    -         -    -        -    1       13       2       32
'bod and  ood products            31  23.742  21    9,781    8   8.277    9    7.045    6   (2.531.)    97   47.253
Paper and printing                20   12,657  22    6,081   23   2,479   18   3.889    3   4.575          90   16.915
Chemical products                  8    1,895    6   10,570    3      940    7   14,433    1      750      23   14,827
Rubber products                    8   13.402   14    7,496    7   15,051    8      298    7    1,733      53   38.915
Plastic products                 11.   4,134   17   2,738   17  15,705   19    8.053    4        (828)    83   22,204
Nonmetal'tic  ineral products      5    1.235    7   10.560    8   18,400   11  20.351    4    3.278       43   40.758
ektal and engineeriag             39  16,082   41   31,385   37   24,654   37   37.195   17    2.274      176   89,027
tiscellanxwus manufacturing        4      678    4    4,928    5      679    7    2,907    1       43      14    7.060
tnscellaneous nounsaufacturing     -      705    7    3,575    -        -   -         -    1      900      32   9,026
Others (subs'diary -rpanies)      -        -   -          -    -                                    -       5   27.317
Total                        166  107,927  18O  1450905  155  145,778  152   77,792   57   8.976      868  460,310
Nv -Type                                  3864         7288      3                                  81
New project                       47   43,896   48   72,828   43   72.023   38  43,780   11   4.871       271  188.291
Existing project                 119   64,031  132  73,077  112  73,755  114   34,012   46    3,905       597  272.019
lotal                       166   0        180  115,905  155  145.778  152   77.792   57    8.976     868  460.310
By Location (Srate)
Selangor                          60   30,743   46   28,191   33  31,732   40   34,773  7.   6,895        243  166,071
PeraL                             17    2,258   27   16,731   22  26,388   20    1.332    4    1.579      116  64,420
Jobore                           11.  17,131  18  28,425    7   6,405   18   13,164    7    3,563          80   54,368
Penang                            21   18,980  21   15,507   20  22,640   22   10,941    5   (L.096)    91   60,404
Trengganu                          5    2,656   10   15,125    9   15,516   (2)  (3,073)   1       17      35  22,889
Peh-aag                            1   2,254   13  23.405    9   12,901    1    3,350    -   (5.650)    41   16,048
Sabah                             12   15,713   10    (635)  13   2,653    9    ;,125    7    1,160        68   23,758
Sarawak                           20    2,625   14    1,3514  25    1,788   26    6,322    5    1,688      95    8,564
Xalacca                            4    2,763    1    4,411    2    6,310    1   (1.722)   -        -      13   1.,984
Kedah                              2   6.356    3    3,700    7   17,570    4    1,314    1       270      35  19.428
Negert Sembilan                    1    1,000    3   5,690    2       750    7   10,020    2      665      11   14,509
Kelantan                           8    5,404   11   4,231    6    1,124    6       246    2     (115)     39    4,859
Perlis                             1       44   -        -    -         -   -         -             -       1        8
-.otl                        166  107,927  180 I.5905  155  1&5.778  152  77,792   57   8.976        868  460.310
A!? Projects Departent
April 30. 1984



ANNEX 11
- 81-                             Table 1
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (MIDF)
Summarized Balance Sheets, March 31, 1980-83 and December 31. 1983
(Ms 000)
FY80     FY81      FY82     FY83      FY84
(12/31)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and bank balances           1,928    1,475    3,377    1,127    6,418
Fixed deposits                  11,000   15,000   45,010    9,398    9,864
Receivables from subsidiary
companies                        924       838    1,151    1,173    1,702
Term loans due within one
year                          75,897   82,949   94,468  102,095  107,542
Provisions for doubtful
accounts                      (6,655)  (2,276)  (4,236)  (2,815)  (4,728)
Subtotal                      83,09e   97.986  139,770  110,978  120,798
Accruals                         5,783    5,725    6,886    9,772   11,226
Sundry debtors and prepay-
ments                          3,824   11,750    5,347    6,410    6,014
Total Current Assets          92.701  115,461  152,003  127,160  138.038
FIxed Assets
Medium-/long-term loans        159,196  169,260  232,634  306,286  322,627
Lease receivables                    -         -         -        -    2,824
Provisions for doubtful
accounts                      (3,156)  (3,627)  (4,458)  (8,096)  (8,217)
Amounts due from subsidiary
companies                     27,700   28,250   20,000   25,614   25,614
Subtotal                     183,740  193,883  248.176  323,804  342,848
Investment in subsidiary
companies                     28,314   28,314   36,564   17,904   19,743
Other investments                9,614    6,404    2,670    1,398    2,028
Subtotal                      37.928   34.718   39.234   19A302   21,771
Other flxed assets              13,518   12,753   11,945   11,111   10,367
Total Fixed Assets           235,186  241.354  299.355  354.217  374,986
Total Assets                 327,887  356.815  451,358  481,377  513.024



ANNEX 11
-82-                       Table 1
Page 2 of 2
FY80     FY81     FY82     FY83      FY84
(12/31)
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Bank overdrafts                 3,223    2,955         -    3,455        13
Short-term portion of term
loans                        43,295   15,282   35,072  144,284  130,061
Payables                         3,583    3,583    3,823    4,780    4,900
Accruals and other creditors    3,559    4,498    8,524    4,661    7,585
Other (provision for taxa-
tion)                         9,293   17,945   23,604   27,445   19,344
Total Current Liabilities    62,953   44,263   71,023  184,625  161,903
Term Debts
Loans from government          90,467   77,924   64,703   50,759   36,042
Other                          48,170   96,327  166,591   51,247  111,126
Total Term Debts            138,637  174,251  231,294  102,006  147,168
Provisions for staff retirement   1,298    1,907    2,035    2,298    2,422
Total Liabilities           202,888  220,421  304,352  288,929  311,493
Equity
Paid-in capital                  79,625   79,631   79,640   79,673   79,673
Undistributed profits            45,374   56,763   67,366  112,775  121,858
Total Equity                124,999  136,394  147,006  192,448  201,531
Total Liabilities and
Shareholders' Equity      327,887  356,815  451,358  481,377  5132024
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



ANNEX 11
-83 -                              Table 2
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
MIlaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (?aDF)
Summarized Income Statements for the Years Ended
March 31, 1980-83 and December 31, 1983
(MIS 00Q)
FY80     FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
(12/31)
Income
Interest on loans to industries       22,529   23,533  25,990  36,861  33,764
Interest on loans to subsidiaries      1,648    1,336   1,367   1,370   1,452
Interest on fixed deposits             1,938       761   2,399   2,592   1,562
Income on investments                  2,059    2,219   2,066   2,254   1,880
Other income /a                        4,453   20,338  20,372  49,617   2,593
Total Income                      32,627   48,187  52,194  92,694  41,251
Expenses
Financial expense                     11,454   11,228  12,991  18,304  16,100
General and administrative expense
Personnel                            3,616    5,049   5,489   5,776   3,806
Rent                                    125      150     164      194     165
Other                                1,613    1,901   2,150   1,905   1,586
Provisions for doubtful accounts          887    1,233   3,041   4,206   2,035
Other                                  1,288       931   1,495   1,138      801
Total Expenses                    18,983   20,492  25,330  31,523  24,493
Income Before Tax                 13,644   27,695  26,864  61,171  16,758
Less:  Taxation                          (6,292)  :2,723  12,439  10,985   7,676
Net Income                         7,352   14,972  14,425  50,186   9,082
/a Including profits on sales of
investments of:                    2,059   16,984  16,541  45,773         -
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984'.



- 84-                                  AN lEX 11
Table 3
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (N1DF)
Financial Indicators, fY8O-83 and FY84 (Nine Montbs)
Year ended March 31                       FY80      FY81      FY82      FY83    FY84
General
Total assets /a                       327,887  356,790  451,358  481,370  513,024
Loan portfolio
Term loans                          159,196  169,260  232,634  306,286  322,627
Current portion of term loans        75,897   82,949   94,468  102,095  107,542
Subtotal                         235.a93  252 L209  327 10i  408,381  340,169
Leases                                       -         -        -         -    2.825
Investments                            37,928   34,718   39,234   19,302   21,771
Total Portfolio                  273I 021  286.927  366,046  427,328  454.765
Term resources                         138,560  163,782  231,264  102.006   97,168
Current portion of term resources    43,372   25,751   35,102  144,284  130,061
Equity                                124,999  136,394  147,006  192,448  201.531
Net profit                              7,352   14.972   14,425   50,186    9,082
As Z of Total Average Assets
Income from lending                        7.3      7.3       6.8       8.2      7.1
Other income                               2.5      6.8       6.1      11.7       1.2
Cross income                               9.8      14.1     12.9      19.9       8.3
Resource cost lb                           3.4      3.3       3.2       3.9       3.2
Average lending spread                     3.8      4.0       3.6       4.3       3.8
Average spread /c                          6.4      10.8      9.7      16.0       5.l
Adulnistrative expenses                    2.0      2.3       2.3       1.9       1.3
Provision for doubtful accounts            0.3      0.9       0.8       0.9      0.4
Cross profit                               4.1      8.1       6.6      13.1       3.4
Gorporate income tax                       1.9      3.7       3.1       2.4       1.5
Yet profit                                 2.2      4.4       3.6      10.8       1.8
Net Profit aS Z of Total                     6.0      11.5     10.2      29.6       4.6
Average Net Worth
Other Rateos
Provision as 1 of total portfolio          3.6      2.1       2.4       2.6      2.8
Current Ratio                              1.5      2.6       2.1       0.7      0.9
Long-term debt/equity ratio                1.5       1.4      1.8       1.3       1.4
Long-term debt/equi:ty ratio
(consolidated)                           1.0      1.0       1.5       1.1      n.a
Total debt/equity ratio                    1.6       1.6      2.1       1.5       1.6
Total debt/equity ratio
(consolidated)                           1.5      1.4       2.7      2.6       n.a
Debt service cover ratio (times)/d         2.2       1.5      3.0       4.1      0.9
Interest service cover                     1.9      2.6       2.5       4.0      3.9
ratio (times) /e
Book value per share (in MS)              1.57     1.72      1.84      2.42     2.53
Dividend payout ratio                     81.2     39.9      44.2      15.9         -
/a  Including trade debtors.
7; Resource cost comprise financial expenses _or both short-term and long-term
resources.
/c  Average spread:  Gross income less Resource cost.
Wd_ Definition of Debt Service Cover ratio: Net profit (after tax) before interest
and noncash items plus loan principal collection over loan repayment obligations
(principal + interest).
/e  Definition of Interest Service Cover Ratio:  Net profit (after tax) before inte-
rest and noncash items incerest payment obligations.
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



-85 -                               ANNME 12
Table 1
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
talaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (IEDF)
Portfolio Status (Arrears, Reschedulings, Write-Offs),
FYBI-83 and FY84 (Nine S'bnths)
(M$0oou)
Years ended March 31                         FY81       FY82      FY83       FY84
(12/31)
A. Loan Portfolio in Arrears
Total loans outstanding              261,585   326,790   415,446   443,251
Arrears
Principal in arrears                  10,457    13,246    11,549    11,236
Interest in arrears                    11,93     7,242      7,780     5,209
Total Arrears                    21,850    20,4B8    19,329    16,445
As X of total principal             8.3        6.3       4.7        3.7
outstanding
Principal affected by arrears           47,978    96,276   106,179    90,824
As Z of total principal                   18        29         26        20
outstanding
B. Loan Reschedulings
Principal amount rescheduled           3,087     1,685      2,508     2,549
Rescheduling as % of
outstanding portfolio                  1.2       0.5        0.6       0.6
C.  Amounts Written-Off                      5,141        689       188          -
D.  Collection Rate (Z)                       78.5      76.9       82.1       82.0
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



-86 -                              ANNEX 12
Table 2
MLAYSIA
SHALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industriai 2-evelopment Finance Bhd. (MIDF)
Age Structure of Arrears as of December 31 1983
(M$ V000)
Dec 31, 1903  Age categories (by months)
Arrears categories                    No.  Amount   0-3   4-6   7-12   Over 12
Normal delay in payment of install-
ments                               132      0.8    0.8    -     -         -
Projects with arrangements to
settle arrears by installments      180     4.2    1.1   2.8   0.3         -
Projects under investigation            14     0.6    0.1   0.4   0.1        -
Problem projects                       48      1.6    0.2   1.3   0.1        -
Projects under legal action            53      9.8    0.1   0.5   1.2       8.0
Projects destroyed by fire              3      -       -     -     -         -
Total                            430    17.0    2.3   5.0   1.7        8.0
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



ANNEX 13
MALAYSIA
S11ALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (HIDF)
Resource Position as of December 31, 1983
(Ws °000)
12/31/83
Long-Term Resources
Paid-in capital                                                79,673
Unappropriate profit and reserves                             121,858
Provisior,s for doubtful accounts                              12.945
Depreciation and noncash items                                  8,658
Term loans from government                                     50,759
Others and statutory bodies                                   223,200
Long-term foreign resources (including                          3,270
provision for foreign exchange fluctuation)
Total Term Resources                                     500,363
Less:  Term loans outstanding                                   460,310
Equity investments                                        21,770
Other fixed asets                                         10,367
Amount available for disbursement                          7,916
Less: Undisbursed commitments                                   116,100
Resources available for commitments                     (116,196)
Less:  Uncommitted approvals (approved pending                   17,100
acceptance)
Resources Available for Approval                        (133,296)/a
/a The company's borrowings have always been on a disbursement rather than
commitment basis. During the projection period, MIDF requires new
resources of approximately MS348.8 million of the following composition:
New      Of which      New
borrowings    to be    borrowings
Source              Maturity       (gross)    repaid /b    (net)
('IS million)
Unsecured notes issued    up to 2 years    190.0         160.0       30.0
to local institutions
Insurance companies and   Over 2 years      320.0         50.0      270.0
mobilizers of long-term
funds
WBSSE Project
Wcrld Bank               Over 2 years      30.0           -        30.0
Others                                     18.8           -        18.8
Total                                558.8       210.0       348.8
/b Does not include repayments on MIDF's actual debt.
AEP Projects Department
Aprll 30, 1984



HIALAYSIA
SHIALI.-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
talaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (HIDF)
ProJected Stanary of Operations, FY84-89
(.%I$ '000)   -  '   -
Prolected
Years ending March 31                         FY84               FY85              FY86              FY87               FY88              FY84
Loan Approvals
Loans
Fixed assets                                  94,400           127,000            150,00n           172,On0           194,000            216,000
Working capital                                    -                  -                 -                 -                  _                 _
Other (leases)                                11,000             18,000            20,000            23,000             26,000            29,000
WBSSE Project                                       -             5,000            20,000            20,000             15,000                 -
Total Loan Approvals (Net)                 105,400           150,000            190,000           2I5, °°           235,000           245,000
Disbursement
Fixed assets                                    96,800             R6,743           118,650           117,050            138,225           154,100
Working capital                                       -
Other (leases)                                   4,627             11,950            15,300             17,350            19,750            22,150
WASSE Project                                         -                 -            11,625            20,000             20,000             8,375
Total Disbursement.                       101,427            98,693            145,S75           154,400           177,975           184,625
Repayment
Fixed assets                                    64,343            92,858             88,887           103,683            111,462           115,013
Working capital                                       _                 _                 _                  _                 _                 _
Other (lenses)                                      381             2,829             7,311             13,038            17,173            ;1,627
WBSSF Project                                         -                 -                 -                732             2,806             5,635
Total Repaygent                            64,724            95,687            96,198            117,453           131,441           139,275
Total Outstanding
FIxed assets                                   436,074            427,009           457,772           471,139           497,902            537,489
Working capital                                       -                 _                 _                  _                 _                 _
Other (leases)                                   4,260             13,367            21,356            25,66R             28,245            31,768
WBSSE Project                                         -                 -            11,646            31,524             50,135            55,098
Other3 - subsidiaries                           27,316             26,316            26,316            23,316             23,316            20,316
Total outstanding                         467,650           466,692            317,090           551,647           599,598           644,671
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



ANNEX 14
-89-                                     Table 2
MIALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (MIDF)
Projected Summuarized Income Statements, FY84-89
(0S '000)
Projected
Years ending March 31                      FY84     FY85      FY85     FY86      1987      1988
Income
Interest on loans to industries         45,477  47,962   53,686   59,106   63,078   69,152
Interest on loans on WBSSE Project           -        -       455    2,320    4,278    5,479
Interst on loans to subsidiaries         1,937   1,937    1,937    1,838    1,734    1,646
Interest on fixed deposits               1,912      700       700      700       700      700
Income on investments                    1,880   1,935    1,935    1,935    1,935    1,935
Other income                             4,711   2,424    2,407    2,407    2,407    2,407
Total Income                       55,917  54,958   61,120   68,306   74,132   81,319
Expense
Financial expense                       21,670  23,222   26,036   29,122   31,226   33,634
wBSSE Project financial expense               -       -       371    1,820    3,232    4,073
General & administrative expense
Personnel cost                         4,786   5,379    5,734    6,114    6,519    6,951
Rent                                     222      252      269       288       308      330
Other                                  2,086   2,557    2,632    2,787    2,726    2,904
wBSSE Project other expense                  -        -        63      319       589       754
Provision for doubtful accounts          2,078   1,380    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Other                                    1,071      255    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Total Expense                      31,913  33,045   37,105   42,450   46,600   50,646
Income before taxes                24,004  21,913   24,015   25,856   27,532   30,673
Less:  Taxation                           10,439  10,054   11,030   11,868   12,634   14,059
Net Income                                13,565  11,859   12,985   13,988   14,898   16,614
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



-90-
AINfEX 14
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
M4ALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (NIDF)
Projected Su_marized Balance Sheets, FY84-89
(Ns 000)
Projected
Year ending March 31               FY84       FY85      FY86       FY87      FY88       FY89
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and bank deposits         13,869     4,655      6,898     4,236      1,290     4,829
Receivable from sub-
sidiary companies             1.702        702       702       702        702       702
Term loans due within
one year                    109,019   106,752   114,464   118,416   126,524   138,643
Provision for doubtful
accounts                     (4,129)   (5,454)   (6,354)   (7,254)   (8,154)   (9,054)
Subtotal                  120,461   106,655   115,710   116,L00   120,362   135,120
Accruals                       12,000    12.000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000
Sundry debtors and
prepayments                   6,048     6,598      6,598     6,598      6,598     6,598
Total Current
Assets                            125.253   134,308   134,698   138.960   153.718
Fimed Assets
Medium/long-term loans        327.055   320.257   343,329   353,354   373.426   403,117
lBSSE project                       -          -    11.625    30,893    48,087    50,827
Lease receivables               4,260    13,367    21,356    25,668    28,245    31,768
Provision for doubtful
accounts                     (7.261)   (2,316)   (2,416)   (2,516)   (2,616)   (2,716)
Amounts due from sub-
sidiary companies            25,614    25.614    25,614    22,614    22,614    19,614
Subtotal                  349,668   356,922   399.508   430.013   469,756   502.610
Investment in subsidiary
companies                    19,743    19,743    19,743    19,743    19,743    19.743
Other investments               2,027     4,027      5,027     6,027      7,027     8,027
Subtotal                   21,770    23,770    24,770    25.770    26.770    27,770
Other fixed assets             10,210     9,255      8,354     7,454      6,554     5.654
Total Fixed
Assets                  381,648   389,947   432.632   463,237   503.080   536.034
Total Assets              520,157   515,200   566.940   597.935   642,040   689,752



-91-                                  ANNEX 14
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
Proiected
Year ending March 31               FY84       FY85      FY86       FY87      FY58       FY89
LIABILITIES
Current LiaMilities
Short-term borrowings               -    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000
Short-term portion of
term loans (due with-       62,066   111.837    92,736   101,736   101,786   110.836
in one year)
Payables                        6,283      6,299     7,173      7,408     7,438      9,145
Accruals and other
creditors                     5,170     5,149      5,149      5,149     5,149      5,149
Other /a                       26,891    26,657    Z9,141    35,020    36,283    37,601
Total Current
Liabilities             100.410   159,942   144,199   150,313   160,656   172.731
Term Debts
Goeversment loans              36,042    20,500    18.000    15.500    13,000    10,500
Other                         180,068   123,773   173.536   173,300   184,014   205,678
UBSSE Prolect
'World Bank                         -          -     5,813    15,813    25,813    30,000
Otber                               -          -     5,812    13,812    18,812    18,812
Subtotal                  26,110   144,273   203,161   218,425   241,639   264.990
Provisions for staff
retirement benefits            2.350      2,623     3,017      3.430     3,864      4.320
Equity
Paid-up capital                79,726    79,726    79,726    79,726    79,726    79,726
Undistributed profits         121,561   128,636   136,837   146,041   156,155   167,985
Total Equity,             201,287   208,362   216,563   225,767   235,881   247,711
Total Liabilities &
Shareholders' Equity   520,157   515.200   566.940   597,935   642,040   689,752
/a Including tax provision
payable after 12 months of:    9,926      7,369    12,751    14,121    14,498    14,895
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



-92 -                                   ANNEX 14
Table 4
MALAYSIA
SKALL-SCALE ENITERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Whd. (MIDF)
Proleeted Cash Floms, FY84-89
(XS 000)
Prolected
Years ending March 31                    FY84       F85      FY85     FY86      1987     1988
Sources of Funds
Income before corporate               23,004    21,913   24,015   25.856   27,532   30,673
Income tax
Add back noneash charges                3,214     2,010    2,394    2,413    2,434    2,456
(depreciation,
provisions, etc.)
Capital Increase                           58         -        -        -        -         -
Breakdown of borrowings
Government                               -          -        -        -        -         -
Private                            176.200/a  40,000  151.625  108,000  125,000  134,187
World Bank 
Statutory bodies                         -          -        -        -        -        -
Loan collection                       64,724    95,687   96.198  117,453  131,441  139,275
Disposal of lavestment                      6         -        -        _ -                -
Other                                      -          -        -    3,000        -    3,000
Total Sources of Funds                       159610  274,232  256.722  286,407 309.591
Application of Funds
Disbursements
Investment loans          }
Working capital loans 
Investment financing               101,j!-   98,693  133,950  134,400  157,975  176,250
Other financing programs 
PBSSZ Project                            -          -   11.625   20,000   20,000    8,375
Repayments
Government loans                    13,944    14,717   15,541    2,500    2,500    2,500
Private loans                            -    12.000   16.000   60.000   90.000   99,050
World Bank loan                        340        349      296      236      236       236
Statutory bodies                   130,000    35.000   80,000   30,000         -        -
Increase in fixed assets                 171        100      100      100      100       100
Payment of corporate income tax        9,415    10,288    8,546    5,989   11,371   _2,741
Dividends                              4,780      4,784    4,784    4,784    4,784    4.784
Other                                  2,517      2,102    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Increase in receivables               (1,011)       786    1.021      610    1,417    2,723
Less:  Increase in payables            (1,185)   (9,995)    (874)    (235)      (30)  (1,707)
Total APpllcation of Funds      260.406   168,824  271,989  259,384  289.353 306.052
Cash Plow Surplus/(Deflcic)              6,800    (9,214)   2,243   (2,662)  (2,946)   3.539
OpenIng cash balance                     7,069    13,869    4.655    6,898    4,236    1.290
Closing cash balance                     13.869     4,655    6.898    4,236    1,290    4,829
/a Incremental borroving in FY84:
source                                       S million
Centrgl Bank                                           65.00
Private - Banks                                        15.00
- Insurance companies                          16.20
Statutory bodies                                       80.00
176.20
AZP Projects Department
April 30. 1984



- 93 -                                           ANNEX 14
Table 5
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd. (MIDF)
Projected Financial Indicators, *Y84-89
(N5  000)
Projected
Year endlng March 31                              FY84       FY85      FY86       FY87      FYB8      FY89
General
Total assets                                   520,157   515,200   566,940   597,935   642,040   689,752
Term loans                                     327,055   320.257   354,954   384,247   421,513   453.944
Short-term loans                               109,019   106,752   114.464   118,416   126,524   138,643
Subtotal                                436.074   427,009   469.418   502.663   548,037   592.587
Leases                                           4.246    13,367    21.356    25.668    28,245    31.768
Investments                                     21.770    23.770    24,770    25,770    26,770    27,770
Total Portfolio                         462,090   464.146   515,544   554,101   603.052   652.125
Term resources                                 216,110   144,273   203,161   218,425   241,639   264,990
Current maturities of term resources            62.066   111,837    92,736    92,736   101,786   110,836
Equity                                         201,287   208,362   216,563   225,767   235.881   247,711
Net profit                                      13,565    11,859    12,985    13,988    14,898    16,614
As Z of Total Average Assets
Income from term loans                             9.5        9.6      10.4       10.8      11.2      11.4
Other income                                        L.5       1.0       0.9       0.9        0.8       0.8
Gross income                                       11.0      10.6      11.3       11.7      12.0      12.2
Resource cost                                      4.3        4.5       4.9        5.3       5.6        i.7
Average lending spread                             5.2        5.1       5.5        5.5       5.6       5.7
Average spread                                     6.7        6.1       6.4        6.4       6.4       6.5
Administrative expense                             1.7        1.8       1.8        1.8       1.8       1.7
Provision for doubtful accounts                    0.4        0.1       0.2       0.2        0.2       0.2
Gross profit                                       4.6        4.2       4.4       4.4        4.4       4.6
Corporate income tax                               2.1        1.9       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.1
Set profit                                         2.5        2.3       2.4        2.4       2.4       2.5
Net Profit as Z of Total
Average Net Worth                         6.4        5.8       6.1       6.3        6.5       6.9
Other Ratios
Provision as Z of total portfolio lb               2.4        1.7       1.7        1.7       1.8       1.8
Current ratio                                      1.5        0.8       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0
Long-term debt/equity ratio                        1.3        1.2       1.4        1.4       1.5       1.5
Total debt/equity ratio                            1.6        1.5       1.6        1.6       1.7       1.8
Debt cover ratio (times)                           0.6        1.6       1.0        1.3       1.4       1.4
Interest cover ratio (times)                       1.7        1.6       1.6        1.5       1.5       1.5
Book value per share (In MS)                       2.52       2.61      2.72       2.83      2.96      3.11
Dividend payout ratio                             58.8       67.2      61.4       57.0      53.5      48.0
/a Including term loan portion due within 12 months.
/b  Excluding loans to subsidiaries.  Spectfic provisions are made on the basis of a portfolio analysis as
and vhen required. In addition, a general provision Is made based G 0.52 of the portfolio net of loans
for which specific provision has been made.
AEP Projects Department
April 30, 1984



- 94 -                            ANNEX 15
MALAYSIAL
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of Proposed Loan
(US$ million)
Estimated          Estimated              Total
cumulative         cumulative            estimate
Bank' 'scal               disbursement       disbursements /a      cumulative
year  .tmester           (TA component)    (credit component)    disbursement
FY85
Fxrst                                           0.1                  0.1
Second                                          2.8                  2.8
PY86
First                        1.2                8.2                  9.4
Second                       2.3               15.3                 17.6
FY87
First                        3.5               22.9                 26.4
Second                       4.5               29.8                 34.4
FY88
First                        5.3               35.3                 40.6
Second                       5.4               39.2                 44.6
FY89
First                                          45.9                 47.3
Second                                         43.8                 49.2
FY90
First                                          45.1                 50.5
Second                                         46.7                 52.1
Closing Date: June 30, 1990
/a Estimated disbursements largely conform with the disbursement profile for
"IDF Sector Loans" in East Asia and Pacific.
Projects Department
June 1, 1984



95                            ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSTA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
(i)     Malaysia's Manufacturing Sector:  Development Issues and Policy
Options (Report No. 3187-MA)
Cii)    Development Issues and Prospects of Small Enterprises (Report No.
3851-MA)
(iii)   An Evaluation of Technical Assistance Programs Provided by
Selected Agencies for Small-Scale Enterprise Development in
Malaysia, Small Business Development Center, University Pertanian
Malaysia
Uiv)    The Technical and Financial Assistance Needs of a Selected Group
of Small-Scale Bumiputera_Enterprises in Malaysia: A Forecast
Small Business Development Center, University Pertanian Malaysia
(v)     An Evaluation of the Development of Mini Industrial Estates for
Selected Small-Scale Enterprises in Malaysia, Small Business
Development Center, University Perranian Malaysia
(vi)    An Evaluation of the Government Procurement Mechanism, Small
Business Development Center, University Pertanian Malaysia
(vii)   An Evaluation of the Sub-contracting Mechanism of Selected
Industries, Small Business Development Center, University
Pertanian Malaysia
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
(i)     Detailed Description of the National Productivity Center, includ-
ing:
(a) Itemized Details of Project Cost; and
(b) Agreed Terms of Reference for: (i) Construction Industry
Consultant; (ii) Marketing Consultant; (iii) Business Law
Consultant; and (iv) Tax Consultant
(ii)    Detailed Description of the Malaysian Entrepreneurial
Development Center, including:
(a) Itemized Details of Project Cost; and
(b) Agreed Terms of Reference for: (i) Small Business Management
Training Consultant; and (ii) Small Business Consultancy Con-
sultant



ANNEX 16
- 96 -                          Page 2 of 2
(iii)   Detailed Description of the Food Technology Division of the
Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute, includ-
ing:
(a) Itemized Details of Project Cost; and
(b) Agreed Terms of Reference for: (i) Mechanical Engineering
Contulant; and (ii) Food Engineering Consultant
(iv)    Detailed Description of the Forest Research Institute, including:
(a)  Itemized Details of Project Cost; and
(b)  Agreed Terms of Reference for:  (i) Wood, Bamboo and Rattan
Products Design and Marketing Consultant; (ii) Bamboo and
Rattan Products Consultant; and (iii) Wood Products
Consultant
(v)     Detailed Description of the Standards and Industrial Research
Institute of Malaysia, including:
(a) Itemized Details of Project Cost
(vi)    Itemized Details of Project Cost of the Small Enterprise Division
of the Miistry of Trade and Industry
(vii)   Itemized Details of the BPMB subcomponent of the TA component
(viii)  Itemized Details of the MIDF subcomponent of the TA component
(ix)    Agreed Terms of Reference for SED Advisors:  (i) Consultant on
Monitoring and Evaluation of Technical Assistance; and (ii) Con-
sultant on Subcontracting and Government Procurement
(x)     Agreed Terms of Reference for BPMB Advisors:  (i) Senior Advisor;
(ii) Engineering Advisor; and (iii) Management Information System
Consultant
(xi)    Details of BPMB's Term Loans from the Government as of
December 31, 1983
(xii)   Details of Term Loans from MIDF's Various Sources as of
December 31, 1983
(xiii)  Report of Mr. Henry S. Warren (consultant to the Bank) "Technical
Assistance for Small-Scale Enterprise in Malaysia," August 1983
AEP Projects Department
May 25, 1984



- 97- C_AZT x
MMA
SMWLSCALE  EE      E PECT
MokWAftncrd:Wb9
aseDucwnber3l. 1963
anowsomm~
-1 ~       ~        | 
IE.d~~~~~~~a~~~~-I   IIWNA
I ~    ~       ~         _ siat D_acx                    IJ Igt.tu
*tl~~~~~~~IW.  SI_T n"ar WAm) ;                                                       Aadft, 31 WfAM
lascoomam, $40494. ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      *MlaS~ta
30W_                      I FIhD02_a10E0
ar arv
[~~                                                           C? 'LG 
sopp.""a             Ir
_  SNt  N& l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CJAo   L I fWt II
_0                                      W_1^ UaB         I    Wl    t       II      _          
I-ONJR                                 1"ArkBW              ?MOA.*SOL
{ l  1_Ffmlm{|t SIIIU|lll   9  zar5-
lo__-~~~                            I.,   .w.= I  I   I X  t                        -,l                                    411o vna
|APOWmSA l|      i1I
1~laDe        mI              50101111  IM .-  2I     I
{ew,,~~~~.-Woc§                          A= ilaokalc l_-|    -_1r ISlSC                          *-
I9K"OWI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hkC VA-Gr                                    &
~~~AC~~~~OWN  IMA                                            G&VO- 9IM lDIa
~~'>w10.tl0 ~ ~    O                                                                                                          W F  2CmV&L_ tOttfmmup



- 98 -I
MALAYSIA                                               CHART II
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Pembangunan Mabysia BDethd
Organiation Choat as of December 31. 1983
_iANaaP6   -  _ ~TSRA S 0-ADO I
R" HAJI           ASIPAE       02 AUCL&                  0-
& hE1~~~~    5 -2    W~MODAW~ CAP _j&
SS _ 
DAOhN    ¶Qs o-9 * 62  I  DIELENT            I 2DERROW                              ONISION  0t                               -I 5 BI o
- GL SHEMN MUSM- R>o3DAU 14AL  S_- 9                  tA |   O 0UN    s - a               _C4AM               -NWW 8_       A
.   n  so    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONSECRARIAT 0 -2_
-VZNNABZ.AL ABN    _-USWCHNSEN    S -2
|FTW*~~~~~~~~~RSACE8 0- 9                1       PUarLD    0-7           L            3L|&  I0Ar
q~~~~~~~~~~~~-L  ADN sZ4                  3 I4  5 - HASA SDOS                    ADINI111
q ~ ~~~~~ ~~ DEIJ TLOEMtlENPT~ 0-1                                0 -3    0U   |M-fg13F                            s
- AAA AU TSSoM S -2 6   - AaUUM  N5 -       | _       om   KAS    5- 3                                                 5 S-f l
MAININ  S0U                                                                         0-ll7WS    0
|  ND16:Dt~~~~~~~~~LIN NASIS _O                    -.W AHFAPI  S-3 
- O= ADM                                                                           ENR^ 0      -2 01OFINV
LEG   5 Sf                                                                     EAIE11>N A5-2 -a
NARAV~ NAIR                          tEA"                    K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TW0.AN SV    c   |
:EP O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZASDNOXAV
RO2V                                                                             N3tHAK   0-4         n Y* %A4   80r - 35



MALAYSLU
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Maklsian Industflol Development Fnance Bhd. (MIDF)                                CHART III
Organizatlon Chart As d March 31,1984
c Gesai talo
LMli  Flrg  lLorig  YFg, ah |r~n  h
IT ei                                                tbpd  C  h'--Oa  _ _ _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrld SOr -262r44 ,l w 
T~PlO Ay    Iee Yoke F |                                                                           be
OCI lillKea  OYIS1 ^hat Allt# Z                                                bote Filb
| Cndl -] 4 Y~~~~~~eoa ct                                                                           DWhSono 3 ffin 9                                 n
rcl..l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.c W.l
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~T kX9 PW YkAimo I  IOhlell ecum 
AinJ            L  F    |                                          A 
Rqon  ,        - ~|| hekiSono
hia AboV-h
L. Kee Choi
A£PDJO. Ap-d ;0 1



1800                                       164.                                         1; 1
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE
T H A I L A NAD    BPMB BRANCHES
6     MIDF BRANCHES
ROADS
+-1-4 -   RAILWAYS
PORTS
Kango.                                                                                            STATE BOUNDARIES
Alao s.                  .Ol BhaSuo                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOL
n°  H    OJ  L  .  \                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KlLOMElES
-  KuOlo Te..ggan.
Kul Soeln 5, uno
Pa.t King                                                             INDONESIA
<_r~~~~~emsn \\E,dou /.
Ma lo          co 
-<                             iochor Bah,u                                                               ,
- SINGAPORE
I N DONESIA
104-                                         108



IBRD 1839;
112-                                                               1 t
RISE PROJECT
PHILIPPINES
B-
-NCHES                                                                                                               /
-- NCHES                                                                                                                                                                         |
.-S                                                                                                                           Klt dot
*UNDARIES
- TIONAL BOUNDARIES
Kaoto K.babou                                   Snaa
300             400
BRUNEI                                                            Lohod DO       Bokoa
rS         , 
cCwn_fus   oef The   lo IMh
r7ana the Inth-m h.norstv; f Irwe
vswd knrldf  unde Jr-s shown
\ \ <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ o~~~~~~n  rnts nuw doo nof wg*r an the
parul of rh  n World Bank  W aMe
I    N      D      0     N      E    S    I   A                                t.-wilod Fswnce Cormakun.
ai'v padtgnwA on Ihe kW  stEams
o aini t ferroryor any
K4    1'  141                fi                                       _= lw5ewhor acc..t)Isic. of
;11'such bzoundr Js       198
JULY 1984



