Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11860
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 2471-MA)
MAY 6, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00        =         M$2.34 (1984, Appraisal)
US$1.00        =         M$2.48 (1985 Average Annual)
US$1.00        =         M$2.58 (1986 Average Annual)
US$1.00                  M$2.52 (1987 Average Annual)
US$1.00        =         M$2.62 (1988 Average Annual)
US$1.00        =         M$2.71 (1989 Average Annual)
US$1.00        =         M$2.71 (1990, Completion)
ABBREVIATIONS
AJDF              -      ASEAN-Japan Development Fund
BPMB              -      Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
CCDSE             -      Coordinating Council for the Development of Small Enterprises
DFC               -      Development Finance Company
FRIM              -      Forest Research Institute of Malaysia
FTD/MARDI         -      Food and Technology Division of Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Institute (MARDI)
GOM               -      Government of Malaysia
MARA              -      Majlis Amanah Rakyat
MEDEC/MARA    -          Malaysian Entrepreneurial Development Center at MARA
MIDF              -      Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad
NEP               -      New Economic Policy
NIF               -      National Investment Fund
NPC               -      National Productivity Center (Bumiputera Services Division)
PAs               -      Participating Agencies
SAR               -      Staff Appraisal Report
SED/MTI           -      Small Enterprise Division/Small and Medium Industries Section of the
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI)/Ministry of National and Rural
Development
SIRIM             -      Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia
SSEs              -      Small-Scale Enterprises
TA                -      Technical Assistance
UNDP              -      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malaysia/Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB)
January 1 - December 31
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berliad (MTDF)
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Diroctor-Gon.ral
Operatons EvaluatIon
May 6, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Malaysia -
Small-Scale Enterprise Project (Loan 2471-MA)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Malaysia - Small-Scale
Enterprise Project (Loan 2471-MA)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
The project objectives - extension of term credit, expansion, rationalization, and coordination
of technical assistance programs, and strengthening of the institutions providing financial and technical
assistance to small scale enterprises (SSEs) - were substantially achieved.
Tlhe larger purpose of strengthening the SSE sector was affected by lack of a coherent strategy
and policy reform program. However, recently the Government set out to develop a SSE policy
package to rationalize the respective roles of the institutions involved, strengthen linkages between SSEs
and larger firms, remove administrative hurdles, and reorient incentives.
The PCR is of good quality and comprehensive in its coverage. The project outcome is rated
as satisfactory, its impact on institutional development as partial, and its sustainability as likely.
In the absence of a follow-on operation, and since an audit would not add much to our
understanding of project outcomes, the operation will not be audited.
Attachment
Tis document ha a restrictd distribut  ad ay be used by redpiau oob in the permaon of ther offIia dti, Ita
costea  my mot orwise be diadoeed wit Wortd Bak authorization.                             I



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 2471-MA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ...............................................                                                                     i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ....................................                                                                   iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                   ......              1
1.  Project Identity  ..........................................                                                             1
2.  Background  ............................................                                                                 1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  ..............................                                                       2
4.  Project Design and Organization   ...............................                                                        3
5.  Project Implementation             ....................................                                                  4
6.  Project Results  ..........................................                                                              5
7.  Project Sustainability   ......................................                                                          9
8.  Bank Performance  ........................................                                                               9
9.  Borrower Performance   .....................................                                                             9
10.  Project Relationship  .......................................                                                           10
11.  Consulting Services  .......................................                                                            10
12.  Project Documentation and Data   ...............................                                                        10
13.  Lessons Learned  .........................................                                                              11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .....                                                              12
1.  Background  ............................................                                                               12
2.  Comments on Part I of the Project Completion Report ..................                                                 12
3. The World Bank's Performance during the Evolution and Implementation
of the Project, and Lessons Learned  ............................                                                    14
4. The Borrower's Performance during the Evolution and Implementation
of the Project, and Lessons Learned  ............................                                                    15
5.  The Effectiveness of the Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower                                .....           16
PART  III:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   ..........................                                                           17
1.  Related Bank Loans  .......................................                                                            17
2.  Project Timetable   ........................................                                                            17
3.  Loan Disbursements  .......................................                                                            18
4.  Status of Covenants  .......................................                                                            19
5. Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs   ...........................................                                                          20
Missions  .............................................                                                             20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Eage No.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION (cont'd.)
6. Project Implementation
6.1 Overall Allocation and Use of TA Funds (Project Costs by End Use and PAs)                 21
6.2 Comparison of Actual TA Expenditure with Revised and Original Budgets  . .                22
6.3 Use of Consultancy/Advisory Services .........................                            23
6.4 Use of Fellowships and Overseas Training  ......................                          24
6.5 Approval of Subloans by Participating Financial Institutions  ....         .......        25
6.6 Distribution of Subloans by Target Group .......................                          26
6.7 Overview of Subprojects Approved (Net) .......................                            27
6.8 Characteristics and Performance of Subprojects  ...................                       28
7. BPMB's Financial Performance
7.1 Summarized Balance Sheet, 1985-90 ..........................                              30
7.2 Summarized Income Statement, 1985-90 ........................                             32
7.3 Financial Indicators, 1985-90  ..............................                             33
7.4 Summary of Operations, 1985-90 ............................                               34
7.5 Loan Approvals by Size, 1985-90 ............................                              36
7.6 Loan Approvals by Subsector, 1985-90  ........................                            37
7.7 Resource Position as of December 31, 1985-90  ...................                         38
7.8 Portfolio Status as of December 31, 1985-90 .....................                         39
7.9 Age Structure of Loan Arrears as of December 31, 1985-90  ....             .......        41
8. MIDF's Financial Performance
8.1 Summarized Balance Sheets, March 31, 1986-91  ..................                          42
8.2 Summarized Income Statement, FY 1986-91  .....................                            44
8.3 Financial Indicators, FY 1986-91 ............................                             45
8.4 Summary of Operations, FY  1985-91  ...........            ..      ............           46
8.5 Characteristics of Loan and Lease Commitments for FY  1985-90  ....           ....        47
8.6 Resource Position as of March 31, 1989-91 ......................                          49
8.7 Quality of Loan and Lease Portfolio, 1985-91  ....................                        50
8.8 Analysis of Arrears, 1985-91  ..............................                              52
9. Size Structure and Performance of the Non-Agricultural Economy, 1978             ......        53
10. Special Loan Programs Available to Small and Medium Industry, 1990  .......                    54



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 2471-MA)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Small-Scale Enterprise (SSE) Project in
Malaysia for which Loan 2471-MA in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$52.1 million
was approved by the Board on October 16, 1984 at the standard variable rate for 15 years including
three years of grace. The loan was made to the Government of Malaysia (Borrower) and consisted of
an institutional credit component of US$46.65 million and a technical assistance (TA) component of
US$4.75 million. Of the total loan, US$34.00 million were on-lent to Bank Pembangunan Malaysia
Berhad (BPMB) and US$13.45 million to Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad (MIDF),
and US$3.95 million were passed on as a budgetary grant to other six Participating Agencies (PAs).
The loan was closed on June 30, 1990. With the cancellation of US$22.32 million loan amount on
December 3, 1990, the net loan amount of US$29.78 was fully disbursed by November 30, 1990. In
accordance with the amortization schedule, the Borrower repaid US$13.92 million to the Bank as of
April 1, 1991.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared in the Industry and
Energy Operations Division, Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region (EAIIE). Part II was
prepared by the Borrower/PAs after receipt, for comments, of the draft Parts I and III. The
Borrower/PAs have also supplied part of the statistical information required for Part III.
This PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Loan and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; internal Bank memoranda; correspondence between the Bank and the Bor-
rower/PAs; the PAs' annual and quarterly progress reports; BPMB's and MIDF's audited annual
financial statements and progress reports; and a brief project completion mission.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 2471-MA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.     In the context of its New Economic Policy (NEP), the Government of Malaysia (GOM)
regarded efficient growth of small scale enterprises (SSEs) as an important vehicle for eradicating
poverty, geographically dispersing industry, and redressing economic imbalances between ethnic groups.
Yet, in the early 1980s, SSEs lagged behind larger firms in growth. The GOM asked hence the Bank
to undertake a study of the SSE sector, and to prepare this Project [paras. 2.1-2.4].
2.      The SSE Report identified as the most critical constraints biases against SSEs in tax, trade,
procurement and other policies; an unhealthy regime of interest rate ceilings and volume targets for SSE
lending; and lack of consolidation and coordination among the agencies involved in SSE policies and
programs [para. 2.5]. The Project itself, the first industrial project of the Bank in almost two decades,
pursued more narrowly defined objectives [para. 3.11:
(i) expansion and rationalization of technical support programs for SSEs, and strengthening of the
institutions that provided these programs;
(ii) increasing supply of longer term credit for Bumiputera SSEs, together with strengthening of
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB) and expanded SSE lending by Malaysian
Industrial Development Finance Berhad (MIDF); and
(iii) improved coordination of financial and technical services to Bumiputera entrepreneurs so that
they receive, in an integrated fashion, the full range of services they need to modernize their
enterprises.
Project Components
(i) The credit component of M$210 million was to provide 1,100-1,200 subloans through BPMB
and MIDF to SSEs. Eligibility to subloans was initially limited to Bumiputera-owned SSEs
with up to M$300,000 equity [para. 4.41.
(ii)  The TA component of M$21.3 million aimed at reinforcing selected SSE support institutions.
Mechanisms were to be introduced to better integrate technical services with the provision of
credit, and to monitor and evaluate TA. The participating agencies included the extension
services divisions of the three research institutes Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Institute (MARDI), Forest Research Institute of Malaysia (FRIM), and Standards
and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (SIRIM); the two training institutes National
Productivity Center (NPC) and Malaysian Entrepreneurial Development Center (MEDEC);



- iv -
and, as the implementing and coordinating unit, the Small Enterprise Division (SED) of the
Ministry of Trade and Industry. BPMB and MIDF received TA as well [paras. 4.24.31.
Implementation Experience
3.      Soon after Loan effectiveness in April 1985, the Malaysian economy plunged into a deep
recession. Moreover, the GOM introduced a number of special subsidized funds particularly for small
and medium Bumiputera firms, such as the New Investment Fund and the Asean Japan Development
Fund. These developments weakened the demand for subloans under the Project. In response, the
Government and the Bank opened the credit line to all ethnic groups; increased five fold the size ceiling
on eligible SSEs, in terms of equity; doubled the subloan limit; and reduced the re-lending rate to 5.0%
from the original 7.3 % so that BPMB and MIDF could on-lend to SSEs at 7.75 % instead of the original
rates between 9% and more than 11%. The final date for subloan approval still had to be extended
thrice, from 12/31/1987 to, finally, 6/30/1990. Implementation of the TA component made more
steady progress. Expenditures reached 91% of the original budget for hardware and 52% for
consultants and training. The employment of consultants suffered from shortage of counterpart funds,
and from lack of interest from the participating agencies. Reporting was on the whole satisfactory
although timeliness of reports on the non-financial agencies deteriorated over time. The audits for 1989
and 1990 have yet to be submitted fparas. 5.1-5.5].
Results
4.      Overall, the Project achieved satisfactory progress towards its particular objectives, and 57.2%
of the Bank Loan was disbursed. Under the credit line, 959 subloans were approved (net), totalling
M$175.2 million, or 83% of the estimated M$210 million. 45% of subloans, by amount, was taken
by Bumiputera SSEs. Also about 45% went beyond the three main industrial states. Disconcertingly,
about 38% of the subloan principal on-lent by BPMB was in arrears by end 1990. For strenghening
of the onlendin2 institutions, BPMB undertook a portfolio review and introduced various organizational
reforms to improve loan quality and recovery. By end-1990, 38% of its total portfolio was still in
arrears, though, and its long-term debt:equity ratio was 14.0. MIDF improved its portfolio quality fast,
after the recession, and rigorously maintained adequate capitalization. The five extension agencies
could much strengthen their services for SSEs, ranging from consulting and "incubating" of firms to
product development and model factories, and to about 10,000 participant-months of training. The
coordination and evaluation of the SSE support programs suffered from SED's repeated organizational
changes, and its failure to instal the planned computerized monitoring system. The larger purpose of
strengthening the SSE sector was affected by lack of coherent reform of SSE policy, and continued
interest rate ceilings, until comprehensive reform efforts started in 1990. These recent reforms aim at
creating a high quality SSE sector to support larger enterprises [paras. 6.1-6.9, and 8.1-12.11.
Sustainabil ity
5.      The prospects for sustained operation of the SSE extension services are encouraging due to
enhanced staff quality, infrastructure, and management systems. The institutions strengthened their
flexibility, client orientation, and innovation of services, which will help sustainability. Threats to
sustainability are the low recognition of extension services within institutes which leads to staff
discouragement or reassignment, and to insufficient budgets for updating skills and equipment. The
SSE lending by MIDF and BPMB could be affected by MIDF's orientation towards larger projects but
is on the whole promising.



Findings and Lessons Learned
(i) As the on-lending rate should be market-oriented, an understanding needs to be reached that
the target group not obtain similar credit at below-market rates. Addressing this issue at an
early stage should not be avoided for the sake of building relationships.
(ii) Lending through financial intermediaries in a distorted segment of the financial sector may not
be productive.
(iii) Development banks, be they private or state owned, must not compromise strict discipline in
project appraisal and credit collection even under an affirmative action program.
(iv) Where the policy framework is critical to the strengthening of industrial enterprises, it should
be addressed in the framework of the project.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT (LOAN 2471-MA)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Proiect Identity
Name               :    Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Loan Number              2471-MA
RVP Unit                 East Asia and Pacific Region
Country            :    Malaysia
Sector             .    Industry
Subsector          :    Small-Scale Enterprises
2.  Background
2.1     Despite Malaysia's rapid economic growth since its independence, two basic problems had
persisted: widespread poverty and serious racial imbalances. In response to these problems, the
Government adopted the New Economic Policy (NEP) in 1971 to eradicate poverty and to restructure
Malaysian society so that the identification of race with economic function be reduced and eventually
eliminated. Promotion of the manufacturing sector and of small-scale enterprises (SSEs) were two of
the high priority vehicles chosen to attain these objectives. The Bank undertook studies of these two
issues and eventually identified this Project as the Bank's first industry-related operation in Malaysia
in almost two decades. The Project was expected to be instrumental for the development of a broader
industrial lending program in the country (see III. 1).
2.2     A first Bank study pointed out that the manufacturing sector had grown rapidly during the
1970s but that it had major structural problems requiring policy adjustments mainly in export
development, tariff protection, and fiscal incentives. The Bank then executed a UNDP-financed,
comprehensive set of industrial policy studies, which were completed after this Project was approved
but which did not lead to a Bank operation.
2.3     At the Government's request, another Bank report reviewed the Malaysian SSE sector. It
identified manufacturing subsectors with apparent growth potential for SSEs, and looked into ways to
improve the effectiveness of SSE assistance. The SSE study led to the design of this Project, aimed
particularly at the Bumiputera SSEs (target group). Besides efficient SSE growth, this Project was
expected to meet other specific NEP objectives, such as geographical dispersion, entrepreneurship
development, poverty alleviation, and reduction of disparities between Bumiputeras and other ethnic
groups.
2.4     SSEs were important employers. Enterprises with 5 to 50 persons provided one third of non-
agricultural employment. They also accounted for almost one third of value added and one quarter of
fixed assets. On the whole, they were no less efficient than medium and large enterprises: The SSEs
trailed the larger units by 31% in labor productivity, but led by 28% in capital productivity. In the
manufacturing sector, total factor productivity was estimated, on average, to be comparable in SSEs and
larger enterprises, albeit with wide variations between subsectors. In terms of growth, however, the



- 2 -
non-agricultural SSE sector lagged behind the medium and large firms. Partly this was due to healthy
growth of SSEs into medium size. Nevertheless, between 1973/74 and 1978, value added had grown
at 12% per annum in the SSE sector but as much at as 19% in the medium and large firm sector. (See
111.9)
2.5     The Bank Report on Malaysia's SSEs pointed to three critical factors that constrained efficient
SSE development. First, policies and incentives were substantially less conducive to SSEs than to larger
firms. Important tax incentives for investment and employment were limited to firms above a certain
size. Products selected for import protection and pioneer status incentives were commonly those
produced by large manufacturers. Bureaucratic complexities made it difficult for SSEs to obtain tariff
exemption or government contracts. Second, support infrastructure was scattered and uncoordinated.
The many Government institutions and programs for technical assistance (TA) and entrepreneurship
training needed consolidation and focus. Third, the supply of financing to SSEs under mandatory
lending targets at artificially low interest rates was described as not the most appropriate and needed
incentive. The interest rates on SSE lending by commercial banks under central bank guidelines were
about 5 percentage points lower than market rates, and burdened the banks with a negative spread.
Special loan programs carried even less interest.
2.6     Commercial banks and finance companies provided 97% of all SSE credit, under these
mandatory guidelines. They rarely gave term credit to SSEs, however. Of the remaining 3% of SSE
Credit, part was provided by Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB), a wholly govermment
owned development bank created in 1974 specifically for promoting bumiputera enterprises. A second
of the five development finance companies was Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad
(MIDF), a private company whose majority of shares were held by state-owned enterprises. It had been
created in the early 1960s but did not focus on SSEs.
3.  Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1     The main objectives of the project were to:
(a) expand and rationalize the TA programs for SSEs, and strengthen the institutions that provided
those programs;
(b) increase the supply of institutional credit, particularly longer term credit which could be
tapped by Bumiputera SSEs; undertake a major institution-building effort for BPMB, the
lending institution aimed at this target group; and expand the SSE lending by MIDF; and
(c) improve the coordination of financial and technical services to these entrepreneurs so that they
receive, in an integrated fashion, the full range of services they need to modernize their
enterprises.
3.2     The project had two broad components: (i) The TA component aimed at overcoming the
qualitative deficiencies in the existing programs and institutions, and at expanding them selectively. (ii)
The credit compone  was to provide 1,100-1,200 subloans through BPMB and MIDF to Bumiputera
sub-borrowers for fixed assets and permanent working capital. Mechanisms were built into the project
design to improve the integration of TA and credit services, and to set up, for the first time, a
comprehensive system for monitoring and evaluating TA.



-3-
4.  Project Design and Organization
4.1     The complexity and scale of the Project components were ambitious but not inappropriate.
The roles and responsibilities of the eight participating agencies (PAs) were by and large clearly defined
and understood by all relevant parties, although implementation was at times affected by frequent
institutional and staffing changes, or by budgetary constraints. The Project was innovative in that it was
the first cooperation in the form of an industrial lending operation between the Government and the
Bank for a very long time. In the specific country context, the strengthening of industrial and financial
sector policies that influenced SSE development was not addressed by the Project itself. Its documents
referred only to studies on industrial policies and development finance companies which were
undertaken subsequently by the Bank and UNDP.
4.2     The eight PAs involved in the Project included one coordinating agency, five agencies that
provided TA, and two that supplied institutional credit. The first PA, in charge of implementing the
Project, was the Small Enterprise Division (SED) of the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI). Of the
five TA agencies, two offered managerial assistance, mostly through training. These two agencies were
the National Productivity Center (NPC) and the Malaysian Entrepreneurial Development Center at
Majlis Amanah Rakyat (MEDEC/MARA), with the latter dealing exclusively with new and potential
entrepreneurs. The remaining three TA agencies offered sector specific TA, mostly for strengthening
technological capabilities: The Food Technology Division of Malaysian Agricultural Research and
Development Institute (FTD/MARDI), the Forest Research Institute of Malaysia (FRIM), and the
Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (SIRIM). The two financial PAs, BPMB and
MIDF, made medium- and long-term subloans to individual SSEs for fixed assets and permanent
working capital under the credit component of the Project.
4.3     The Project was designed to support effective rationalization, enhance coordination, and
introduce proper monitoring and evaluating of PAs and of their programs. Closer relations with their
ultimate beneficiaries (SSEs) were seen as critical to Project success as well. Since enunciation of the
NEP in 1971, with its emphasis on poverty alleviation and development of Bumiputera enterprises, as
many as eight ministries and 24 agencies were involved in bringing SSEs into the mainstream of
commerce and industry using a variety of development programs. In recognition of serious gaps and
overlaps, the Government had created in 1981 an interagency Coordinating Council for the Development
of Small Enterprises (CCDSE), whose Secretariat was SED/MTI. Yet, coordination between agencies
at the client level, and between TA agencies and financial institutions, remained weak. Moreover, the
monitoring and evaluation of TA remained fragmentary. Under the Project, the selected PAs formed
an Action Committee for Small Enterprises Development Project to discuss the status of individual
clients and coordinate their work. This committee was headed by BPMB, which also provided its
Secretariat. In addition, SED/MTI appointed a Project Coordinator to act as the link between this
micro-level Action Committee and the macro-level CCDSE. SED/MTI was also meant to install, with
consultant assistance, a computerized monitoring and evaluation system for TA to SSEs.
4.4    In the credit component, two features became particularly important:  Its restriction to
Bumiputera sub-borrowers, and its interest rates which were initially above the mandated rates of SSE
lending. Initially, the subloans were indeed available only to Bumiputera enterprises with no more than
M$300,000 capital. The Government accepted bearing the foreign exchange and the variable interest
rate risks under the Bank loan. It agreed to relend the credit component to BPMB and MIDF at a fixed
interest rate of 7.3% per annum (p.a.) for periods of 15 years (including 3 years of grace). BPMB and
MIDF were required to onlend the funds in local currency to their sub-borrowers at lending rates
ranging initially from 9 % to more than 11 %, depending upon the subloan size. Market interest rates



-4 -
at the time were slightly higher than 11 %, and the rates mandated by the central bank (Bank Negara)
for SSE credit were less than 9%. BPMB and MIDF were expected to have spreads of 5.5% and 2.0%
respectively. The free limit was M$400,000, and initially the maximum subloan size was limited to
M$750,000. For subloans below the free limit, Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) were used, and
Special Accounts were initially established in US dollars for obtaining reimbursements for all subloans;
subsequently, these accounts were maintained in the fully convertible Malaysian Ringits (M$). The TA
component was made available as a budgetary grant to SED/MTI, NPC, MEDEC/MARA,
FTD/MARDI, FRIM and SIRIM, and as interest free loans to BPMB and MIDF.
5.  Project Implementation
5.1     Critical Variances in Project Implementation. The Project's implementation, as reflected by
the divergence between the cumulative estimated and actual disbursements, remained very slow until
the middle of 1988. Eventually over two-fifths of the loan amount was canceled (see 111.3). The
commitments and disbursements for the credit component were slow in picking up momentum, and the
final date for submission of subprojects was extended thrice, from December 31, 1987 to December 31,
1988 and December 31, 1989, and finally to June 30, 1990. Moreover, access to subloans was
extended to non-Bumiputera enterprises, and the ceiling on eligible firms' equity was raised fivefold.
MIDF in particular did not expand its SSE lending to the extent expected. Some TA sub-components
were slow in getting started, and some portions were never sufficiently implemented. For instance,
BPMB did not hire a development banking advisor earmarked for two years under the Project, and the
computerized TA monitoring system at SED/MTI is still not in place.
5.2     Unforeseen Factors Affecting Proiect Implementation. During the first two years of the
Project's implementation (i.e., 1985 and 1986) the Malaysian economy was hit hard by recession: the
national income per capita fell by 6.5% and 11.2% successively. The immediate cause was a collapse
in the prices for Malaysia's major exports of natural resources. This was exacerbated by the collapse
of the overheated real estate market. Since an analysis of,historical post-war commodity prices suggests
that the probability of a shock of such magnitude occurring is quite high (one year out of three), it could
have been possible for the Bank and the Government to foresee the recession. The lackluster investment
climate in Malaysia adversely affected the ability and motivation of the target group, i.e., Bumiputera
SSEs, to come up with financially sound and economically viable subprojects. The recession not only
reduced credit demand by SSEs but also led to a shortage of counterpart funds. Hence, Project
implementation was not much accelerated by the Bank's positive response to the Government's request
(in 1984) to allow 50% of the expenditures to be financed under the Project, instead of 35% in
accordance with the country-specific Bank guidelines for Malaysia. (See 111.2)
5.3     The recession also led the Government to reduce interest rates to ameliorate the economic
situation. Mandatory interest rates applying to SSE loans were hence reduced further beneath the
stipulated onlending rates under the Project. Moreover, when the Malaysian investment environment
and credit demand finally recovered, special credit funds for the target group were available at much
lower interest rates than the rates under the Project. The most important of these special funds were
the New Investment Fund (NIF) and, somewhat later, the ASEAN Japan Development Fund (AJDF).
The Bank's funds were not competitive.
5.4     The recruitment of consultants was affected by budgetary constraints that were also the result
of recession. Recruitment was also slowed down by consultants' liability to pay the Malaysian
corporate or income tax, and by the opinion that consultant fees were too high, though they partly
resulted from the devaluation of US$ vis-a-vis German DM.



-5 -
5.5     Corrective Actions/Decisions Taken that Affected Project Implementation. The Government,
in concurrence with the Bank, took several corrective measures, some of which required amendments
to the loan agreement, to allow competition on more equal basis with the special funds such as NIF.
These measures widened the field of eligible sub-borrowers, and softened the credit terms. (a) The
Government expanded, in July 1986, the scope of the target group to include non-Bumiputera
applicants. (b) It enlarged, also in July 1986, the owner's equity base from the original M$300,000
to M$750,000, and further to M$1,500,000 in February 1988. Even in US$ terms, this was more than
a four fold increase. (c) It doubled the subloan limit from M$750,000 to M$1,500,000. (d) It reduced
the relending rate to 5.0% from the original 7.3% so that BPMB and MIDF could onlend to sub-
borrowers at 7.75% (instead of the earlier agreed rates ranging from 9% to more than 11%).
6.  Project Results
6.1     Project Objectives. On the whole, the particular objectives of the Project were met, but due
to the narrow definition of these objectives the impact on the SSE sector at large was limited. The
Project managed to strengthen TA for SSEs through strengthening selected agencies and through some
integration of technical and financial services. The Project also had partial success in strengthening the
supply of term credit, although MIDF substituted the Project for other sources of funds without
substantially increasing its SSE lending. Through the TA agencies and the credit line, the Project
contributed to geographically dispersing industry, enhancing Bumiputera entrepreneurship, creating
employment and thus reducing poverty, and upgrading the efficiency of a great many SSEs.
Strengthening of participating DFCs was partially successfully as well. MIDF solidified its operations
and portfolio but did so largely independent of the Project. Its involvement had a positive impact on
best practices in SSE term lending. BPMB implemented a number of reforms in its operations with
support by consultants and training under the Project. BPMB has still to complete its restructuring,
though, and has been incurring substantial arrears on subloans, which will likely lead to a negative
margin of BPMB on its first round of sub-lending of the Loan funds. The salient features of the
accomplishments or impact of the Project, including variances between planned and actual results, are
summarized below (paras. 6.2-6.5).
6.2     While the specific goals of the Project were mostly attained, more progress could arguably
have been achieved towards the wider purpose of strengthening the SSE sector if the Project itself had
addressed some of the fundamental policy issues. The Bank's SSE Report of 1981 had emphasized that
the first priority should be to remove unfavorable features of the incentive and policy framework; that
special attention should be paid to improving the specific framework within which commercial banks
lent to SSEs; and that TA efforts needed to be pruned and consolidated rather than expanded. Data on
SSEs is not available to the Bank since the industrial census of 1981, because the surveys since then
have been excluding most SSEs. Industrial subsector studies executed in 1989-90 by the Bank showed
still many of the problems identified in 1981, though, such as inefficiency of SSEs in areas sheltered
too long by import protection; lack of linkages with large firms; under-development of small-scale metal
and engineering industries; shortage of institutional support for export marketing; and a widespread
attitude of relying on subsidized credit. It was not until 1990 that the Government set out to develop
a specific and coherent SSE policy package to rationalize the role of the three dozen agencies involved
in the sector, strengthen linkages between SSEs and larger firms, remove policy obstacles, and reorient
incentives. Bank Negara has in 1991 lifted its interest rate ceiling and volume targets for SSE lending
by commercial banks. The Government's objective now is the development of dynamic SSEs capable
of supporting larger-scale industry through efficient linkages, rather than the rapid multiplication of
SSEs for the reduction of poverty or ethnic imbalances.



-6 -
6.3       Technical Assistance to SSEs.  The Project sought to strengthen quite a number of PAs
involved in different forms of technical support for SSEs. The original estimate of project cost for these
five PAs was M$16.7 million, while the actual project cost was M$14.2 million (85%). Of these actual
cost, 83% was spent on hardware (M$8.4 million civil works, and M$3.4 million for equipment and
vehicles), and 17% on consultants (M$1.5 million) and skills development (M$1.0 million).
Expenditures on hardware reached 94% of the original estimate, whereas expenditures on consultants
and training reached only 62%. The five technical PAs together received 67 person-months of
consultancy, and  sent staff to  77  fellowships/overseas training  programs.   Among  the  PAs,
FTD/MARDI had the largest TA budget under the Project and it even exceeded the original estimates
by 21 % due largely to cost overruns on civil works. NPC, MEDEC/MARA, and SIRIM  used most
of their planned TA funds. FRIM spent only 37% of the amount estimated, as it scaled down its civil
works and used few consultants. (See III.6.1-6.4)
Table 1: SERVICES BY PARTICIPATING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AGENCIES, 1985-1990/a
FRIM             MARDI            SIRIM            NPC          MEDBC
Small Enterprise   Food Technology   Technology       Bumiputera        Ettire
Unit           Division        Transfer Div.    Services Div.   O   q xi*
Training Seminars/Courses (in part estimated)
Number of Seminars/Courses            23                250              41              1,000            58
Months of Seminars/Courses            55                125              40               250            125
Number of Participants                325              5,000           1,000             16,000          4
Personmonthsof Participation          800              2,500           1,000             3,200          333)
Lectures                                30               n.a.              70               n.a.           ILL
Guidelines, Manuals, etc. Developed      9               n.a.            n.a.               n.a.           na.
Brief Enquiries                        }                25,000 Ic         650               n.a.           na.
Consultancy (number of enterprises)    } 850              550             570 /d             50 /c         na.
New Products or Machinery Developed      13+             n.a.              70                -
Model Factories and 'Incubated' Factories  22            n.a.              11                -
Professional Staff in 1989              13                70               26 /b             40             25
Project Cost, Actual (MS million)      2.55              9.67            3.52               1.22           121
/a Until 12/1989 for MEDEC, 6/1990 for FRIM and NPC, 9/1990 for MARDI, and 12/90 for SIRIM.
/b Reduced to 13 in early 1990.
/c Estimated on basis of data for 1989 only.
Ld Including technical appraisals, feasibility studies, and extensive assistance for quality improvement (towards ISO 9000).
6.4       Most PAs were able to expand and strengthen their SSE extension services and to develop
close relations with their clients. Among many other services, they gave about 1,400 training courses
for almost 25,000 participants; provided consultancy for some 2,000 enterprises; and undertook almost
6,800 enterprise visits to follow up on training and advisory services. The TA agencies succeeded in
multiplying their development impact by, inter alia, establishing model factories, training trainers, and
writing manuals. They also focused increasingly on raising the productivity of SSEs rather than their
mere number. They flexibly and innovatively adapted their extension services to changing demands.
To further enhance their effectiveness and efficiency, the PAs should now work more on a fee basis,
overcome administrative rigidities, and eventually be run like service-oriented business corporations.
6.5       Institutional Development of Participating DFCs.   The TA  program  included support for
BPMB's transition towards a more commercially oriented financial institution. A comprehensive review



-7 -
of its loan portfolio by Ernst & Whinney Management Consultants was most useful. BPMB's portfolio
status continued to deteriorate until the end of 1986, stabilized around 1987, and has been improving
since 1989. This positive turn around was due in part to corrective measures following the portfolio
review, and in part to the upswing in the economy. BPMB continued to improve its management,
although it used only part of the consultant services that had been envisaged under the Project. For
example, BPMB introduced a new credit monitoring system, increased the accountability of branch and
loan managers, and gave stronger weight to loan supervision and recovery in its organizational
structure. Yet, at end-1990, still as much as 38% of BPMB's outstanding principal was affected by
arrears, and a further 4% was rescheduled. BPMB's subloans under this Project had looked much
better in comparison as long as subloans were still of recent vintage, but by end 1990 the percentage
of subloan principal that was affected by arrears had reached the same 38%  level as the rest of BPMB's
portfolio. BPMB's capitalization has been eroded to a long-term debt equity ratio of 14.0, by end-1990,
through the loan collection problems, and through the reluctance of BPMB's shareholding Government
institutionsto replenish capital lest BPMB undertake yet further restructuring measures (See 111.7.1-7.9).
Table 2: BPMB's LOAN PORTFOLIO STATUS AND DEBT-EQUITY RATIO, 1983-90
(in percent)                              12/S3    12/84   12/8   12/86   12/87   12/88   12189   12/90
Total arrears   * Whole BPMB              10.3    23.0   32.2   41.5   46.8   47.6   42.3    37.0
Principal outstunding * Project /a          -       -       -       8.9    14.8    11.8   13.0   17.7
Principal affected
by arrears     * Whole BPMB               19.3    51.0   51.8   66.4   62.2   58.9   48.3    38.0
Principal outstanding * Project /a          -       -       -      35.4   36.9   26.4   27.3   38.1
Provisions      * Whole BPMB               2.2    na       na      19.6   30.1    38.2   33.8   28.5
Principal outstanding
Total collection rate * Whole BPMB /b      54.5    40.0   35.4   28.9   26.3   24.7   29.5   33.1
(Equiv. annual rate)  Project /a           -       -       -      57.5   56.4   81.8   62.1    68.3
Long-termdebt:equity ratio                 3.8      2.6    3.0    3.4    16.3   16.7    18.4   14.0
/a In the years 1986-88 as of September 30 instead of December 31.
/b Tne collection rates were much higher for active loans, and much lower for foreclosed loans.
6.6       MIDF, like other financial institutions, suffered from the recession, but recovered fast and
further enhanced the solidity of its structure and operations. In early 1989, MIDF's assets did not yet
exceed their level five years earlier. During 1990 and 1991, assets grew by 30%, due largely to equity
investments in 1991, made possible mainly through the inflow of JADF funds. MIDF is undertaking
operations increasingly through subsidiary financial institutions. Loans and leases accounted for 86%
of MIDF's assets in early 1986 but for only 51%  in early 1991. This drop was due also to MIDF's
tendency to hold more funds in deposits, since the recession. Its current ratio improved from 1.3 to
5.4. MIDF's long-term debt:equity ratio is sound (1.3), as is its gross profit as percent of average
assets (3.9% in FY 1991). Stringent quality and collection standards allowed MIDF to reduce, after
the recession, the proportion of principal affected by arrears from 32%  in March 1987 to 8%  in March
1991, and still to have loan loss provisions equal to 6% of the portfolio. Institutional support under
this Project played no major role here; MIDF used only 3% of its originally planned TA budget, and
none of the consultants, under the Project. (See III.8.1-8.8)



-8 -
6.7     Institutional Credit. The credit line disbursed slowly due to competition from subsidized credit
and ethnic eligibility restrictions. On December 31, 1987, the initially planned deadline for subloan
commitments, or more than three years since the opening of the credit line, only 37% of the M$210
million credit line was committed. The reduction of its interest rates in late 1987, and its opening to
non-Bumiputeras, allowed the commitment, finally, of 83% by 1990. There are several reasons for this
slow disbursement. First, the credit line at its original terms was not competitive with SSE credit that
was dominated in Malaysia by short-term credit from commercial banks with mandatory interest ceilings
and volume floors, and by term credit from special government or donor financed funds at even more
subsidized rates - issues of SSE and financial sector policy that the Project itself did not address.
Second, the Bank had agreed, in 1984, to the Government's request to limit eligibility to SSEs owned
by Bumiputeras, but there were not enough Bumiputera SSEs willing to use the credit line at an
essentially unsubsidized interest rate. Use of the credit line picked up only when the credit was opened
to all other ethnic groups and to somewhat larger enterprises. In the years since 1987, non-Bumiputeras
accounted for 63% of the amount of net approvals (BPMB 58%, MIDF 86%). Bumiputeras constituted
the majority of sub-borrowers (630 out of 959, since 1984), but their subloans were, on average, quite
small (M$ 125,000, vis-a-vis M$288,000 for non-Bumiputeras) (see lll.6.6). The Project was successful
in geographically spreading subloans throughout the country, albeit expectedly with some concentration
in the main industrial centers (Selangor, Johor, Penang). It succeeded also in providing much of the
credit (almost one third) to new establishments. Although all non-agricultural SSEs were eligible, the
prioritized manufacturing sector received 80% of the credit (see III.6.7). As to the two DFCs, BPMB
used 95% (M$142.3 million) of its line of credit, but MIDF used only 55% (M$32.9) of its line.
MIDF did not have a large branch network, and it applied stringent quality standards. But while its
general strategy focused on larger projects, its subloans under the Project were smaller on average than
BPMB's.
6.8     A sample of sixty BPMB sub-borrowers (see. III.6.8) suggests that sub-borrowers performed
generally quite well. Between subloan appraisal and end-1990, firms that had borrowed for expansion
or renovation had increased sales by 74%, and newly created firms had reached an average of M$2.7
million in annual sales. Firms borrowing for expansion or renovation had also increased their return
on sales from 5% to 8%, and their return on assets from 7% to 9%. Newly created firms achieved
returns of 6% on both sales and assets, in 1990. However, these figures exclude 12 % of sub-borrowers
in the sample whose subloans had been withdrawn. BPMB sub-borrowers performed less well when
it came to debt service; one third of the subloans (by amount) were non-performing by late 1990.
6.9     A sample of thirty-six MIDF sub-borrowers (see 111.6.8) confirms these observations. Firms
that borrowed for expansion or renovation raised sales through 1990 by 72%, compared with the
situation before their borrowing, and new firms reached a revenue of M$4.7 million, on average. By
end 1990, the assets of expanded or renovated enterprises had grown by more than twice the amnount
of their subloans, and newly created enterprises had built assets worth four times their subloan. The
rates of return of sub-borrowers that expanded or renovated were not boosted by the Project, but newly
created sub-borrowers achieved formidable returns on assets (18%) and sales (5%), in 1990.
6.10    Coordination Among PAs. The Project had assumed that effective coordination of all SSE
programs was of highest importance. The micro-level Action Committee for Small Enterprises
Development Project did meet on a fairly regular basis. It provided a forum for the exchange of ideas
on the design and delivery of extension services.  It also allowed to review and resolve issues
concerning individual Project beneficiaries. The original idea that several PAs would provide packages
of management training, technical consultancy, and subloans, respectively, to the same individual SSEs
did not often materialize. It seems that most SSEs needed assistance of only one particular kind, and



9-
hence from only one PA. The second coordinating unit was SED at the Ministry of Industry. It
utilized M$0.7 million TA funds (68% of estimate), mainly to send staff for overseas training and to
use 37 person-months of consultancy for establishing a monitoring and evaluation system. At credit
closing, this computerized system was still not in place because of protracted difficulties with
consultants. SED/MTI did not have data on individual beneficiaries to undertake systematic monitoring
or evaluation. Generally, SED could not fully maintain its momentum due to its being moved twice
between ministries, downgraded from a division to a section, and reduced in staff size.
7.  Proiect Sustainability
7.1     The prospects for sustained operation of the TA and long-term credit programs supported by
the Project are encouraging. Largely due to effective institution-building under the Project, the TA
agencies are now better equipped with qualified staff, physical infrastructure, and effective management
systems to assist the particular problems of SSEs. While not all programs created under the Project will
be sustained, effective extension and training services could be ensured if the institutions maintain their
drive towards flexibility, client orientation, and continuous innovation of services. This required,
however, that SSE extension services gain higher recognition within the three research institutes (FRIM,
MARDI, SIRIM) that have discouraged or withdrawn SSE extension staff. It also requires sufficient
budget to continue updating skills (through exhibition visits, secondment to consulting firms, etc.) and
equipment (for demonstration, product development, etc.). The sustainability of efficient SSE lending
by MIDF and BPMB could be affected by MIDF's strategic orientation towards larger projects, and by
weaknesses in BPMB's financial structure, but is nonetheless on the whole promising.
8. Bank Performance
8.1     The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The Project identification was preceded by
a detailed study of Malaysia's SSE sector. The design addressed appropriately the needs of SSEs for
institutional support but did not address much the industrial and credit policies affecting SSEs. Dialogue
during Project implementation had little impact on such key policies. Supervision was largely adequate
but could not enforce all covenants, e.g., timely project audits and BPMB's debt-equity ratio (see III.4).
Due to the extended period of the Project, supervision was apparently too infrequent for more active
collaboration that PAs sought with the Bank. The documents were well maintained (see III.5). In
retrospect, the Bank could have anticipated (i) the imminent economic recession; (ii) Malaysia's socio-
political environment leading to continued subsidization of credit to Bumiputera SSEs; and (iii) the
problems of Government controlled DFCs to rigorously approve and collect credit from the target
group. Had the Bank had not concurred with the Government to restrict eligibility to Bumiputera SSEs,
though, the Project would probably not have been agreed upon, and a fruitful opportunity to support
SSE development would have been missed.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1     The Government, and particularly SED, had assigned a high priority to the Project, continued
to monitor its progress, and initiated various measures to remove constraints to implementation.
Progress and audit reports were initially quite timely, and the early progress reports had appropriate
analytical contents. The Project coordination and reporting to the Bank suffered increasingly, however,
from the transfer of SED back and forth of the Ministry of Trade and Industry, and its downgrading
to section level. Very recently, the Government has also been addressing key policy constraints that
impaired on SSE development. For instance, it finally lifted the interest rate guidelines for SSE loans
so as to make SSE lending more attractive to banks that can henceforth price their cost and risk of such



- 10 -
lending; it issued a comprehensive action plan for industrial technology development that will also
strengthen TA for SSEs; and it is increasingly urging the SSE support institutions to become more
demand-driven and financially self-supporting.
9.2     The overall performance of the five PAs for TA and entrepreneurship development was very
satisfactory. They used the opportunity to strengthen skills and facilities, and demonstrated much
persistence, initiative, and creativity in improving and expanding their services. Of the two financial
PAs, MIDF's participation in the Project remained nominal but it continued to be a financially sound
and well managed DFC. BPMB's institutional development made significant progress towards more
effective organization but left room for improvement. BPMB's loan portfolio quality and debt:equity
ratio continue to cause concern about its financial stability and prudent policy. Rectification of this
problem, e.g. through the conversion of its government debt into equity and the concurrent
acknowledgment of a long-term plan for continued strengthening, should not be delayed further. Last
but not least, most sub-borrowers seemed to make efficient use of their subloans. They have been
reporting encouraging rates of growth and profit, after receiving their subloans. Disappointing, though,
is the high percentage of subloan arrears.
10. Project Relationship
10.1    From Project identification to Project completion, PAs and the Government maintained
amicable and effective working relationships with the Bank. The Project was successfully completed
despite its moderate management and financial problems, delays in audits and progress reports, and the
cancellation of part of the Loan. Bank supervision could not, however, influence factors that led to
non-competitiveness of its funds, and policies that impaired sub-borrowers' development but were not
addressed by the Project. Since this was the Bank's first industrial sector project in Malaysia after
many years, it contributed significantly to the understanding among all the parties involved about each
other's modus operandi and practical constraints.
11. Consulting Services
11.1    The consultants provided valuable assistance to the PAs.  MEDEC/MARA, NPC, and
FTD/MARDI almost fully used their TA funds earmarked for consultancy. At the aggregate level, only
50% of the original budget of M$4.5 million was spent. This was due in part to doubts by the recipient
institutions about the superiority of consultants expertise in comparison to their own staff, and to the
credit rather than grant nature of the TA funds. (See 111.6.3)
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1    The Loan Agreement and Project Agreements were adequate in view of project objectives.
The SAR provided a useful framework for reviewing project implementation. More consolidated
tabulations of expenditures planned by year, agency, and type could have further facilitated supervision.
Information on the ongoing project, as stored in the Project File, should have been more
comprehensive. The quarterly progress reports provided adequate accounting and other numerical
information about the use of the TA funds. They could have shed more light on qualitative aspects of
implementation, problems, and results, though. Regular data on sub-borrowers by ethnic group,
location, and size would have been useful, too. More importantly, neither the Bank nor SED/MTI
obtained statistical data on the performance of subprojects after their appraisal, except for a small
sample requested for this completion report. Finally, the Bank has not yet received Project audit reports
beyond 1988, and quarterly reports beyond 6/1989.



- 11 -
13. Lessons Learned
13.1    The main lessons learned or again confirmed, with implications to other projects, are
summarized below:
(i) the on-lending interest rate under a Bank project should be market oriented and demand
driven, and understanding needs to be reached with the Government that the same target group
not be offered comparable credit at below-market rates;
(ii) when estimating demand for a line of credit, the Bank should take into account the possibility
of recession and other significant changes from the trends at the time of appraisal;
(iii) development banks, be they private or state owned, should not compromise the prerogative
of strict discipline in project appraisal and credit collection even in pursuit of affirmative
action;
(iv) where the policy framework is recognized as critical for strengthening industrial enterprises
it should be addressed by the Government in connection with the project;
(v) when designing a project that is meant to lay the foundation for collaboration on future
projects, the problems of below-market interest rates and subsidized credit schemes should not
be skirted but rather addressed, so as to prepare the ground for effective lending.



- 12 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Background
1.1     The project was successfully completed with the cooperation of all the agencies involved in
implementing it. The overall performance was satisfactory except for some minor issues that arose
during the duration of the project. But this did not deter the PAs and the Government to have an
effective working relationship with the Bank and among themselves to ensure the success of the project.
The loan was signed at a time when the economy was heading towards a recession. The anti-
recessionary measures undertaken by the Government amongst which included the provision of
concessional funding for the small-scale industrial enterprises were considered essential in uplifting the
economy out of the throes of recession. However, it should be noted that when the Government first
introduced the New Investment Fund (NIF) in September 1985, the interest rate charged was
comparable to those charged under the Small-Scale Enterprise (SSE) Project. The interest rate
differential only increased in early 1987 when NIF rate went down to 9% in February and 7.7% in
June, 1987. Nonetheless, it should also be noted that when the SSE project was opened to the Non-
Bumiputera, disbursements on the loan picked up significantly.
2. Comments on Part I of the Project Completion Reo  1'
2.1 The World Bank's analysis and assessment of the scheme in the Part I is generally agreeable i.e.
its evaluation of the objectives, implementation and the result. However there are comments and
elaboration on some of the issues raised in the Part I of the Report. They are as follows:
a. Comments by Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad
(i) Ouality of BPMB SSE Subloan Portfolio (paras. 6.1 & 6.5)
Financing Bumiputera entrepreneurs who lack exposure in managing industrial concerns
necessarily carries more risks and this will consequently be reflected in higher arrears and a
weaker loan portfolio. In the case of SSE Project the problem was compounded by the
1985/86 recession. BPMB felt duty-bound, as a DFI, to promote investment even more
vigorously and ensure a continuing stream of new Bumiputera establishments. The better
quality Bumiputera borrowers, as usual, were drawn away be commercial banks whose
character and collateral-based lending procedures were much easier on eligible borrowers as
these commercial banks were dispensing subsidized credit at below SSE rates.  (The
subsequent lowering of the SSE lending rate to 7.75% helped to overcome some of the
disadvantages). The collection rate for the SSE sub-loans had improved from 62.1 % in 1989
to 68.3% in 1990. The principal affected by arrears for the whole BPMB portfolio had
steadily declined (improved) from 66.4% in 1986 to 38.0% in 1990.
(ii) BPMB Debt-Equity Ratio of 14:1 as at 31/12/1990 (para. 6.5)
BPMB turned -around in 1989 and as at year end 1990 its equity had increased to $42.5
million. The external auditor's draft accounts for year end 1991 shows that BPMB's equity
has further strengthened to $87.0 million and the debt-equity ration has improved to 8:4:1.
The Borrower indicated also some inaccuracies in Part III of the Report; corrections were
made in Part IIn accordingly.



- 13 -
(iii) BPMB Sub-borrowers had not been servicing the sub-loans although they had been performing
well (para. 9.2)
Since the Loan Portfolio Review in 1987. BPMB has strengthened its loan supervision
function both in terms of organization and procedures. It is most unlikely that borrowers who
are in a position to service their loans are allowed to be delinquent in their repayment.
(iv) BPMB compromised strict discipline in Project Appraisal and Credit Collection (para. 13.1
Explanation on points (a) and (c) above are of relevance here. While BPMB admits that its
SSE Portfolio is weaker in comparison with MIDF's, it must be seen in the context of the role
of BPMB as a DFI for creating and upgrading Bumiputera entrepreneurs in the industrial
sector. BPMB's approval and utilization of the SSE Funds exceeded those of MIDF both in
absolute and proportionate terms.
(v) BPMB did not appoint a Development Banking Advisor (para. 5. 1)
BPMB had appointed two out of three consultant planned and agreed for the SSE Project.
BPMB had as early as April 1985 began the search for a development banking advisor.
However, they were unable to find a suitably qualified and experienced candidate willing to
accept the amount of remuneration that BPMB could afford to pay. The World Bank Missions
had been kept regularly informed of the efforts BPMB had made and the problems they faced.
b. Comments by MIDF
(i) The Function of MIDF
Para. 2.6 states: a second of the five ..... was Malaysian Industrial Development Finance
Berhad (MIDF) ...... It had been created in the early 1960s but did not focus on SSEs. Para.
3.2 states: (ii) The credit component was to provide 1,100 - 1,200 sub-loans through BPMB
and MIDF to Bumiputera sub-borrowers for fixed assets and permanent working capital.
MIDF was essentially created to provide financial support to industrial projects regardless of
size and equity ownership. Until recently about 80% in number and about 40% in value were
loans given to business now categorized as small and medium industries. Only lately (after
the SSE programme expired) has MIDF given bigger loans to larger customers, to boost the
loan portfolio, to widen the development role and the utilize funds available. Regarding
Bumiputera SMIs, MIDF followed the New Economic Policy aspirations by setting-up a
Bumiputera Business Development Unit to promote and develop Bumiputera involvement in
manufacturing venture; MIDF even provided very small loans at one stage (during the SSE
programmes). MIDF only provide fixed terms loans at fixed interest rates to purchase fixed
assets (land and buildings, plant and machinery) for the industrial project. MIDF does not
provide working capital loan. During the implementation of the SSE programme, only BPMB
provides working capital loan under the programme. The working capital requirements for
sub-borrowers under MIDF were arranged with commercial banks.
c. Comments by the Small and Medium Industries Section. Ministry of
International Trade and Industry
(i) SED's role was to coordinate and monitor the financial and technical agencies involved under
the project. It also monitors the progress of the loan given to entrepreneurs. Reimbursement



- 14 -
applications of the technical agencies were forwarded to the World Bank through SED. SED
also prepared quarterly progress report of the project.
(ii) The coordination and monitoring was mainly done through the Management and Technical
Committee of the World Bank Project. SED was the Secretariat of this Committee. Meetings
were held on a regular basis where the status of loans and various issues pertaining to the
development of small scale industries were discussed. The Treasury contributed significantly
in assisting SED during the course of the project. SED also coordinated the World Bank
Mission's Visits.
(iii) There were efforts to establish a computer based system for the project. But the proposed
computer based system did not materialize. The reason being the consultant who was engaged
to do the job was unable to complete the job. Data on individual beneficiaries were available
only on documents.
(iv) Coordination among TA agencies was generally satisfactory. But there were instances where
submission of reports were delayed due to administrative problems. This subsequently caused
some delay in coordination and preparation of reports by SED to the World Bank. Generally,
funds allotted to the respective agencies were well utilized. Funds which were underutilized
were channelled to other agencies which required more funds. Technical assistance provided
by the technical agencies to the entrepreneurs was also found to be useful.
d. Comments by MEDEC
(i) In part I of the PCR it is stated Malaysian Entrepreneurs Development Centre (MEDEC) is
a Department in Majlis Amanah Rakyat (MARA). MEDEC is actually a centre for specialized
learning in Entrepreneurship Development under the auspices of Institut Teknologi (TM).
MEDEC should therefore be addressed as MEDEC/ITM instead of MEDEC/MARA.
(ii) In para. 11.1, it was indicated that MEDEC and other TA agencies had almost fully utilized
their fund earmarked for consultancy.  MEDEC in general is not satisfied with the
performance of the Small Business Training Consultant. However, the Small Business
Consultancy consultant did complete his job satisfactorily.
3. The World Bank's Performance during the Evolution and Implementation of the
Project. and Lessons Learned
3.1     The World Bank has taken initiative to make the programme successful as planned by making
regular visits to Malaysia during the implementation period of the project. The World Bank Missions
provided a forum for the exchange of viewpoints between the Bank and the financial and technical
agencies. Various advice offered by the Bank were found to be useful in the implementation of the
project.
3.2     The Bank has provided useful and helpful feedbacks through their aide-memoire after every
mission made by them. These proved to be a useful guide to the financial and technical agencies
involved in the project. The Bank has also advised the agencies involved in this project on consultants.
3.3     Officers of the World Bank had helped BPMB sharpen its operations policies and formulate
the 5 year operating strategies (1984-1988). The World Bank's reporting formats and requirements



- 15 -
were adopted by BPMB and now form part of BPMB's reporting to management. In addition, BPMB
could draw from the World Bank's wealth of experience in various aspects of development financing.
3.4     Among the lessons learned are that the Project Design had not incorporated sufficient
'controls' to ensure the integration of the technical assistance and credit components. This has resulted
in varying degrees of commitment to the Project and independent decisions among the participating
agencies. DFIs would have to bear the credit risks throughout the project. It is suggested also that both
technical assistance and credit components could be entrusted to a single agency. There is a need to
develop better ways of measuring the effectiveness of technical assistance. Rather than measuring the
amount of capital expenditure incurred, number of courses held or manhours of consultancy, it would
be more relevant and meaningful to measure the impact of technical assistance of the performance of
assisted units. Relevant beneficial lessons on the implementation and coordination of the overall project
was also acquired from the Bank.
4. The Borrower's Performance during the Evolution and Implementation of the
Proiect. and Lessons Learned
4.1     The SED/MTI being the coordinating and implementation body of the project had undertaken
the task of coordinating and monitoring the project so as to ensure the successful completion of the
project. It had held regular meetings among the financial and technical agencies where issues are
brought out and discussed amicably. It also prepared reimbursement applications and audit reports of
technical agencies to the World Bank. Quarterly consolidated reports for the World Bank to send
officers for training and also to procure necessary equipments which were essential for the progress of
the project.
4.2     BPMB embarked upon the strengthening of its organization and improving its policies and
procedures. It was able to identify in a timely manner certain obstacle to the implementation of the
Project and managed to bring up the issues to the Government and the World Bank for resolution.
Initiatives on the part of the BPMB had resulted in the downward revision of the SSE lending rate to
a more competitive level and the opening up of the Fund to SSEs with larger paid-up capital.
4.3     Although MIDF had only financed 206 projects (below the target), its performance is
considered satisfactory. MIDF had carried out intensive and extensive promotion covering all the
Bumiputera's establishments throughout Peninsular Malaysia. Through the promotion efforts, the basic
problems of SSE have been identified and their actual needs have been recognized. SSE needs support
not only in financial and operation (management and technical) but also in marketing.
4.4     As a result of the project, Technical Agencies (such as NPC, MARDI, FRIM, MEDEC and
SIRIM) had strengthened their capabilities in providing technical support to the SSE's. They are better
equipped, have more qualified staff and have improved physical infrastructure.
4.5     Lessons learnt during the duration of the project are that there were difficulties and problems
in coordinating and integrating efforts of TAs to assist SSEs. Wider publicity and greater awareness
by the target groups could have stimulated demand for both credit and technical assistance.



- 16 -
5. The Effectiveness of the Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
5.1     Generally, the financial institutions and technical agencies involved in the project had a very
cordial relationship with the Bank. Various differences in opinion in the scheme have been solved
amicably.
5.2     BPMB had presented some specific and additional comments as follows:
(i) World Bank would have to provide for more guidance to BPMB in strengthening various
aspects of management and operations.
(ii) There were some difference in opinion between BPMB and the World Bank and that certain
loan covenants e.g. the appointment of a Development Banking Advisor, have to this day not
been complied with.
(iii) BPMB had, on occasions, experienced delays in receiving reimbursements from the World
Bank and certain queries had not been satisfactorily answered.



- 17 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Title                   Purpose                  approval      Status
Development             To provide capital for            1986       Closing
Finance Project         medium and large-scale                       12/1991
subprojects in the
private sector mainly in
manufacturing but also
transportation and agro-
industries.
2. Proiect Timetable
Date              Date               Date
Item        planned            revised             actual
Identification         December 1979                          October 1-14, 1982
Project Brief          December 1981                          September 27. 1983
Preparation            April 1982         October 1982        February 6-18, 1983
Appraisal Mission      November 1982      November 1983       January 9-31, 1984
Loan Negotiations      May 1984           July 23, 1984       August 20-23, 1984
Board Approval         June 1984          Sept. 18, 1984      October 16, 1984
Loan Signature         Jan. 11, 1985            -             January 11, 1985
Loan Effectiveness    April 16, 1985    June 12, 1985         April 16, 1985
Loan Closing           June 30, 1990            -             June 30, 1990
Project Completion    June 30, 1989       October 31, 1990   November 30, 1990



- 18 -
3. Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USs million)
June   June   June   June   June   June   June
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Appraisal estimate         2.80  17.60  34.40  44.60  49.20  52.10  52.10
Actual                     3.89   5.92   6.73  10.24  17.49  27.39  29.78/a
Actual as % of
estimate               138.9   33.6   19.6   23.0   35.5   52.6   57.2
Date of final
disbursement                        November 30, 1990
/a Loan amount of US$0.14 million was cancelled on May 20, 1987 and
Us$22.17 million was cancelled on December 3, 1990.



- 19 -
4. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant                      Subject                         Compliance                      Status
Loan Agreement
3.02(c)   Borrower, MIDF, BPMB and the Bank shall               Annual       Last review was in 3/89; subsequent review was
annually review onlending interest rates.                          not necessary.
3.03      Borrower shatl employ through the Participating    6/30/85         Only one consultant was empLoyed,though
Agencies consultants and experts.                                  subsequently most were empLoyed.
3.05(b)   Borrower shall maintain records and regularly         Quarterly   Quarterly report beyond 6/89 not received.
furnish information to the Bank.
3.05(d)   Borrower shall furnish project conpletion             12/31/90    Report is expected by 3/31/1992.
report to the Bank within six months of
the closing date.
3.06      Borrower shall guarantee BPMB's medium-               Not appli-  BPMB had no such borrowings.
and long-term borrowings.                             cable
3.07      Borrower to furnish annually report on project        Starting    1989 and 1990 reports not received.
coordination and progress.                            12/31/85
annually
4.02 (c)  Borrower to furnish to the Bank audited               Annual       Audited reports were delayed due to
financial statements (including opinion                            inadequate coordination among PAs;
on statement of expenditures) within six months                    1989 and 1990 audit report not
of end of fiscal year.                                             received despite repeated requests.
4.03      Borrower to provide BPMB financial support to         Whenever    As a result of creating Large provisions
maintain BPMB's debt:equity ratio of maximum          appli-       following the portfolio review, the ratio
5:1.                                                  cable        continued to be high, more than 12:1 till
12/90. Goverrvnent considered debt-equity
conversion to lower the ratio and asked BPMB
to prepare a business plan.
BPMB Project Agreement
3.02(b)   Audited financial statements to be furnished to    Annual          12/90 audit report received.
the Bank within 6 months of end of fiscal year
(December 31).
3.02(c)   BPMB to supply periodic information to                Quarterly   Quarterly progress reports through 9/91
the Bank.                                                          received.
3.03      BPMB not to incur debt if debt/equity                 Whenever    See comment above under 4.03 Loan Agreement.
ratio exceeds 5:1.                                    appli-
cable
MIDF Proiect Agreement
3.02(b)   Audited financial statements to be furnished to    Annual          3/91 audit report received.
the Bank within 6 months of end of fiscal year
(March 31).
3.02(c)   MIDF to supply periodic information to                Quarterly   Quarterly progress reports through 9/91
the Bank.                                                          received.



- 20 -
5. Use of Bank Resources
a. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Project Cycle                                          Planned   Revised   Final                       Comments
Through appraisal                                        -                -          168.3               -
Appraisal through
Board approval                                         -                -             9.2              -
Board approval through
effectiveness                                          -                -            18.5              -
Supervision                                              -                -           83.8               -
Total                                            =                           279.8
b. Missions
SpeciaLi-          Performance
Stage of                           Month/       No. of         Days in           zation              rating           Types of
Project Cycle                         year         persons        fieLd           represented          statusLa         probLemsLb
Through appraisaL                     Jan 84          25             133          Dev. Finance
Tech. Assist.
Appraisal through                                                                 Dev. Finance
Board approval                      Oct 84            5              17          Economist
Board approval through
effectiveness                       Apr 85            -               -                 -
Supervision                          Mar 85            2              14                 Ic               2               M,F
Oct 85           2              12                 Lk               2               M,F
Apr 86           4              12                 /c               2               M,F
Feb 87           2              15                 L                2              M, F
Nov 87           3              17                 Xc               2               M, F
Jun 88           2               6                /C                2              M,F
Mar 89           2               7                 /c               2               M,F
Oct 89           2              14                 L2 2                             M,F
Oct 90           2              11                 2C               2               M,F
Completion                            Jun 91           1               4          Economist               -
/a  Status:  2 = Moderate problems
Lb  Type of Problems:  M = Management, F = FinanciaL
/ ALL supervision mission comprised of at leat one economist and one development finance speciaList.



- 21 -
6.1 Overall Allocation and Use of TA Funds (Prolect Costs by End Use and PAs)
(MS '000)
Equipment                           Training
PAs/End Use                               Civil                and            Consultation         and
works             vehicles          and advisors      fellowships       TotaL
OriginaL Project
Estimates
SED/MTI                                        -                  64                   750          234            1,048
NPC                                            -                 265                   600          379            1,244
MEDEC/MARA                                     -                 708                   500          252            1,460
FTD/MARDI                                 3,435               2,605                    500           80            6,620
FRIM                                       1,738               1,472                   750          226           4,186
SIRIM                                      1,865                 629                     -          736            3,230
BPMB                                           -               1,744                 1,125           78            2,947
MIDF                                           -                   -                   330          280              610
Total                                7.038               7.487                 4.555         2.265          21.345
Revised Project Estimates
SED/MTI                                        -                  99                   715          234            1,048
NPC                                          270                 249                   451          274            1,244
MEDEC/KARA                                     -                 654                   554          252            1,460
FTD/MARDI                                 5,095               2,245                    500           80            7,920
FRIN                                         664               1,139                   750          182            2,735
SIRIM                                      1,894                 630                     -          730            3,254
BPMB                                           -               1,744                 1,125           78            2,947
MIDF                                           -                 228                     -            -              228
TotaL                                7 923               6.987                 4.096         1.829          20.835
Actual Proiect Costs
SED/MTI                                        -                  86                   432          191              709
NPC                                          285                 212                   422          223            1,142
MEDEC/MARA                                     -                 527                   519          157            1,203
FTD/MARDI                                 6,355               1,196                    407           61           8,019
FRIM                                         420                 857                   112          144            1,533
SIRIM                                      1,327                 588                     -          424            2,339
BPMB                                           -               1,313                   382           78            1,773
MIDF                                                              17                     -             -              17
Total                                8.389               4.794                 2.274         1.278          16.735



- 22 -
6.2 Comoarison of Actual TA Expenditures with Revised and Original Revised Budgets /a
(Ms  '000)
Original         Revised            Actual              Actual Budget                 X of
estimate         estimate         Expenditure      Original          Revised          total
(X)              (X)
Project Costs by End Use
Civil Works                             7,038            7,923              8,389          119.2            105.9            50.2
Equipments and vehicles                 7,487            6,987              4,794           64.0             68.6            28.5
Consultants and advisors                4,555            4,096              2,274           49.9             55.5            13.6
Training and fellowships                2,265            1,829              1,278           56.5             69.9             7.7
Total                            21.345  /b       20.835              16.735          78.3             80.3           100.0
Project Costs by Particioating Agencies
SED/MTI                                 1,048            1,048                 709          67.6             67.6             4.2
NPC                                     1,244            1,244               1,142          91.8             91.8             6.8
MEDEC/MARA                              1,460            1,460               1,203          82.3             82.3             7.1
FTD/MARDI                               6,620            7,920              8,019          121.1            101.2            47.9
FRIM                                    4,186            2,735              1,533           36.6             56.0             9.2
SIRIM                                   3,230            3,254              2,339           72.4             71.9            14.0
BPMB                                    2,947            2,947              1,773           60.1             60.1            10.6
MIDF                                      610              228                  17           2.8              7.5             0.1
Total                            21.345           20.835              16.722          78.3             80.3           100.0
La     The data relate to the project expenditures, of which only 50 percent was reimbursed to PAs.
/b     Project documents included also another, slighly different, estimate totaling 21,959.



- 23 -
6.3 Use of Consultancv/Advisorv Services
PA                  Purpose                 Original Budget         Revised Budget        Actual Use    Actual / Revised
Person-   MS'000    Person-   MS'OOO   Person  MS OOO   Months    Budget
months                months               months               t%)        tX)
SED/MTI   Monitoring and evaluation         24            500       24         715       37     432         154           60
Subcontracting and
procurement                     12           250        -            -                -
NPC       Construction industry              12           250       12
Marketing                         12            250       12   )    451        14     422          58          94
Business Law (Local)               6             50        -
Taxation (Local)                   6             50        -
MEDEC/    SmaLl business management
MARA         training                        12           250       12
SmaLL business                                                       554      21      519         88           94
consuLtancy                     12           250       12    )
FTD/      Mechanical engineering            12            250       12    )    500       22     407          92          81
MARDI     Food engineering                   12           250       12
FRIM /c   Wood, bamboo and rattan
products design and
marketing                       12           250       12
Bamboo and rattan products        12            250       12    )    750       10     112         28           15
Wood products                     12            250       12
SIRIM               -
BPMB      Development banking               24            500       24
Engineering                       24            500      24    )  1,125       30      382          52          34
Mngt.information system            6            125       10
MIDF       Industry experts (six)            12           330        -            -     -          -           -           -
Total               -                      222          4.555      190       4.095      130     2.274        68           55



- 24 -
6.4 Use of Fellowships and Overseas Training
PA          -- Originat Budget --        Revised   ---------- Actual use --------------                     ActuaL ExPenditure
No.   Person    MS'O0    MS'000                   Number                            MS'O00     OriginaL  Revised
months                           '85 '86  '87  '88  '89 '90       Total                  Budget   Budget
(%)       (X)
SED/MTI       6+       21      234         234       -    -    4    3       5     -       12        191          82         82
NPC           18       39      379         274       -    -    4    1       9    7       21         223          59         81
MEDEC          12        -      252        252       6    -    3    2       7    -        18        157          62         62
FTD/MARDI      4        3       80          80       -   /      1    -      -    1        2         61           76         76
FRIM           9       24      226         182       -    5    -  11        -    -       16         144          64         79
SIRIM         25       58      736         730       -    6Lb  3    7       4     -      20        424           58         58
BPMB          12         -      78          78       -    -    -    -       -    -         -         78         100        100
MIDF           14       19      280           -      2    -    -   -        -    -         2          -           0           -
Total    100+    164         2.265       1.829       8    11  15  24   25        8       91      1.278           57          70
la  In-house seminars/workshops were conducted by foreign professors.
Lb  In addition, in-house courses/seminars were conducted by two foreign trainers.



- 25 -
6.5 Approval of Subloans by Participating Financial Institutions
------- TotaL -----------
1984      1985        1986       1987        1988        1989                    Actual     Planned    ActuaL
(Oct-Dec)                                                                                               pLanned
Net Number of Subloans Aporoved by Years
BPMB                32      108        121        253          165         74                        753            880        85%
MIDF                 3       15         42         56           77         13                        206            300        68%
Total            35      123        163        309          242         87                       959   1.100-1.200    80-87%
La
Amount of Net Approvals by Years (MS mi.Lion)
BPMB                 3.4      9.6       11.9       38.7         67.2       11.5                    142.3          150.0        94%
MIDF                 0.1      2.1        5.1        6.3         19.3        0.0                    31.5            60.0        52X
TotaL             3.5    11.7        17.0       45.0         86.5       11.5                   173.8
Net Average Size of Loans Approved by Years (MS '000)
BPMB               106       89         98        153          407        155                        189            170       111%
MIDF                33      140        121        112          251          -                        153            200        76%
TotaL           100      95         104        146          357        132                       181             178       102X
/a  The total number of cLients is lower, due to about 90 follow-on subloans.
L   This figure was provided by MIDF.  It exceeds the sum of the columns due probably to cancellations of approved
amounts since 1989.



- 26 -
6.6 Distribution of Subloans by Target Groups
1984 /a    1985         1986        1987        1988-89Lb      Total   % of            Total      % of
Total         1987-89  1987-89
Ic
Number of Subloans Approved. Net
BPMB  BLuniputera              32         108         112         178         126            556        74             304        62
Non-BLmaiputera           -           -          9          75          113            197       26              188       38
MIDF  Bumiputera                3           15         23          15           18            74        36               33       23
Non-Bumiputera            -           -         19          41           72           132        64              113       77
Total Buniputera               35         123         135         193         144            630       66              337        53
Non-Bumiputera            -           -         28         116          185           329        34              301       47
Amount of Net Amwrovals (MS miLlion)
BPMB  Bumiputera                3.4         9.6        10.4        19.1        29.6           72.1     51               48.7    42
Non-Bumiputera            -           -          1.5        19.7         49.0          70.2      49               68.7    58
MIDF  Butiiputera               0.1         2.1         1.4         0.8         2.6            6.9     22                 3.4     14
Non-Bumiputera            -           -          3.6         5.6         15.4          24.6      78               21.0    86
TotaL sumiputera                3.5        11.7        11.8        19.9        32.2           79.0     45               52.1     37
Non-Bumiputera            -           -          5.1        25.3         64.4          94.8      55               89.7    63
Averace Size of Subloans Approved (MS'ODO)
BPMB  Bumiputera              106          89          93         107         235            130                       160
Non-Bumiputera            -           -        167         263         434            356                        365
MIDF  Bumiputera               33         140          61          53         144             93                        103
Non-BLsniputera           -           -        189         137         214            186                        186
TotaL Bumiputera              100          95         87          103         224            125                       155
Non-Btuniputera           -           -        182         218         348            288                        298
la   October to December only.
Lb   Incomplete data.
L    By beginning 1987, non-bumiputera enterprises had become eligible to subloans.



- 27 -
6.7 Overview of Subvroiects Approved (Net)
---- BPMB -----        ---- MIDF -----    ---- Total ----
Number   Amount        Number    Amount        Number   Amount
MX)       CX)          CX)        CX)          (M)        MX)
Target Group (Net Approvals)
Bumiputera                                 74        51            36       22             66       45
Non-bumiputera                             26        49            64       78             34       55
Subsector (Gross Approvals /a)
Food processing                            18         9            29       17             21       10
Wood, bamboo and rattan                     9         8            12        9              9        8
Construction materials, plastics
and ceramics, etc                        77        15            15       19              9       16
Light engineering and metal
working                                  10         5            17       16             11        7
Other manufacturing                        24        39            18       33             23       38
Total Manufacturing                     68       76            91        95             73       80
Non-Manufacturing                       32       24              9        5             27       20
State (Gross Approvals /a)
SeLangor                                   na        na            21       26             na       na
Penang                                     na        na            17       11             na       na
Johor                                      na        na            17       20             na       na
Federal territory                          na        na            10        7             na       na
Perak                                      na        na             5        8             na       na
Kedah                                      na        na             3        3             na       na
Sarawak                                    na        na            10       13             na       na
Sabah                                      na        na             2        1             na       na
Others                                     na        na            15       10             na       na
Size of Subloan (Gross Approvals)            Lb        Lb            la       Li             Li
Above MS750,000                             5        32             2       14             na       na
MS500,001 - 750,000                         5        17             4       14             na       na
MS300,001 - 500,000                        10        18             5       14             na       na
MS100,001 - 300,000                      ) 80      ) 33            38       42             na       na
Below MS100,000                          )         )               51       16             na       na
/   Data incompLete for 1989, and net instead of gross approvals for some of the earlier years.
b Net Approvals; size categories here: >M$800,000; MS500,001-800,000; M$250,001-500,000; below MS250,000.
ic Not available due to differences between BPMB and MIDF data.



- 28 -
6.8 Characteristics and Performance of Subproiects
a. Random Sample of BPMB Subproiects
(40 subprojects below the free limit, and 20 above)
0) Use of Subloans:
Number of Subloans        Amount of Subloans
Expansions/Renovations            68%                        71%
New Establishments                32%                       29%
Total                            100% (60)                 100% (MS 42m)
(ii) Size of Subloans:
Average Subloan Amount (Commitment)
Above        Below           % of Assets
Free Limit  Free Limit   Pre-Loan  Post-Loan   LA
Expansions/Renovations   MS 1.31m    MS .46m              37%       20%
New Establishments         MS 1.50m    MS .27m             -        28%
Total                      MS 1.37m    MS .40m              -       23%
(iii) Size of Subborrowers:
Average Size Pre-Loan
EmPlovees         Assets            Sates
Expansions/Renovations           93            MS 1.9m           MS 2.5m
New Establishments                -
(iv) Subloan Repayment:
Number of Subloans
Withdrawn   Foreclosed   Fully Repaid   Repaving
Expansions/Renovations         10%           0%             12%          78%
New Establishments             16%           5%            21%           58%
Total                          12%           2%             15%          71%
(v) Subborrower Growth:
Avg. Sates Post-Loan    Avg. Assets Post-Loan
/C                        Amount   % of Pre-Loan   Amount   % of Pre-Loan
Expansions/Renovations  MS 4.4m         174%          MS 3.8m         181%
New Establishments        MS 2.5m         -           MS 2.7m
TotaL                     MS 3.9m         -           MS 3.5m
(vi) Subborrower Profits:
Avg. Net Profit    Return on Assets /d   Return on Sales
aC                         Pre-Loan  Post-Loan  Pre-Loan  Post-Loan  Pre-Loan Post-Loan
Expansions/Renovations   MS .14m   MS .36m          7.1%       9.5%         5.1%      8.2%
New Establishments            -       MS .16m         -        5.8%          -        6.3%
Total                         -       MS .30m         -        9.0%          -        7.8%
/a  Pre-Loan: Last year prior to subloan appraisal.  Post-Loan: 1990, or year of final repayment of subloan.
lb Active in business by end 1990, or in the last year of subloan repayment.
/ Only subloans fully reported and not withdrawn.
Ld Net profit over assets at year end (not over average assets of the year).



- 29 -
b. Random Samnle of MIDF Subprojects
(36 subprojects)
(i) Use of Subloans:
Number of Subtoans      Amount of Subloans
Expansions/Renovations          81%                      70%
New Establishments              19%                      30%
Total                          100% (36)                100% (MS 8m)
(ii) Size of Subloans:
Average SubLoan Amount (Cormitment)
Subloan Amount              % of Assets
Pre-Loan  Post-Loan   Lb
Expansions/Renovations         MS .20m                 36%      20%
New Establishments             MS .35m                  -       24%
Total                          MS .23m                  -       21%
(iii) Size of Subborrowers:
Average Size Pre-Loan Lb
Emplovees        Assets           Sates
Expansions/Renovations         29           MS .40m          MS .98m
New Establishments              -                -
(iv) Subborrower Growth:
Avg. Sales Post-Loan    Avg. Assets Post-Loan  lb
Amount   % of Pre-Loan   Amount   X of Pre-Loan
Expansions/Renovations  MS 1.7m      172%          MS 1.0m       180%
New Establishments       MS 4.7m       -           MS 1.4m          -
TotaL                   MS 2.3m        -           MS 1.1m         -
(v) Subborrower Profits:
Avg. Net Profit    Return on Assets /c   Return on Sales
Pre-Loan  Post-Loan  Pre-Loan  Post-Loan  Pre-Loan Post-Loan
Expansions/Renovations   MS .04m   MS .07m       7.9%      6.7%         4.4%     3.9%
New Establishments          -       MS .26m        -      17.7%          -       5.5%
TotaL                       -       MS .10m        -       9.5%          -       4.5%
la Missing data was estimated on the basis of the rest of the sample. One subborrower whose whose assets
and profits fell within the sample range but whose post-loan (pre-loan) sales exceeded the sample average
by 60 times (10 times), probably due to trading activity, was excluded from most calcuLations.
A sub-borrower whose net loss was twice its sales, and was hence probabLy an extraordinary loss, was
excluded from some calculations as welt.
lb Pre-Loan: Last year prior to subloan appraisal. Post-Loan: 1990, or year of finaL repayment of subloan.
/c Net profit over assets at year end (not over average assets of the year).



_ 30 -
7. BPMB's Financial Performance
Bank Pambnquna nNtaaysia *erhad ciPMB)
7.1. Summsrized lalance Sheets, December 31, 1985 - 1990
(kSP000)
1985       1986       1987       1988        1989       1990
A. ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash  nd Rank Balance                             1,932      7,139       3,746    2-,634        6,441      4,508
Ffxid  D    frsot                                85,595   131,807    136,359  338,533    583,665    386,517
R ceivables from:
Associate/Subsidiary Companies                  7,167      6,266       1,446    4,138         5,651      4,788
Other Receivables                              15,229    16,574       17,921   54;836         6,753      4,319
Less:  Provision for doubtful debts              -      (  2,400)       -    ( 43,227)         -
Loans                                           189,754   175,641    205,601  242,658    258,663    275,328
Less:  Provision for doubtful debts           .          )( 71,445f  (109,499)(119,897)  (.175,610) (179,8153
ForecLosed account interest suspense    (36,160)   14,436)  ( 25,380)( 40,684)    (58,453)  ( 75,856)
Won performing account interest suspended  -    .               (  5,089)(  8,233)       (5,221)  (  4,573.)
Subtotal                               263,517   249,146    225,105  430,778         621,889   415,216
others                                          25,457    34,097        29,983 . 32,575        32,021     30,357
Less:  Provision for doubtful debts               -      (    144)  (  3,412)(       420)        (420)      (420)
Total Current Assets                  288,974   283,099    251,676  462,933          653,490   445,153
Loans                                          171,728   212,844    195,617  235,238          322,206   380 524
Loans to subsidiary and associate corpanfes   36,546    33,564         38,183   35,244         83,649    88,135
Subtotal                              208,274   246,408    233,800  270,482          405,855   468,659
Investment in subsidiary conpanies              16,998    19,065       24,915   24,915         24,916     19,485
Investment in associate comp nfas               26,208    26,208       26,208   25,148         25,148     23,223
Other investment                                 6,232      7,597        7,597    8,070        19,509     34.630
Less:  Provision for losses                   C  7,217) (  8,586)  ( 22,471)( 14,920)    C14,92 1)    15,555)
Subtotal                               42,221    44,284        36,249   43,213        54,652    61,783
Net Fixed Assets                                43,586    63,619       93,836   70,292         66,292     72,680
Total Assets                          583,055   637,410    615,561  846,920   1,180,289 1,048,275



- 31 -
1985    1986    1987    1988        1 89         1990
B. Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Deposits                              73,097  109,000  148,896 341,164    596,150        355,105
Short-Term Borrowings                    -        -       11,703    -          4,935      12,088
Bank Overdraft                            113      -         124                 551         514
Others                                 13,302   32,096   10,377  26,563    32,985         36,076
SubtotaL                        86,512  141,096  171,100 367,727   634,62-1    403,783
Term Debts
Goverrnent Loan                      363,553  367,319  387,266 417,275   454,412         450,049
World Bank Loan                         6,680   10,634   lo,937  27,622    35,406         54,658
AJDF Loan                                -         -        -        -        20,472      89,6-26
Deferred Taxation                       2,433    2,433       -       -           -           -
Syndicated Loan (HQ Building)            -        2,50.   18,000    -           -            -
Subtotal                       372,666  382 886  416.203 444,89    510,290    594,333
Reserve for Foreign Exchange             -         -        -
Government Grant                         -       2,700    2,700   7,700        7;700       7,700
C. Equity
Paid-in Capital                      105,489  105,489  105,489 105,489   105,489         105,489
Undistributed Profits                  18,388    5,239 ( 79,931)(78,893) ( 77,811)  ( 63,030)
SubtotaL                       123,877  110,728   25,558  26,596    27,678          42,459
Total LiabiLities nd Equity          583,055  637,410  615,561 846,920 1,180,289   1,048,275



- 32 -
lank Pmffangunan MaLaysia Eerhed (WmB)
7. 2. Sumnrized Income Statement 1985 - 1990
CMS'O00)
1985     1986       1987       1988      1989       1990
Income
Interest on Loans to fndustries    34,927    36,605    27,363    25,987    33,446    35,965
Interest on Loans to subsidiarifs   2,804      3,558     5,034      1,398      5,002      3,952
and associate comqpnies
Interest on fixed deposits          6,083    11,398      6,022      7,985    17,930    30,727
Income on investments               2,609        948     1,385      1,241      3,77A5     3 279-
Others                              2,093      2,004      1,295     1,518      1,962-:   4,057
Net Profit/Loss from Plant Hire  (  874)    ( 963)   (1,832)   (1,155)          -           -
Total Income                 47,642    53,550    39,267    36,974    62,093-   77,975
Expenses
FinanciaL expenses                 10,675    14,871    15,852    15,806    27,527    43,151
GeneraL & adninistrative expenses
PersonneL cost                  8,240      7,630      6,606     7,557      8,834    11,019
Rent                            1 897      1,933      1,854       621        435        466
Others                          2,380      2,298      2,256     3,287      3-,545     3,7.77
Provisions for doubtfuL accounts   14,981    35,857    43,054    11,154    12,328.    7,153
Others                              2,315      1,741    -2,184      3,634      3,691      3,6157-
Total Expenses               40,488    64,330    71,806    42,059    56,360    69,181.
Profit (Loss) before tax      7,154   (10,780)  (32,539)  ( 5,085)    5,7*3         8,794
Less: Taxation                    ( 3,364)      -         -          -       (   293)
Loan principaL written off    -          -          -          (6J       -           45W)
Loan interest written off     -          -          -      ( 1,580)      -       (   324)
-  Add: Provision for bad debt
written back
Profit (Loss) before
extraordinary Item          3,790   (10,780)  (32,539)  ( 6,671)    5,440         8,020-
Add: Extraordinary Item           ( 8,985)      -         -          -       ( 1,665)    6,760'.
Profit (Loss) after
extraordinary item       (5,195)   (10,780)  (32,539)  ( 6,671)    3,775-   14,780



- 33 -
Bank Pembenguwan Malaysia Berhad (81'B)
7. 3. FinanciaL Indicators 1985 - 1990
CMS'000)
1985      1986       1987      1988       1989       1990
General
Total Assets                      583,055   637,410   615,561   846,920  1,180,289 1,048,275
Loan PortfoLio Short-Term Loans   196,921   181,907   207,047   246,796    264,315  . 280,116
Long-Tenn Loans                   208,274   246,407   233,800   270,482    358,839   468,659
Sub-TotaL                     405,195   428,314   440,847   517,278    623,154    748,775
Investment                        49,438    52,870    58,720    58,133         69,573     77,338
Total Portfolio               454,633   481,184   499,567   575,411    692,727    826,113
Short-Term Resources               73,097   109,000   148,896   341,164    601,085    367,193
Long-Term Resources               370,233   380,453   416,203   444,897    510,290   594,333
Equity                            123,877   110,728    25,558    26,596        27,678    42,459
Net Profit                       (  5,195) ( 10,780) ( 32,539) C  6,671)        3,775    14,780
As X of Total Average Assets
Gross Income                        8.6      -8.8        6.3        5.1           6.1        7.0
Resource Cost                       1.9        2.4       2.5        2.2           2.7        3.9
Average Spread                      6.7        6.4       3.8        2.9           3.4        3.1
Administrative Expenses             2.3        1.9       1.7        1.6           1.3        1.4
Provision for DoubtfuL Accounts     2.7        5.9       6.9        1.5           1.2        0.6
Gross Profit                        1 3         _         _                       0 6        0 8
Corporate Income Tax                0.6         _         _                         4        1.3
Net Profit                         (0.9)        -                    _            0.4        1.3
Income from Term Loans              6.8        6.6       5.2        3.7           3.8        3.6
Cost of Term Resources              1.1        1.1       1.6        1.1           1.0        t2
Net Profit as X of Total Average
Net Worth                          (4.1)        -         -          -           13.9       42.1
Other Ratios
Provision as % of TotaL Portfolio  10.1       17.8      28.1       25.6          30.3       26.2
Current Ratio                       3.3        2.0        1.5       1.3           1.0        1.1
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio         3.0        3.4      16.3       16.7          18.4       14.0
Total Debt/Equity Ratio             4.2        4.5      22.6       30.0          40.7       23.0



- 34 -
;Bnk Pebngsunan Nslaysa Borhad (UPNI)
7 4. Suury of operations 198S - 1990
(NS '000)
1985            1986             1987            1968             1989               1990
No.  Amount    No.  AmoLint   No.  Amout            .        t     o.  Amount   No.  AmoL.nt
Loan Approvals
1. By Scham
Norml Lewding                      153   62,313   73   27,554    36  40,126    82   137,567  96    77,344    72    71,313
SSE                                122   11,317  154   14,113   264  42,213   214    88,635 110    27,006    11              1,177
AJDF                                -       -       -       -        -      -        -         -     77   100,551    81   114,389
mIsmic lewding                      10    5,995    1          40    -       -         3    10,909   7       6,461    22    29,651
Loenmyrydication                     7   16,000    3    7,000    -          -        12   105,000   8    79,500        1    10,000
New Entrepreneur Fund (cheenled)  -         -       -       -        -      -        -        -       1        50   109      9,552
S.b-total                      292   95,625  231   48,707   300  82,339   311   342,111 299   290,912   296   236,082
Ca:neilation of new
loon  pprovels                    31   20,108   24   10,005    28   8,198    49    58,200  14             9,944    11    20,020
Net loan approvaLs             261   75,517  207   38,702   272  74,141   262   283,911 285   280,968   285  216,062
Irwet_nt                             7    5,225   -         -         2   2,980       1    12,000   5    16,250       2    10,750
CancelLation of Investment          -       -       -       -        -      -        -        -      -       -       -       -
Total Met Approvals            268   80,742  207   38,702   274  77,121   263   295,911 290   297,218   287   226,812
ff. y Facilities'                   - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -
Fixed Assets                     137   64,477    94    32,597  149   51,429 192   246,598  154   202,682   156   169,675
Working Capital                   155   14,036   101        7,955  133   16,104  98    34,743  1Oo    51,93   103    32,987
Leasing                            32     7,816    21       5,263   31    5,710  42    23,836   38    15 435    29    12,482
Guarantee                          29    3,832       8         765    9        534  10      9,364    4       1,578     5     1,356
Share Financing                    30    5,464      20      2,127   11    8,562  11    27,570    3           8,754    13    19,582
Others (canvertibil  bonds etc.)   -       -        -         -      -        -     -         -        1    10,500     0         0
Sub-total                  333   95,625   244    48,707  333   82,339 353   342,111  306   290,912   306   236,082
Cancellation of new
lo n approv ls                   34   20,108    24    10,005   28    8,198  54    58,200   15             9,944    11    20,020
met loan approvels          349   7.5,517   220    38,702  305   74,141 299   283,911  291   280,968   295   216,062
Equity                              7    5,225    -           -        2    2r,9     T -Tr      1     I    16,250      2    10,750
Cancellation (Equity)              -       -        -         -       -       -     -         -       -       -        r      -
Total get Approvals         356   80,742   220    38,702  307   77,121 300   295,911  296   297,218   297   226,812



- 35 -
Bank Pewbangunan Malaysia Derhad (SPS)
Sumnary of Operations (continued) 1985 - 1990
(NS'DOO)
1985       1986       1987      1988        1989       1990
S. DISBURSEMENT
Fixed Assets                     43,296      22,303    18,442    89,188        125,795    115,473
Working CapitaL                  12,908       10,034      9,604    10,609       17,569     30,935
Leasing                           2,605          646      1,027     5,318        7,193       7,540
Others                           19,568        7,814    12,789    11,026        17,976      13,282
Sub-TotaL                  78,377      40,797    41,862   116,141        168,533    167,230
Investment                        3,566       1,379      2,352      1,121       11,615     18,524
TotaL Disbursements        81,943      42,176    44,214   117,262        180,148    185,754
C. REPAYMENT
Fixed Assets                     33,441      39,186    47,114    59,674         88,830     92,185
L'orking Capital                 15,752      12,976    12,427    13,124         11,814     30,695
Leasing                           2,837       2,731      2,018      2,480        5,151      8,520
Others                           24,680       19,048    13,063       5,789       4,820      6,602
Total Repayment            76,710      73,941    74,522    81,067        110,615    138,002
0. TOTAL OUTSTANDING (as of Dec. 31)
Fixed Assets                    293,342    320,860   217,778   364,783         464,729    576,116
Working CapitaL                  48,722      45,374    47,736    58,718         70,978      72,604
Leasing                          12,027       8,045      8,875    13,782,       18,774     21,935
Others                           51,104      54,035   166,458    79,995         68,673     78,120
Sub-Total                 405,195    428,314   440,847   517,278         623,154    748,775
Investment                       49,438      52,870    58,720    58,133        69,573      77,33a
Total Outstanding         454,633    481,184   499,567   575,411    692,727    826,113



lank Pegsb"wan malaysia Berhad (UPHE)
7.5. Loan Approvals by Size 1985 - 1996
(NS '000)
1985           1986           1987            1988           1989              1990
No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount
up to         50,000              107   3,775   113    3,872   116   4,039    49   1,723    60    1,907   62    2,132
50,001  -  100,000               59   4,442    49    3,739    63   4,902    62   4,371    49    3,729   54    4,145
100,001 -  300,000               60  11,028    45    8,311    65  10,680    62  11,972    64   11,552   61   11,203
300,001 -  500,000               20   7,901      5    2,210    21   9,960    36  14,791    16    6,423   24    9,651
500,001 - 1,000,000              28  21,320    10    7,625    26  19,070    35  27,621    34   25,681   26   21,005
1,000,001 - 3,000,000              25  52,384      9   22?950     2   2,600    43  73,589   41   75,820   41   81,026
Above      3,000,000                                               7  31,088    24 208,044    24  165,800   16  106,920
sub-total                   299 100,850   231   48,707   300  82,339   311 342,111   288  290,912  28   236,082
Conceltatlon of new loan
approvals                        31  20,108    24   10,005    28   8,198    49  58,200    13    9,944   11   20,020
Net loan pprovals           268  80,742   207   38,702   272  74,141   262 283,911   275  280,968  273  216,062



Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPHB)
7.6. Loan Approvals by Subsector 1985 - 1990
1985            1986            1987            1988            1989               1990
Ko.  Ms '000    No. NS '000    No. NS '000    No. MS '000    No. MS '000    No. MS '000
manufacturing and Related Subsectors
Forestry & Logging                  -     -          1       30    -        -       -       -       1         90    0          0
Mining & Quarrying                  1        54      4    1,750    4    2,290    1           70     3      2,782     2       890
food manufacturing                43   12,384    45    8,920   58   14,611   45   29,625    20            4,503   26    32216
Textiles, Wearing Apparel, Leather 12    4,748      6       314   20    5,410   11    4,693    10          6,425   13    11915
Wood Products                      17    1,703    13    1,880   20    3,671   26   11,223    69    17,784    59    12806
Paper, Printing, Publishing        10    3,917      6    1,359   11    3,402   12   45,030    18    15,411    13           9214
Chetacel, Plestic, Rubber Products 14    8,020    10    3,039   26    7,202   52   44,316    35    48,197   31    27763
won-MetaLlic Mineral Products
(except Petroleu & Coal)        16    8,095       2    1,010    -        -        4   27,500      3     2,550    5       6230
Basic Metal Industries                                                              7    3,874      3     8,850      1      360
Fabricated Metal Products, Equlp- 25    7,189    16    9,585   33   18,284
ment, machinery                                                                  56   28,662    34    21,148    23    2026
Other Namwfacutring Industries                      6       230    1         35    4        780     2       217    0          0
Electricity, Gas, Water           53    5,570       3        82    3        330    2   10,098       1        60      1     1400
RetaiL Trade d                                     25    2,775   30    4,097    9    6,210          6      1,200   12       983
Restaurants and Hotels              3      200      3       538    1         25    2        500    11    26,130   20    28713
Repair services                     -      -       11       746   19    4,681    5          244     5       780     2        192
Sub-total                    194   51,880   151   32,258  226   64,038  236  212,825   221   156,127   208  152,946
Non-Naufacturing
Agriculture                        -       -        -      -        -      -        -     -         1    7,500      1    2,500
Construction                       8    1,257       7       584    9    4,100    3    1,354         7     4,137    3      1,200
Wholesale Trade                     -      -        5       390   17    1,499    7         725      4       195     3       795
Transportation& Storage           27    8,896    23    3,907   26    7,241   32   64,564    25    15,257   33    0,060
Couim.ication                                       2        90    -      -        3   22,400       3    23,000     1       550
Financing, Insurance                                2       135    2    3,355    3   15,800         3    22,500     7   20,430
Real Estate                                        10    7,040    3         355    8   15,750       4    17,072    3    4,950
Legal, Accounting, Architect, etc.                 11       496    9    1,087    2          75      3     6,555     3       254
Machinery * Equip. Rental/Leasing                   _      -        -     -        - _       _      _               2    15,100
Pubtic Adeinistretion & Detenme   68   37,967       -      -        -     -        3    5,600.   2    15,109    4   20,900
Sanitery & Slelmtr Services                         2        91    2        94    2    1,560        1       296     1    2,752
Research & Scientific Institutes a                         -        -     -                                         `1       l
Medical, Dental, Other Health Se                   16    3,556    5        540    7        293      1     4,000     3    3,100
Educations Services                                    -  _        -      -        -      -         1    3,000      1        30
_ecreti nfFla, EntertairSnnt    2         850              i0     I      -        5    1,165    12    16,164    10    1,497
- Mvel &m2urst Agent                -      -                   u    I        30     -      -         _      _        _     _
Sub-total                    105   48,970    80   16,449   74   18,301   75  129,286    67   134,785    76   83,136
Yotal                        299  100,850   231   48,707  300   82 339  311  342,111   288   290,912   284   236,082
Cancellation of neAw lo n
approvals                         31   20,108    24   10,005   28    8,198   49   58,200    13            9,944    11   20,020
Net loan approvals           268   80,742   207   38,702  272   74,141  262  283,911   275   280,968  273   216,062



- 38 -
Bank Pamebngunan Mataysia 5erhad (SPNS)
7.7.Rcsource Position as of December 31, 1985 - 1990
1985       1986      1987       1988        1989       1990
Long-Term Resources
Paid-in capital                          105,489   105,489   105,489   105,489          105,489    105,489
Unappropriated profit                      18,388      5,239  ( 79,931) ( 78,893)   (77,811) ( 63,030)
Provision for doubtfuL debts
4 probable Losses                       43,377    94,467   162,439   134,817         190,531   195,370
Interest suspense - non-performing
and forecLosed account                     _          _          -        48,917       63,674     80,429
Depreciation                               2,895       3,120    11,141    14,352          7,495      9,266
Government Loan                                      367,319   387,266   417,275       454,412    450,049
Goverryent Grant                      4  355,498       2,700      2,700      7,700       7,700       7,700
WorLd Bank Loan                       I               10,634    10,937    27,622        35,406      54,658
AJDF Loan                             )      -          -          -          -         20,472      89,626
TotaL Term Resources               525,647   588,968   600,041   677,279    807j368    929,557
Less: Loans outstanding                  405,195   428,315   440,847   517,278         623,154    748,775
Investment                          49,438    52,870    58,720    58,133          69,573      77,338
Other fixed assets                   51,143    66,739   104,977    84,644          73,787     81,946
Amount avaiLabLe for disbursement   19,871    41,044  (  4,503)   17,224          40,854-   21,498-
Less: Undisbursed commitments             104,640    48,372    70,502   197,958        204,561    212,652
Resources avallabLe for commitment (84,769) (  7,328) ( 75,005) (180,734)  (163,707) (190,954)
Less: Uncommited approvaLs                   _-                    - _        _           _
Resources avaiLabLe for approvaL   (84,769) (  7,328) ( 75,005) (180,734)  (163,707) (190,954)



Bank Penbanginan Mataysis Berhad (BPpl)
7. . Portfolio Status as of Decenber 31, 1985 - 1990
1985            1986             1987             1988            1989                1990
Mo.  NS '000    No.  MS '000   No.  NS '000   No.  NS '000    No.  NS '000   No.  NS '000
1. Loans Outstanding
(a) Total Principal outstanding
(i)  Active Loan                   1,434  313,834 1,300   288,480 1,297  274,430 1,173  311,456  1139  390,645   109B  490,743
(it) forclosed Loan                  321   63,999   475    88,034   543   99,811   635  117,099   641   129,770   652   141,415
Stutotal                   1,755  377,833 1,775   376,514 1,840  374,241 1,808  428,555  1780  520,415   1750  632,158
(b) Total Loans outstanding
(t)  Active Loan                  1,434  331,456 1,300   311,794 1,297  296,810 1,173  336,785  1139  410,768   1098  501,150
(ti) forcloled Loan                  321   83,110   475   116,520   543  144,037   635  180,493   641   212,386   652  247,625
Subtotal                  1,755  414,566 1,775   428,314 1,840  440,847 1,808  517,278  1780  623,154   1750  748,775
(c) Total Arrears outstanding
(i)  Active Loan                    652   50,550   611    61,142   521   62,133   493   65,582   431    51.125    386   29,472
(ii) forclosed Loan                 321   83,110   475   116,520   543  144,037   635  180,493   641  212.386   652  247,625
Subtotal                    973  133,660 1,086   177,662 1,064  206,170 1,128  246,075  1072  263,511   1038  277,097
(d) Total Principal Affects by Arrears
(I)  Active Loan                    652  131,966   611   162,118   521  132,921   493  135,15A   431   121,591    386   99,022
(if) forciosed Loan                 321   63,999   475    88,034   543   99,811   635  117,099   641   129,770   652  141,415
subtotal                    973  195,965 1,086   250,152 1,064  232,732 1,128  252,253   1072  251,361   1038  240,437
(e) Foreclosed Loan as % of total      18.3      20.0  26.8       27.2  29.5       32.7  35.1      34.9  36.0       34.1  37.3      33.1
outstandlng
forclosed Loan PrIncf?a  aXof  18.3          16.9  26.8       23.4  29.5       26.7  35.1      27.3  36.0       24.9  37.3      22.4
total principal 0u s an   ng
(f) Total arrears as X of total        55.4      32.2  61.2       41.5  57.8      46.8  62.4       47.6  60.2       42.3  59.3      37.0
outstard ing
Arrears of 12 months an above      36.1)     28.3  43.1       36.9  46.2       43.8  47.9      46.4  47.9       41.4  47.4      36.4
as X of total outstanding
(9) Arrears of active loan as X of     45.4      15.2  47.0.      19,6  40.2      20.9  42.0       19.5  37.8    '12.4  35.2         5.9
active loans outstalding
(I) Principal affected by errears an    55.4     51.8  61.2       66.4  57.8      62.2  62.4       58.9  60.2      48.3  59.3       38.0
X of total principal outstanding
Princ. &ff. by arrears of 12 months or
above as X of total prfnc. outst. 36.0     23.3  43.1       44.9  46.2      49.4  AO 9       50.8  47.9      41.8  47.4       31.8
Princ. aff. by arrears of active loans
as X of total princ. active outat.45.5    42.0  47.0        56.2  40.2      48.4  42.0      43.4   37.8      31.1  35.2       20.2
(1) Principal In arrears of 12 months or _      89.7              8 89.5    -     93.3    _       97.4    -        97.2    _       97.5
above as X of total pripic.in arrears
(J) Interest In arrears of 12 months and -      81.2    -         87.8    -       94.3    -       98.1    -        98.9            9 9.3
above as X of total Interest in err.



Bank Pembangtman Malaysia Berhad (BPtB)
Portfolio Status 1985 -1990 (continued)
(MS '000)
1985             1956              1987             1988              1989                 1990
No     hnvuNo.       o.    unt nt    No.    AoAun-t  No     Amount uo.    Amount    No.    Afomt
2. Collection (during the year)
Active Loan CoLlectfon                     71,500            67,207           65,179            76,763           94,703          125.114
Foreclosed Loan Collection                  5,210             6,734            9,443             4,304           15,912           12.88a
Total Loan Collection                     76 710             73 941           74 622           81,067          110,615           138,002
Collection Rate of Active Loans             57.5              56.7             W 5600            53.7             64.6o             79.4X
Collection Rots of Foreclosed L.             5.9               5.5              6.2               2.3              7.0X              5.0%
Total Collection Rate                       35.4              28.9             26.3             24.7              29.5X             33.1X
(Equivalent Amvual Rate)
3. Loan Reschedulltng  during the year)                                                                                                                           O
Principal Amownt Approved for             45,850             21,981           45,627           32,043           16,926            19,851
Rescheduling
NLIber of Case                               -                   75              143                80              78                61
4. Guarentee Portfolio In Arrears
(as of December 31)
Normtl Business Cuarantees                                    3,249            2,426            2 934            6,255             4,696
Corporate Guarantees to Subsidia-            -            . 10,823             9,222           10,191            8,413             8,334
ries ad Accoc. Companies
Total                               23,952             14,072           11,648           13,125           14,668            13,032



Bank Pea*enwn Ntaaysio Serhad (BPNI)
7.9. Age Structure of Loan Arrears as of December 31, 1985   1990
(Ns ' 000)
1985            1986             195              1988            1989                1990
No.   AIDNt   Fo.   Ant   lo.   A*Ount   No.  lAwmzt   No.   A.nmt   No.   Ammt
Age Structure of Loan Arrears
3 - 6 Ionths                    169     5,038   140    8,290    93 . 3,193   132    1,324    124    2,622-  117    1,855
6 - 12 Months                   172    11,168   180   11,024   121    9,794   130    4,438          96     2,944    91    3,036
12 months and bone
Active Loam                 311    34,344   291   41,828   307   49,146   231   59,820    211    45,559   171   24,581
Foreclosed Loan.            321    83,110   475  116,520   543  144,037   635  180,493    641   212,386   652  247,625
Total                     973   133,660 1,086  177,662 1,064  206,170 1,128  246,075   1072  263,511   1038  277,097
Ag. Structure of Principal Affected
by Arrears
3 - 6 Months                   169    25,912   140   40,259    93   15,788   132   13,167    124   21,855    117   25,716
6 - 12 Months                  172    29,944   180   40,823   121   31,929   130   21,163           96   11,a37     91   13,848
12 Months and above
Active Loan                 311    76,110   291   81.036   307   85,204   231  100,824    211   87,899    178   59,458
ForecLosed Loam             321    63,999   475   88,014   543   99,811   635  117,099    641  129,77O    652  141.415
Total                     973   195,965 1,086  250,152 1,064  232,732 1,128  252,253  1,072  251,361  1,038  240,437



- 42 -
8. MIDF's Financial Performance
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad (MIDF)
8.1. Summarized Balance Sheets, March 31, 1986 - 199.1
(M$ 000)
FY 86      FY 87      FY 88      FY 89      FY90        FY 91
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and bank balances             2,060      8,436      4,917       8,003     4,806        S 922
Fixed deposits                     3,222     68,034    125,285    130,428   138,170    162.309
Receivables from subsidiary
Companies (Current A/c)             653      1,582      3,053       4,830     3,123        7,003
Term loans due within one year 133,040    121,049    107,771        94,256    93,674    108,128
Provisions for doubtful
accounts                        (10,795)   (14,151)   (20,417)   (17,731)  (20,177)   (17,249)
Lease Receivable                   5,727      4,439      5,015       4,676     4,054       2,894
Provision for doubtful
accounts (lease)                 (1,580)      (917)      -           -         -           _
Subtotal                       132,327    188,472    225,624    224,462   223,650    269,007
Accruals                           9,913      8,220       7,271      6,046      7,667      6.866
Sundry debtors and prepayments   5,286        5,733      7,059       8,314    87,762       8,740
Total Current Assets           147,526    202,425    239,954    238,822   3i9,079   .284,613
Fixed Assets
Medium/long-term loans           274,077    250,267    222,814    194,873   193,671    223,655
Lease receivable                   6,678      5,108      5,770       5,380     4,665       3,333
Provisions for doubtful
accounts (lease)                    (58)      (567)      (236)       (413)      (699)    (1,137)
Provisions for doubtful
accounts (loans)                 (2,796)    (4,525)    (5,109)    (8,017)   (6,879)    (7 801)
Amounts due from subsidiary
companies                        27,666     29,449     31,043     41,750    28,350       38,607
Subtotal                       305,467    279,732    254,282   233,573   219,108    256.657
Investment in subsidiary
companies                        24,168     24,168     28,360     29,282    29,282    115,402
Other investments                  2,076      2,242      2,238       5,849     2,812       4,606
Subtotal                        26,244     26,410     30,598     35,131    32,094    120,0c8
Fixed Assets                       8,361      7,315      6,383-    6,270       6,020       5,622
Total Fixed Assets             340,072    313,457   291,263  274.974 257.2-22   3A2,2R7
Total Assets                   487,598    515,882    531,217    513,796   576,301   666,900



- 43 -
FY 85     FY 86      FY 87      FY 88      FY 89      FY 90    FY 91
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Bank overdrafts                          -         2,493       -          -          -                     -
Short-term portion of
term loans                           111,850    32,743    67,744    71,153    65,471    76,798    100,115
Payables                                8,463      8,133      9,441      5,493      2,897      3,182      5,576
Accruals and other creditors            7,578      5,796      5,845    12,660    14,082    15,323        12,556
Other (provision for taxation
and dividend)                         22,842    26,517    22,481    20,843    22,161    22,923    23,618
Revolving Credit                                                                               8,000       -
Total Current Liabilities           150,733    75,682   105,511   110,149   104,611   126,226   141,865
Term Debts
Loans from government                  20,500    18,000    15,500    15,500    13,000    10,500           8,000
Other                                 133,466   182,595   181,439   191,290   177,276   212,694   282,959
Total Term Debts                    153,966   200,595   196,939   206,790   190,276   223,194   290,959
Provisions for staff
retirement                             2,038      2,213     2,591      2,899      3,088      3,457    '3,923
Total Liabilities                   306,737   278,490   305,041   319,838   297,975   352,877   436.747
Equity
Paid-in capital                        79,773    79,896    79,963    80,062    80,093    80,179    80,334
Undistributed profits                 126,435   129,212   130,878   131,317   135,728   143,245   149,819
Total Equity                        206,208   209,108   210,841   211,379   215,821   223,424   230,153
Total Liabilities and
Shareholders' Equity                512,945   487,598   515,882   531,217   513,796   576,301   666,900



-44-
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad (MIDF)
8.2. Summarized Income Statement for the Years Ended March 31, 1986 - 1990
And Six Months Ended September, 1990
(M$'000)
FY 86      FY 87       FY 88       FY 89       FY 90    FY 91
Income
Interest on loans to industries   47,423        42,905      37,615      30,225      27,794       23,817
Interest on loans to
subsidiaries                        2,077      2,674       2,361       2,870       2,551        2,796
Interest on fixed deposits              728       2,379      4,602       6,129       10,302       7,888
Income on investments                2,608       2,608       2,018        -          2,631      13,202
Other income /a                       1,858       1,636       1,344       5,052       1,961       2.671
Total Income                    54,694     52,202      47,940      44,276      45,239      50,374
Expenses
Financial expense                    21,767     21,974      20,033      16,179      14,026       16,298
General and administrative
expense
Personal                           4,825      4,364       5,202       5,247       5,652       6,610
Rent                                 304         312        253         216         214          214
Other                              2,679      2,997       2,239       2,303       1,906       2,242
Provisions for doubtful accounts   7,472          8,237       7,547       1,313       1,887         499
Other (Audit fee, Directors fees
& Depreciation                       1,140       1,112       1,158      1,649          887         812
Total Expenses                 38,187      38,996      36,432      26,907      24,572      26,675
Income Before Tax              16,507      13,206      11,508      17,369      20,667      23,699
Less:  Taxation                     ( 7,989)    (5,789)    (5,321)    (6,110)    (8,072)         (9,891)
Net Income                      8,518       7,417       6,187      11,259      12,595      13,808
/a    Including profits on sales
of investment of:                   -          -             34         101            9         na



_ 45  -
Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad (MIOF)
8.3,Financial Indicators, FY 86 - 90 And Six Months
Ended September 30, 1990
(M$ '000)
FY 86     FY 87       FY 88      FY 89      FY 90    FY 91
General
Total assets /a                          488,573   515,882   531,217   513,796   576,301    666,900
Loan portfolio
Term loans                            274,077   250,267   222,814   194,873   193,671    223,655
Current portion of term loans         133,040   121,049   107,771    94,256    93,674    108,128
Subtotal                            407,117   371,316   330,585   289,129   287,345   331,783
Leases                                     12,305     8,063    10,785    10,056       8,719       6,227
Investments                               26,244    26,410    30,598    35,131    32,094   120,008
Total Portfolio                     445,666   405,789   371,968   334,316   328,158   458,018
Term resources                           200,595   196,939   206,790   190,276   223,194   290,959
Current portion of term resources         32,743    67,744    71,153    65,471    76,798   100,115
Equity                                   209,108   210,841   211,379   215,821   223,424   230,153
Net profit                                     8,518     7,417      6,153    11,259    12,595    13,808
As % of Total Average Assets
Income from lending                          9.9        8.7        7.6       6.6         5.6        4.4
Other income                                  1.0       1.3        1.5       1.9         2.7        3.5
Gross income                                 10.9      10.0        9.1       8.5         8.3        7.9
Resource cost /b                             4.3        4.4        3.8       3.1         2.6        2.7
Average lendin6gspread                       5.5        4.4        3.8       3.5         3.0        1.7
Average spread /c                            6.6        5.7        5.3       5.4         5.7        5.2
Administrative expenses                      3.3        3.4        3.1       2.1         1.9        1.7
Provision for doubtful accounts               1.5       1.6        1.4       0.25        0.3        0.1
Gross profit                                  3.3       2.3        2.2       3.3         3.8        3.9
Corporate income tax                          1.6       1.2        1.0       1.2         1.5        1.6
Net profit                                    1.7       1.5        1.2       2.2         2.3        2.3
Net Profit as % of Total
Average Net Worth                          5.0       3.5        2.9       5.3         5.7        6.1
Other Ratios
Provision as % of total
portfolio                                2.4        3.9        1.7      3.1         2.8         2.0
Current Ratio                              1.3       1.8        5.3       5.2         5.9        5.4
Long-term debt/equity ratio               0.9        0.9        1.0       0.9'        1.0        1.3
Long-term debt/equity ratio
(consolidated)                           N/A        N/A       N/A       N/A         N/A        N/A
Total debt/equity ratio                   1.1        0.9        1.0      0.9          1.3        1.3
Total debt/equity ratio
(consolidated)                           N/A        N/A        N/A      N/A         N/A         N/A
Debt service cover ratio
(times) /d                               1.9        1.0        1.6      0.7         2.7        2.0
Interest service cover ratio
(times) /e                               1.8        1.7        1.7      1.9         2.1         1.9
Book valuTeper share (in M$)              2.6        2.6        2.6      2.7         2.8         2.9
Dividend payout ratio                    34.8       77.6       93.6         -       49.7          -



Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad
8.4.  Summary of Operations, FY 85 - 91
(M} 000)
Years ended March 31                           FY85              FY86              FY87                FY88                FY89             FY90               FT 11
No.    Amount    No.    Amount    No.    Amount    No.    Amount    No.    Amount    No.             Amount       lo.   lsoast
Loan Approvals
Fixed assets                           112   71,501.0    90   53,095.0   105   83,294.3   137   113,463.0   92    66,817.1  110    173,542.6    111               ,111.3
Working capital                         -       -          -       -         -        -         -        -         -       -         -         -
Leasing                                 58   12,387.0    18    2,676.0    15    2,974.9    15           6,941.0   15      3,400.8    6        2,338.4       1      112 g1
Sub-total                             170   83,888.0   108   55,771.0   120   86,269.2   152   120.404.0  107    70,217.9  116    175,881.0
Cancellations & Reductions  a            29   15,259.0    32   21,434.0    29   22,543.7    25    25,631.0   34    22,296.5   28              32,396.7      14   12h 11.1
Total Loan Approvals (Net)            141   68,629.0    76   34,337.0    91   63,725.5   127    94,773.    73    47,921.4   88             143,484.3      I  12, .
Other Approvals
Share financing                                                      -                           -             -             -        -         -
Venture capital financing                -        -         -         -        -        -        -
Sub-total                              -
Guarantees                               -                      -         - _                                       - _               -         -
Total Net Approvals                    141   68,629.0    76   34,337.0    91   63,725.5   127    94.773.0   73    47,921.4   88    143,484.3             11  121,111.7
/a Inclusive of projects approved in previous years.



Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad
8.5.   Characteristics of Loan L Lease Comitments for FY85-90
and Outstanding as at September 30, 1990
("$ '000)
Characteristics of Loan Comitments                                                             Outstanding as
at September 30.
Years ended March 31                           FY85               FY86                FY87              FY88              FY89                 FY90              1990
No.   Amount      Mo.    Amount       No.   Amount        No.  Amount       No.  Amount       No.  Amount         No.   Amount
4.1
By Purpose                                                                                                                                                                     I
Fixed assets loans                         94    58,451.0    63   33,139.0    77   60,881.8   114   90,583.0   60    45,265.1   82   141,173.1   480   300,589.0
Working capital loans                       -       -           -     -            -     -           -      -          -       -          -        -         -       -
Others (leases)                            47    10.178.0    13    1,198.0    14    2,843.7    13    4,190.0   13            2,656.3    6       2,311.2    46       7,499.0
Others (subsidiary
com,anies)                                -      -            -     -           -      -           -      -          -      -           -       -          2    39,673.0
Total                                  141    68A629.0    76   34,337.0    91   63,725.5   127   94,773.0   73    47,921.4   88   143,484.3   528   347,761.0
By Size                                    a
Up to         50.000                       28     1,000.0    10        258.0    20        651.1    22        650.0    9        262.0    3         (87.9)   73       1,103.1
50.001  -   100,000                        36     2,763.0    22    1,830.0    13          943.7    16    1,137.0    6           772.0    8        461.9    63       2.609.3
100.001 -   250,000                        31     5,156.0    23    3,560.0    23    3,891.3    24    4,449.0   30            4,524.1   14       2,505.0   124    12,131.8
250,001 -   500,000                        13     4;864.0    10    2,850.0    15    5,136.7    26   11,147.0    6            2,825.3   15       5,388.1     75    10 930.8
500,001 - 1l000,000                        14    11,116.0      5    2,616.0       3    3,398.7    19   14,980.0    8         5,820.2   14    10,257.6    75    37,755.0
Above      1,000,000                       19    43,730.0       6   23,223.0    17   49,704.0    20   62,410.0   14    33,717.8   34   124.959.6   118   277,111.0
Total                                 141    68,629.0    76   34,337.0    91   63,725.5   127   94,773.0   73    47,921.4   88   143,484.3   528   347,761.0



Outstanding as
Years ended March 31                      FY85             FY86              FY87             FY88             FY89                 FY90            at Sept. 30, 1990
No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount         No.  Amount         No.    Amount        No.    Amount
By Sector
Logging                            _-                                          -        - _  _  _  _  _   _       _
Mining and quarrying               -        -         -       -         1      750.0   (1)    (750.0)   -         -            -       -           4      2,054.0
Food, beverages, tobacco           32    8,555.0    21    9,960.0   34   23,710.5   31    2,606.0   12          7,190.9      17    12,580.3    137       39.839.7
Textiles & clothing                 4      (489.0)    3    2,613.0    5    3,460.1   11   13,058.0    6         3.120.9       6      5,151.0      28     21,618.0
Leather products                   -        -         1       840.0   -        160.4    2       690.0    -       -            -        -           3        541.8
Wood and wood products              14    2.354.0      8    3.281.0   13    5,497.9    7    1.330.0   11         1,216.0      10    11.626.0      47     12,243.6
Paper and printing                 18    5.876.0      9       515.0    7    2,617.1   10    6,304.0    3          875.1       8    19,005.0      33      23,110.8
Chemical products                    1    1,719.0     3    3,300.0    2   (3,007.0)   5    5,057.0    4          6,300.0      3    21,755.0       20     35,241.0
Rubber products                     8    2,502.0       1      570.0    7    2.874.0   14   11,936.0    3        4,129.0       1      2.377.7      26     15,149.5
Plastic products                    9    6,906.0      9   (2,416.0)   6    1,784.0   19   21,115.0   10    10.270.0          12    12.777.4       62     31,606.0    1
Non-metallic mineral products       6    7.710.0      4    4,960.0    3    4.506.3    4   16,280.0    1         4.153.3       4    20,642.5      31      44,657.0
Metal and engineering              38   19.674,0    16   10,180.0   13   21,372.2   22   13,707.0  21    10,406.2            26    36,856.6    112       74,128.3   4-
Miscellaneous manufacturing         8   12,667.0      1       521.0   -        -         1      190.0    2        260.0       1        712.8      16      4,806.3
Hiscellanous non-manufacturing    3    1,155.0    -            13.0   -        _         2    3,250.0   -         -          -        -            7      3,092.0    1
Others (subsidiary companies)      -        -                 -       -                         -                                                  2     39,6730
Total                         141   68,629.0    76   34,337.0  91   63,725.5  127   94,773.0   73    47,921.4            88   143,484.3    528    347,761.0
By Type
New projects                       37   22,357.0    22   15,037.0   30   18.046.6.  35   14,182.0   15    17,267.0           30    46,521.7    167    112,443.4
EAisting projects                 iue   q0,?7k.0   b!q   |,JUU.O 0i *,7b.!v  S2   bU,!s9I.U i    b    60,b64.4               58    9bt !o.b   Jil    23b317.D
Total                         141   68,629.0    76   34,337.0   91   63,725.5 '127   94,773.0   73    47,921.4           88   143,484.3    528    347,761.0
By Location (State)
Selangor t F.T Kuala Lumpur        45   34,105.0    22   13,278.0   26   22,445.0   35   27,218.0   17    13,812.1           30    39,765.4    152    134,827.7
Perak                                2   (2,209.0)    1   (3,182.0)   6    5,080.0    6    5,537.0    1            907.4      5      4,831.0      24     13,944.0
Johor                               10    3,706.0     3       952.0    8    6,429.0   14   18,633.0    8    11,750.0          6    18,316.9      45      47,118.0
Penang                              17   11,557.0      5    3,015.0   11    4 349.7   16   15,606.0   13    10,605.0         14    25,406.3       65     39,897 4
Trengganu                           6       338.0      1    4,380.0    3    1,751.0    4    2,409.0    2         (730.0)      1        250.0     21       3,752.0
Pahang                              6       725.0      5    2,301.0   (1)   1,163.3    9    2,832.0   -           (534.0)     5      1,043.3      22     10,092.3
Sabah                              15    3,925.0    12    1,082.0   12    2,679.8   11    3,043.0    9    (1,020.0)           7    10,468.5      50       8,852.6
Sarawak                            23    7,131.0    13    2 059.0    9    7,147.0   11   10.880.0   13          5,430.1       8    19,790.0       56     31,843,2
Malacca                             4    3,949.0    (2)   2,719.0    2          10.5    4    3,100.0    3       5,833.0       3      3,549.0      13     12,494.6
Kedah                               3    5 229 0       1    2,000.0    7   11,558.2    2       (194.0)   1       3,778.0      1      1,634.2      12     15,079.0
Negerl Sembilan                     2      (710.0)    5    1,491.0   -         475.3    4    4,100.0   -       (2,990.0)      3    16,905.8       15     21,030.6
Kelantan                            8       883.0      9    2,742.0    7       317.7    8       207.0    6      1,079.8       5      1,523.9     48       4,911.4
Perlis                             _        -         1    1,500.0    1        319.0    3    1,402.0 -           -           _       -            5       3S918.2
Total                         141   68,629.0    76   34,337.0  91   63,725.5  127   94,773.    73    47,921.4           88   143,484.3    528    347.761.0



- 49 -
Malaysian Industrial uevelopment Finance Bhd. (MIDF)
8.6. Resource Position as of March 31, 1989 - 1991
(MI'000)
31.3.89         31.3.90     31.3.91
Long Term Domestic Resources
Paid-up capital                                            80.093          80,179       80,334
Unapproriate profit and reserves                         135.728          143,245      149.819
Provisions for doubtful accounts                          26.161          28.684        26,949
Depreciation and non-cash items                           13,821           14,853       16,009
Term loans from government                                 13.000          10,500        8,000
Others and statutory bodies                              116,071          232.058      234,097
Long-term foreign resources (including                    11,371           17,059       17,093
provision for foreign exchange fluctuation)
New borrowings  -  WBSSE                                   55.943           2,966         -
-  NIF                                   48,549           1,860          -
-  Bank Negara loan rollover             10,813            -             -
-  Loan from Petronas                      --                            -
-  AJOF                                    -             15,550       131,884
-  BNM                                                   20,000          -
Total Term Resources                                   511,550         566,954      664,185
Less:  Local currency loans oustanding                   358.333         342.879       397,568
Equity investments                                 46,285          33,023      104,573
Other fixed assets                                  6,270           6,020        5,622
Akount available for disbursement                 100,662         185.032      156,422
Less:  Undisbursed commitments                            37,100          114,300       32,300
Resources available for commitment/                63,562          70,732      124,122
(New borrowings to be raised)
Less:  Uncommitted approvals (approved                     13,200           1.400       12,700
pending acceptance)
Resources Available for Approval                   50,362          69,332      111,422



- 50 -
MALAYSIAN  INDUSTRIAL  DEVELOPMENT  FINANCE BERHAD  (MIDF)
8. 7. OUALITY OF LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIO, 1985 - 1991
Amount In MS'000
(March 31 of the Year)                            1985       1986       1987      1988       1989      1990       1991
A. Total Outstanding Portfolio /1
i.   No. of Loans                                  860       810       730        638       592        561        557
ii. Amount                                     4271909   430,970   397,688   363,594   321,920   323,249   365,189
B. Total Arrears
I.   No. of Loans in Arrears                       423       473       416        358        294       233        218
1i. Amount of Arrears                           17,023    29,522    34,508    34,371    26,328    25,417    22801
iif. Principal Affected by Arrears             141,223   171,306   146,213   127,855    77,089    58,649    45,995
C. Arrears of More Than 90 Days
I.  No. of Loans in Arrears                        272       363       354        296       242        191        168
ii. Amount of Arrears                           16,572    29,061    34,339    34,011    26,011    24,966    22,390
fii. PrincipaL Affected by Arrears              83,368   134,043   127,737   100,976    67,073    47,320    29,600
0. Arrears of More Than 365 Days                                                               -
i.  No. of Loan In Arrears                          55        73        90         86        85         73        69
ii. Amount of Arroars                            4,077     5,267     6,653      8,217     8,653      8,054    10,922
III. PrincipaL Affected by Arrears               8,665    11,485     8,511      8,191     7,722      6,821     6,518
E. Loans Rescheduled During the Year
i.   No. of Loans Rescheduled                                  2         13         8          5         6         2
ii. Amount of Loans Rescheduled                      -    3.810      7,591      3,333     6,943      3,366       436
F. Provision for Doubtful Loans                     5,088    15,229    16,673    22,837    23,236    24,830    21,187
(Cumulative Outstanding Balance)
G. Loans Under Litigation/Foreclosure
I.  No. of Loans Under Litigation/
ForecLosure                                   48        61        89         68        71         68        74
ii.  Amount of Loans Under
Litigation/Foreclosure                    14,384    22,773    21,446    22,932    27,023    30,760    36,720
N. Loans Written off During the Year
i.  No. of Loans Written Off                        13        24        22         23         17        11         15
i.  Amount Written Off                             619     1,480     3,191      1,947     1,793        219     2,064
/1  Includes loans rescheduLes and under litigation/foreclosure; only excludes loans actually written off.



- 51 -
MALAYSIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE BERHAD (MIDF)
QUALITY OF LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIO, 1985 - 1991
Ccontinued)
Amount in MS'000
(March 31 of the Year)                            1985       1986       1987      1988      1989       1990       1991
1. Total Arrears As % of Total
Portfolio Outstanding
I.   Loans in Arrears / Nurber of Loans           49.2%     58.4%     57.0%      56.1%     49.7%      41.5%     39.1%
ii.  Arrears / Loans Amount                        4.0%      6.9%      8.7%       9.5%      8.2%       7.9%      6.2%
lif. Principal Affected / Loans Amount            33.0%     39.7%     36.8X      35.2%     23.9%      18.1%     12.6%
J. Arrears of More Than 90 Days As
% of Total Portfolio
I.   Loans in Arrears / Nurber of Loans           31.6%     44.8%     48.5%      4.4%      40.9%      34.0%     30.2%
If.  Arrears / Loans Amount                        3.9%      6.7%      8.6%       9.4X      8.1%       7.7%      6.1%
iii. Principal Affected / Loans Amount            19.5%     31.1%     32.1%      27.8%     20.8%      14.6%      8.1%
K. Arrears of More Than 365 Days As
% of Total Portfolio
i.   Loans In Arrears / Number of Loans            6.4%      9.0%      12.3%     13.5%     14.4%      13.0%      12.4%
ii.  Arrears / Loans Amount                        1.0%      1.2%       1.7%      2.3%      2.7%       2.5%      3.0%
Iii. Principal Affected / Loans Amount             2.0%      2.7%      2.1%       2.3%      2.4%       2.1%       1.8%
L. Provisions As % of Total Portfolio                 1.2%      3.5%       4.2%      6.3%       7.2%      7.7%       5.8%
M. Loans Under Litigation As % of
Total Portfolio
i.   Number of Loans                               5.6%      7.5%      12.2%     10.7%      12.0%     12.1%      13.3%
1i.  Amount                                        3.4%      5.3%      5.4%       6.3%      8.4%       9.5%      10.1%
N. Collection Ratio /1                               87.5%     81.7%      82.6%     78.6%      81.8%     78.3%      80.0%
/1  Amount of principal and interest actually collected during the year as a percentage of principal and interest
(including arrears) due for coLlection during the sawe year.



- 52 -
XALAYSrIA INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPNEET FIRAICE BEREAD
8.8. ANALTSIS OF ARIEARS. 1985 - 1991
Amlount In tl,'OOO
0-90       91-180        181-365        Hore than
End Of Year               Days         Days          Days         365 Days         Total
19851
lo. Of Loans'                         151        113           104             55             423
Amount In Arrears"                    451      3,653         a,842         4,077           17,023
Of Which Principal                  343       2,630        6,763          2,858          12,594
aInterest                          102 1,023              2,079          1,219           4,429
19861
lo. Of Loans'                         110        133           157             73             473
Aounat In Arrears"                    461      6,899       16,895           5,267         29,522
Of Which Principal                  336       4 464       13 170          3 491          21 461
Interest                  125      2,435         3,125          1,176           8,061
19871
lo. Of Loanst                          62        102           162             9O             416
A*mount In Arrears "                  169      4,806       22,881           6,653         34,508
Of Which Principal                  137       3,511       1,3888          5,181          27,717
Interest                   32      1,295         3,993          1,472           6,791
1933t
lo. Of Loans'                          62         73           137             86             358
Aiount In Arrears"                    360      1,993       23,801          8,217          34,371
Of Which Principal                  240       1,312       20,622          6,825          28,999
Interest                  120         681        3,179          1,392           5,372
19891
lo. Of Loanst                          52         42           115             85             294
Amount In Arrears"t                   317      2,778        14,580         8,653          26,328
Of Which Principal                  267       1,564       13,302          7,334          22,467
Interest                   50      1,214         1,278          1,319           3,861
19901
lo. Of Loans'                          42         26            92             73             233
Asount In Arrears"                   451       1,750       15,162          8,054          25,417
Of Which Principal                  377       1,305       14,161          6,804          22,647
Interest                   74        445         1,001          1,250           2,770
1991t
lo. Of Loans'                          50          9            90             69             218
Alount In Arrears "                  411         215       11,253         10,922          22,801
Of Which Principal                  318         171       11,137         10,074          21,700
Interett                   93          44          116            848           1,101
l Refers to number of loans with arrears above $100 each.
t   Refers to net arrears.
I   Figures include leases as well.



- 53 -
9. The Size Structure and Performance of the Non-Agricultural Economy. 1978
a. The Size Structure in 1978
_M -
Nurber     Pereorn    Fixed MCt.   V lu d
sxrss. Esi 3ULSXm
b. Productivity in 1978, and Annual Growth of Value Added in 1973-78
112
VAWPerson       Va"to          VA Owh p
TSE   SSEr    MLSE.
TSE : Tiny Scale Enterprises   (1-4 employees)
SSE : Small Scale Enterprises (5-49 employees)
MLSE: Medium and Large Scale Enterprises (50 and more employees)



- 54 -
10. Special Loan Progranms Available to Small and Medium Industry, 1990 I/
FUND           LAUNCH        AMOUNT           IMPLE-           PARTICIPAT.         RATE         TENURE           SUBLOAN            EUGIBLE
AND                       MENTATnON           FINANCLAL         a. To PFIs    a. For PFIs         SIZE            PROJBCTS
STATUS                                          INSTITUT.        b. To Sub-     b. For Sub-
boffow.en      borrwen
_                                                 _                                     .~                              .    
New Investmesn     9/1985; fuUy  MS 1,700m    Bank Negara          MIDF, BIM,         a. n.a.       a. n1a.          > MSO.25m       Mfrg., agric.,
Fund (NIP)         dii- bursed                                     BPMB, some                       b. < 5 yean                      tourisn, m,ning
late 1991,                                     comm. bankm        b.
but lready                                     (inel. forein)     5.0-7.25%
use of                                                            in 1989;
reflows                                                           7.75% in
1991
Enterprise         3/1988;       MS 500m       Funds:  ENM         Industry: MIDP;   a. 0-2%        a. n.a.         na.              Ailing Bumiputea
Rchabilitation                                 Secretar. :MIDF     other sector:                                                     enterprises; also
Fund (ERF)         fully                       Assist.: HRM        5 com.banks        b. < 2%;    b. 5 years                         abandoned housing
diBbursed                   Approv.: Rehab.                       also equity                                     projects
end 1991                    Committee
AJDF OECF          10/1988.      Y37b8         Treasury            MIDF, BIM.         a. 3.5%       . 27 yrs,        <MS5m           SMEs in mfrg..
active        USS 240m                         BPMB, Bank         b. 6.5%         6 yrs. grace                    agri., tourism
(MS890m)                         Peanian               (5.9%?)   b. < 15 yrs                       (cap. <MS 5m)
AJDF EXIM          10/1988;                    Treasury            MIDF, BIM,         a. 4.85%      a. 19 yra,       <MS20m          Mfrg, agric.,
active                                         BPMB, Bank         b. <7.85%       6 yns grace                    tourism
Pertaian                         b. < 15 yrs
New Entrepreneus  12/1989;       MS 250m       Bank Negar         Perwira Habib,    a. n.a.              n.a.        <MS0.5m         New Projecu of
Fund (NEF)          ctive                                          UMBC, Mal.         b. <5%        b. <5 yrs                        Bumis in Mfrg,
Banking, BPMB,                                                    Agri., Tourism, and
MIDF                                                              Export BuS.
Industrial         3/1990;       MS 50m        MITI               SIRIM MS40m         a. Grant      a. -            MS0.01-0.1m      TA for fesibility
Technical          active                                          MEXPO MS5m         b. Matching   b. -                             studies and R&D of
Assistanre Fund                                                    BPMB  MS5m            Grant                                       SMEI; etc.
(ITAF)
Loan Fund for      3/1990;       MS 100m       Credit Guaratee    Commercial         a. 2%          a. <4 yrs       MS500-5000       Trade, repair,
Hawkers & Petty   active                       Corp.               Banks              b. 4%         b. <4 yns                        welding, etc.
Traders                                                                                                                              busines,
<MS 20m assess
Princiap Guarantee  4/1989;      MS 150m       Credit Guarntee    Commercial         a.own funds   a.                <MS0.5m         SSE with n  asset
Scheme (PGS)       active                      Corp.               Banks              b.BLR+1.5   b.-                                 <MS0.5m
% but <9%
plus 0.5%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~~~guarant. fee_                      _   _   _   _
Industrial         LAunch        MS 500m       Bank Negara        BPMB: Wood         a. 4.75%       a. n.a.         MS0.1-10m        'Adjustment'
Adjustment Fund    2/91;funds                                      MIDF: Textiles    b. <7.75%    b. <8 yrs                          investments in
(lAF)              not yet                                         B[M:Engineerg                                                     wood/textile/eng.
available by                                                                                                      subsectors
12/91
World Bank Small  1985-90;       USS 8Gm       Treasury            BPMB, MIDF        a. 5%          a.15 yrs,        < MSI.5m        Non-agric. SEEs,
Scale Eat.                       (WB 47m;                                            b. 7.25-        3 yr grace                      cap <MS1.5m
Project (SSE)                    GoM 33m to                                             7.5%        b. < 15 yes;
BPMB)                                                              Avg. 5 yns                      Initially only Bumi
SEES with cap.
______|                             _ __________  ______ _|  <MS0.3m
World Bank         1987-91;      Initially US$  None              RElM USS2Gm (cut  a. IBRD        a. 13-15 yrs,     <10% of         Any seomr
DFC Project                      65m, but      (IBRD loan         to 15m);           standard        3-4 yr grace    IBRD loan
then reduced   directly to PFls)    SDB USS45m     terms;         b. < 13-15 yrn
to US$ 25m.                      (cut to 1Om)       b. MS at
variable
rates
11 There are further loan scbemes, such as MARA Credits for Bumiputean SMEs, a Nursery Factory Scheme, and a Tourism Loan Fund.



