Da cummtao
The World Bank
FO OFCIAL USE ONLY
Rept N.. P-3878-NA
-S
REaORT ANiDREOWO
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IN ATIONAL BANK FOR RECO         ON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONdi A
PROPOSED LOAI
IN AN ANDUNT EQUIVAIEN TO USS52.1 MILLION
TO M&LAYSIA
FOR THE
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
September 26, 1984
Thsb     ekM T !-s _      _W_                  F r mda    e~  ynikf WYIn e Pvf S of
dr id   m           If  e_ mwnt edol be dbud im* WeLd BI  ddzd



P-DSOI/SP-324/9-17-84Icc/sw
CURRCY EQUIVALENTS
-  Currency Uit   -   2inggt (!S)
Calendar 1983       April 1984
US$1.00         =   Ms2.30               1M52.25
11$1.00         =   us$0.43                USS0.44
FISCAL YEAR
Covernment of Nalaysia
January 1 - December 31
Malaysian Industrial Developmnt Finance Berhad
April 1   March 31
Bank           Nalaysia Berhad
January 1 -Deceuber 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BDD       -   Bumiputera Development De-partment in Malaysian Development
Finance Berhad
BPWB      -   Bank Perbangurnn Mala-ysia Berhad (Malaysiaz Development
Bank, Ltd.)
BUM       -   Bank Negra Malaysia (the Central Bank of Malaysia)
CCDSE     -   Coordinating CounciL for ;le Development of Small Enterprises
EDP       -   Entrepreneur Development Program
EPR       -   Effective- Protection Rate
FRI       -   Forest Research Institute
FTD       -   Food and Technology Division of the Malaysian Agricultural
Research and Development Institute
FTZ       -   Free Trade Zone
CDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -   Gross National Product
IEU       -   Industrial Extension Unit (of SIRIM)
LSEs      -   Large-Scale Enterprises
KARA      -   Majlis Amanah Rakyat
MARDI     -   Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MEDEC     -   Malaysian Entrepreneurial Development Center
MIDF      -   Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berbad
MIDFCCS   -   MIDF Consultancy and Corporate Services Sendrian Berhad
HIEL      -   Malaysian Industrial Estate Sendrian Berhad
,YSEs     -   Medium-Scale Enterprises
NEP       -   New Economic Policy
NPC       -   NWational Productivity Center
SED       -   Small Enterprise Division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry
SIRIM     -   Standards and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia
SSEs      -   Small-Scale Enterprises
SSI       -   Small-Scale Industries
TA        -   Technical Assistance
TSEs      -   Tiny-Scale Enterprises
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
SMALL-SCA   ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:             Malaysia
Beneficiaries:        Bank  I n          Malaysia Bhd. (BRIG),  alWaysian Indus-
trial DeveLopmet Finace Bhd. (MIDF), Small Enterprise
Division (SED) of the Ministry of Trade and Industry,
National Productivity Center (NPC), Malaysian Entrepre-
neurial Development Center (MEDEC), Food Technology
Division (FTD) of the Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Authority, Forest Research Institute
(FRI) and Standard and Industrial Research Institute of
Malaysia (SIWR).
Amount:               US$52.1 million equivalent (including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.l million).
Terms:                Standard variable interest rate; 15 years including 3
years of grace.
Relending Terms:      The project comprises a credit component (US$46.6 mil-
lion equivalent) and a technical assistance (TA) compo-
nent (US$5.4 million equivalent). The Government of
Malaysia would relend the credit component to BPMB and
MIDF at a fixed interest rate of 7.3Z p.a., bear the
foreign exchange risk and the risk of interest rate
fluctuation on the Bank loan for a period of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. BPMB and MIDF would onlend
the funds to its subborrowers at lending rates ranging
between 9Z and more than 11Z. The TA component will be
made av.Lilable as a budgetary grant to the participating
TA agencies and as interest free loans to BPMB and MIDF.
Project Description:  The prcject will develop small-scale enterprises (SSEs)
in Mal:aysia by significantly increasing the availability
of institutional credit and expanding and improving TA
to provide integrated services to those SSEs which
presently do not receive adequate ins-titutional credit
and high quality technical assistance. It will also
strengthen BPMB institutionally, and expand MIDF's SSE
lending. Over the 3-year project period, some 1,100-
1,200 subloans will be made with an average size of
US$75,000-US$89,000. Under the TA component, the
project will provide staff training for the participat-
ing agencies, equipment for workshops, laboratories and
classrooms, expansion of physical facilities and
This dccument has a restictd distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties Its contents may not otherwise be disdoswd without World Bank authorization.



recruitment of experts/advisors.  The project will aLso
strengthen the coordination mechanism for financial and
technical assistance and the monitoring and evaluation
of all TA programs. The project is expected to create
more than 12,000 jobs at relatively low costs. The
major risk is that the loan could take longer to
disburse than currently estimated in view of the uncer-
tainties of the economic environment. This risk will be
minimized, however, by considerable strengthening of the
participating credit and technical assistance agencies
which are expected to contribute to more intensive and
efficient promotion. Another risk is that the coordina-
tion among many TA and credit agencies is not
effective. Much would depend on CCDSE and SED in this
regard.  Provision has been made in the project to
strengthen coordination and for periodic consultation
becween the Bank and the Government on this subject. A
risk particular to BP(B is that it could face diffical-
ties raising the resources to achieve its projected
volume of operations. However, the Government has
agreed to provide BPKB with the necessary resources and
support its private borrowing efforts.
- IUS$ million -
Estimated Cost:                                Local   Foreign   Total
Credit Component                              74.7      18.6     93.3
Technical Assistance                            3.2      6.3      9.5
Subtotal Ia                                 77.9      24.9    102.8
Contingencies
Physical                                        0.3      0.4      0.7
Price                                          0.2       0.3      0.5
Subtotal                                     0.5       0.7      1.2
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                       -       0.1      0.1
Total Financing Required                     78.4     25.7    104.1
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan (incLuding front-end fee)         28.0      24.1     52.1
BEMB (through Government)                   33.4        -      33.4
MIDF                                         13.3       -      13.3
Government                                    3.7      1.6      5.3
Total                                     78.4      25.7    104.1
/a  Including taxes which would be applicable to equipment only (included in
the cost of technical assistance) and are estimated to be insignificant.



- iii -
US$ Million
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual                               2.7   14.9   16.8   10.2    4.6    2.9
Cumulative                           2.7   17.6   34.4   44.6   49.2   52.1
Rate of Return:                        NA
*      Staff Appraisal Report:               No. 5121-MA, dated September 4, 1984
Map: IBRD No. 18397
.



REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR A SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia for the equivalent of USS52.1 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee, to help finance the Small-ScaLe Enterprise Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including-3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. About USS46.6 million equivalent of the proposed loan
*       would be onlent to Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMP) and Malaysian
Industrial Development Finance Berhad (NIDF) for 15 years, including 3 years
of grace, at a fiAed interest rate of 7.3Z. Of the US$5.4 million equivalent
for technicaL assistance, about US$0.9 million wuuld be onient to BP.B and
MIDF interest free and the balance would be made availabile as a budgetary
grant to the participating technical agencies. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Government.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report. "Malaysia: Structural Change and
Stabilization" (No. 4829-MA), was issued on November 15th, 1983.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,860 in 1982 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented growth strategy; a
favorable development of the world economy; good economic and financial
management; and, not least, stable social and political institutions. Three
specific elements have been important: first, substantial attention and
priority has been given to agriculture resulting in high productivity gains in
the sector which have cushioned against occasional steep price declines;
second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12% p.a. in the last two
decades, following first an import substituting pattern, but later
increasingLy oriented towards exports; third, in a very open economy with
exports and imports recentLy averaging more than 50% of GDP, exports have
diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and tin to include palm
oil, petroLeum and manufactured goods.
4.       -Xalaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55Z of the
population indigenous Malays, 35Z Chinese and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities and has also been struggling with a serious poverty prob-
lem. The incidence of poverty covers all ethnic groups, but remains
disproportionately high among Malays; their average per capita incomes were
only half those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government declared a



New Economic Policy (NEP) and accorded the highest priority to eradicating
poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment and ownership
of assets. Specific quantitative targets, to be achieved by 1990, were estab-
lished for these objectives. Particular emphasis has been given to accelera-
ted growth of the modern sector (i.e. outside traditional agriculture), as
about 1 million jobs (or 90 of all new employment) need to be created in the
non-agricultural sectors during 1985-90. In the mid-term of this program,
substantial progress has been made.  By 1983, the incidenye of poverty had
declined to about 30Z of all households, the Bumipucera 1 share of corporate
assets had increased and there have been significant changes in the ethnic
discribution of emplovment.
5.        The Halaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has replaced agriculture as the major contributor to GDP
and exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the
cutting edge of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable
and dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last fifteen
years. Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum and
more recentLy LNG) has proved important as some of Malaysia's traditional
major foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin produc-
tion has steadily declined in the face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many
mines and increasing costs of extraction. Although timber production has
recently been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental
environmental consequences and the Government has plans for restricting
logging in the future. Finally, rubber production has been fluctuating across
a decLining trend for several years. Whilst factors specific to the cultiva-
tion of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration
of the young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a
major structural change in the MYalaysian economy, as ic appears that the
agricultural labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn,
this suggests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural
sector in years to come, both to maintain agricultural production as well as
to tackle the large extant problem of rural poverty. In recognition of this,
the Government has recently published a policy document to guide future
agricultural development which takes into account the emerging trends in the
sector.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularly true in the most recent international
commodity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber and petroleum increased rapidly and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 25% in the same period and real national
income grew by more than 11% p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8%, representing a Loss of
1/   "Bumiputera" literally means "son of the soil."  The word is used to
refer to Malays and other indigenous groups. In subsequent sections of
this report, this group will be referred to as the "target group."



-3-
national income of about 5%. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combination of falling commodity prices and an expan-
sionary fiscaL stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and balance
of payments deficits; thus in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged 11Z of CNP, while the overall public sector
deficit averaged 18% of GNP. Overall GDP growEh averaged 6Z p.a. and
inflation initially accelerated before falling to 6% in l982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically ana abroad. Domestic borrowing was largely non-
inflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, from the national oil company
and from the commercial banks. Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to CNP
grew from about 37% to nearly 50% between 1980 and 1982. Increasing propor-
tions of the deficits had to be 'inanced from abroad and the level of dis-
bursed public external debc almost doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16Z to
32% of GINP); there was, in addiL.an, an important shift in the sources of
borrowing, away from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of
the low levels of externaL borrowing of the previous decade, this surge in the
1980-82 period did not give rise to a high burden of debt service.  As a
proportion of exports, debt service on public and publicly guaranteed debt was
5.6Z in 1982 and 5.8% at the end of 1983.
8.        The unsustainabiLity of deficits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 has been clearly recognized by the Government and a policy of
expenditure restraint was implemented through 1983 and strongly affirmed in
the 1984 budget. In the course of 1983, development expenditures of the
federal government fell by 20%. and the federal deficit was reduced substan-
tially - from 17.7% of GNP in 1982 to 10.2% in 1983. However, due to a con-
tinuing expansion in expenditures by other parts of the public sector, the
overall public sector deficit did not decrease as sharply as the federal
deficit. In addition, private sector investment expenditures rose by 12% in
real terms, refLecting largely the impact of higher outlays by quasi-public
agencies currently misclassified in this sector.Y This offset to an extent
the adjustments being made in the federal government. As a result, the
balance of payments current account deficit registered only a small improve-
ment - declining from 12.4% of GNP in 1982 to 10.5Z in 1983. In 1984, the
Government expects that greater control over the consolidated public sector
combined with continued restrictions on federal government spending will help
to improve the current account deficit to the level of 9.0% of GNP. In order
to attain this target, it will be particularly necessary to control the
*        spending of public enterprises as well as off-budget agencies.
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery and continued
expenditure restraint by the Government, the fiscal and external deficits of
2/   According to the classification of the Government, major off-budget
agencies like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the heavy
industry corporation) are not included in the public sector.



-4-
Malaysia should reach sustainable levels over the medium term. With the heavy
borrowing recently undertaken. and with anticipation of future, albeit lower,
external deficits, the debt service ratio will increase later in the decade.
It is, however, expected to stabilize at acceptable levels (between 15Z-202 of
exports). At the same time, the present and ongoing expenditure retrenchment.
although starting from a high level. has placed the public investment budget
under strain and is likely to affect future growth prospects. In this regard,
it is becoming increasingly important for the Government to ensure the effi-
ciency of the public sector investment program. Recognition has also been
given by the Government of the need to tackle some of the economy's structural
difficulties. As noted above, a National Agricultural Policy has been
annourced. A comprehensive review of development strategy is contained in the
recent mid-term review of the Fourth Malaysia Plan released in April 1984;
among the initiatives already announced is proposed "privatization" of many
public sector activities. Induscrial studies (on export and production
incentives) are being undertaken, in conjunction with the Bank, to ensure the
continued contribution of this important sector to the economy. A series of
initiatives are thus underway to sustain development, albeit in more difficult
financial circumstances than were foreseen before the onset of the recession.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KALAYSIA 3'
10.       The Bank has, co date, made 57 loans to Malaysia, totalling
USS1,541.5 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
-water supplv, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
cransport. As of March 31, 1984, the effectize loans to Malaysia held by the
Bank amounted to US$1,261.3 million. A total of 34 loans to Malaysia have
been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary oi Bank loans and IFC
investments.
11.       In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy towards Malaysia has
aimed at assiscing the Government to alleviate poverty in the country. The
Government thrust in this area has been twofold: first, to maintain a high
overall rate of growth for the economy and thus facilitate and encourage a
labor shift from low to higher wage occupations; second, to raise the produc-
tivity and incomes of farmers directly through a variety of agricultural
projects and programs as most poverty is concencrated in the rural areas. The
Bank has been associated with both aspects of this strategy - by assisting the
Government to overcome impediments to growth (for example, by lending for
vocational education and for power) and also by lending for a long sequence of
agricultural projects. These have indeed enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreigr exchange
earnings of the councry, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
3/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Eleventh Power Project, approved by the Board of Directors on June 7,
1984.



-5-
12.       Malaysia's commirment to assist its low-income groups has not
diminished in the wake of the recent economic difficulties. As noted, these
difficulties are in part structural, fostered by very rapid and successful
development, and in part financial, resulting from the recession and internal
countercyclical policies. Tackling these problems, which entail tight fiscal
and foreign exchange constraints likely to persist for some time, has become
the dominant objective of economic management.
13.       In its lending strategy, the Bank intends to continue lending to
agriculture and thus tackle poverty directly. At the same time, recognizing
the changed economic situation and prospects, and responding to a Government
request, the Bank is also assisting in sectors where serious structural
problems or institutional deficiencies exist. Thus, the Bank will lend to
such sectors as education, transport, power and industry. The proposed
project will contribute to the Government's employment and restructuring
objectives; as manufacturing growth remains vital to the country's medium- and
long-term prospects, other initiatives are being considered in this sector.
14.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has recently been seriously affected by the
country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in project dis-
bursements, which dropped from US$lll million in FY82 and US$137 million in
FY83 to US$87 million in FY84. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of
the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative undisbursed amounts, was 0.19
in FY82, 0.22 in FY83 and 0.14 in FY84 (compared to regional averages of 0.19,
0.20 and 0.20, respectively, in the same years).
15.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia are: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and the
limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala
Lumpur. These reviews and the corrective action taken by the agencies subse-
quently should have a positive impact on project implementation and disburse-
ments. In this respect, the recent approval of project restructuring and/or
increased disbursement rates for five agricultural projects under the SAP
should be of considerable help. In addition, further reviews will be under-
taken with the Malaysian authorities when necessary. It is also proposed to
reinforce the implementation reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements
and procurement (a disbursement seminar was arranged in June 1982 and a
*   procurement seminar was conducted in March 1983, both in Kuala Lumpur) for the
benefit of the implementing agencies.
16.       IFC has made four investments in Malaysia totalling US$8.7 million.
The total investments held by IFC, as of March 31, 1984, amounted to US$0.9
million (Annex II).
17.       As noted earlier, at end 1983, Malaysia's debt service ratio on
public and publicly guaranceed debt was 5.8%. In the same year, debt service
on IBRD obligations constituted about 6% of total debt service. With the
rapid increase in market borrowings in the last three years, the proportion of



- 6 -
IBRD disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15Z in 1979-
80 to less than 9% at end 1983. Various projections, on a variety of assump-
tions, suggest that the IBRD share in debt service and total disbursed debt of
Malaysia is likely to remain well below 1OX through the rest of the decade.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
18.       Manufacturing Sector Overview.  The manufacturing sector has been
the single largest contributor to the growth of gross domestic product (GDP)
during the 1970s in Malaysia. With an average rate of growth of almost 12%
p.a., compared to less than 8Z p.a. for GDP, the manufacturing sector's share
of GDP increased from 14% in 1971 to almost 19% in 1980. Manufacturing
employment grew at 7.9% p.a. during 1974-80, almost twice the rate of overall
national employment during the 1970s. Nevertheless, a recent analysis by the
Bank pointed out a number of structural problems requiring policy adjust-
ments: (i) concentration of export industries in Free Trade Zones (FTZs)
which have limited linkages with and, hence, limited benefits for the rest of
the Malaysian economy; (ii) misallocation of resources because of procection
granted on a case-by-case basis, resulting in import substitution industries
having high effective protection rates (EPRs) compared with negative EPRs for
non-FTZ exporters, and different EPRs among various subsectors or even firms
within the same subsector; and (iii) capital bias of the fiscal incentive
system.
19.       The Government has become increasingly aware of these problems and
of the need to take corrective measures. It is undertaking a UNDP-financed
and Bank-executed Industrial Policy Studies Project, which is expected to be
completed by the end of 1984. These studies cover assessment of EPRs and
domestic resource cost, cost-benefit analysis of FTZs, the effects of transfer
pricing, impact of tariff and non-tariff incentives, evaluation of barriers to
further industrial development, and consideration of adjustment problems of
shifting to a new economic and industrial policy environment. The results of
the Industrial Policy Studies Project are expected to provide the economic
framework and rationale for designing appropriate industrial and trade poli-
cies for the 1990s and beyond.
20.       Small-Scale Enterprise Sector.  Adequate data for analysis are
available only on registered firms (the "formal sector") in Peninsular
Malaysia.  These firms are classified into tiny-scale enterprises (TSEs),
employing less than 5 persons; small-scale enterprises (SSEs), employing 5-49
persons; medium-scale enterprises (MSEs), employing 50-199 persons; and large-
scale enterprises (LSEs), employing 200 or more persons. Of the estimated
200,000 non-agricultural establishments in 1981, about 75% were TSEs, which
accounted for about 20% of employment but only 7% of value-added and 6% of
fixed assets. For manufaccuring alone, TSEs contributed much less to
employment (about 3%) and value-added (only 1%). SSEs are a much more
important segment of the Malaysian non-agricultural economy, accounting for
about 20% of the firms, 32% of employment, 29% of value-added and 25% of fixed
assets. A large majority of SSEs are in manufacturing, wholesale and retail



- 7 -
trade, and construction. Almost half of the manufacturing firms were SSEs,
and they were responsible for approximately 25% of employment and 15X of the
value-added and fixed assets.
21.       SSEs are also quite efficient users of labor and ctpital; while the
average TSE was only about one-third as efficient in labor utilization
(value-added per person) as all firms combined, the SSE average almost matched
the overall average; the capital productivity (the ratio of value-added to the
value of fixed assets) of an average SEE, particularly in the manufacturing
sector, was superior to that of all other size segments.  Small-scale
manufacturers (SSIs) in industries, such as fish preservation and processing,
rice milling, leather footwear, wooden furniture and fixtures, pottery, china,
earthenware, auto spare parts and accessories, were found to be more efficient
users of both capital and labor than medium- and large-scale manufacturing
enterprises (MLIs) in these activities. In terms of capital use alone, SSIs
were efficient also in coconut and paLm kernel oil, sago and tapioca, biscuits
and confectionary products, knitting mills, saw mills, window and door mills,
rubber smokehouses, structural clay products, foundries, wire and wire pro-
ducts, agricultural machinery and equipment, electrical industrial machinery,
and bicycle assembly. The empirical analysis, therefore, illustrates that
many SSIs are relativeLy productive and have the potential to grow and
modernize and thus make an important contribution towards greater productive
employment, income generation and poverty alleviation.
22.       In 1971, the Government of Malaysia launched the New Economic Policy
(NEP), among whose major goals is the reduction of poverty and the restructur-
ing of the economy so as to reduce income disparities between Bumiputeras and
non-Bumiputeras. It was recognized that SSE growth had a special role tL play
toward meeting several NEP goals, such as a wider geographic dispersion of
industry, and the development of entrepreneurship, especially among target
group SSEs. Finally, as SSEs are relatively labor intensive, they will play a
major role in absorbing a growing and increasingly urban labor force, and thus
accommodate the demographic shift which is taking place in Malaysia.
23.       The target group enterprises are generally among the smaller and
less developed SSEs, and play a relatively insignificant role, particularly in
manufacturing. They accounted for only about 25Z of all non-agricultural
enterprises in 1980 and 1981, generated only slightly more than 1OZ of the
*    employment and owned less than 7% of the fixed assets.  And while the target
group owns one out of four TSEs/SSEs, the case is only one out of ten for
MSEs/LSEs.  In the manufacturing sector, these enterprises accounted for only
10% of the number of establishments, 7% of employment, and 5% of fixed assets
in 1981, while their shares were somewhat higher in the tiny/small size
segments than in the medium/large size segments. Within each size category,
the average size of these enterprises also tends to be smaller than that of
other segments of the population. These enterprises are highly concentrated
in rice milling, bakery products, tobacco products, printing and publishing,
clay products, tailoring and wood furniture making. A comparison of labor and
capital productivities across the industries shows considerable variance, but
also generally higher productivities for enterprises owned by other than the
target group; the same pattern is displayed by more aggregate data.



- 8 -
24.       Constraints to SSE DeveLooment.  The constraints to SSE development
can be grouped into three principal categories: government policies which
create an unfavorable macro tranework: inadequate managerial and technical
knowledge, which results in inefficient operations; and the inability to raise
the needed finance, which inhibits new entrants into comerce and industry and
limits the exp-nsion o£ existing enterprises. The Government is adopting an
integrate. and balanced approach to alleviate these constraints.  In respect
of the macro framework, t-e Governmean's aim is to orovide a neutral incentive
system. Tovwards this end, the industrial Policy Studies Project (para. 19) is
expected to p'rovide detaiLed recommendations to eliminate the present policy
biases cowards capital as against Labor and large as against small firms. To
increase managri il and technical knowLedge. t.he Government has, for some
years, provided vzrious kinds of training and other fEacilities- Unfortu-
natelv, the programs were uncoordinated and without any overrall coherent
plan. As a result, the agencies are weak and their programs cost-ineffec-
tive.  the project would strengthen key technical assistance agencies and
their programc, and also enhance coordination (para. 35). To aLleviate the
SSEs' inability to raise the needed finance, the Government has used ma-datory
credit allocation s-hemes at subsidized rates. This aspect pertains directly
to the financial sector, and is discussed in the following section.
The Financial Sector
25.       Structure.  Malaysia's financial system is fairly well developed.
On rhe banking side, it comprises the centraL bank (Bank Negara), commercial
banks, finance companies, merchant banks and disco&nt houses.  The non-bank
financial intermediaries are the provident and pension funds, insurance
companies, savings institurions, some speciaLized institutions (principally
for housing), development banks, two stock exchanges and some unit trusts.
The capital market is dominated by government securities (in terms of total
funds r-aised) and, although becoming more active recently, is not yet very
significant in the financial system.
26.       As of December 31, 1983, Bank Negara accounted for about 11  of the
total assets of the financial system. The 38 commercial banks (of which 22
were domestic), with a total of 664 banking offices, are the largest segment
of the financial system, with 45% of the total assets. In the non-banking
sector, provident and pension funds are, by far, the most important, with
about 15% of total assets, while the development fiaance institutions
accounted for about 3Z. Included in the Latter are Bank Pembangunan Malaysia
Berhad (BPWB) and Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad (MIDF),
which will be the channels for the credit component under the project.  BPMB
was created specifically for lending to Bumiputeras and is wholly owned by the
Government; MIDF is Malaysia's onil predominantly privately-owned and managed
development bank.
27.       Interest Rates.  InteresE rates in Malaysia are, in general, market
determined. These rates have nistorically been relativeLy stable and suostan-
tially positive in a low inflation economy. During 1982, one-month deposit
rates ranged between 7.OZ-8.75t and 12-monch rates between 9.25Z-1O.50Z, with
modal rates at year-end of 8Z and 107. respectively. On the lending side, most
interest rates generally were 11Z-13%, with the weighted average rate at year-



- 9 -
end of all commercial banks being 12.3%. Interest rates in 1983 remained
about the same, with deposit rates on shorter maturities rising a little and
those on longer maturities declining by about I percentage point, while the
weighted average lending rate of all commercial banks declined to 11.6Z as of
December 31, 1983.  These races are all substantially positive in real terms,
given inflation of 5.8Z in 1982 and 3.72 in 1983, and the Bank estimates that
domestic inflation will remain relativeLy low.  In addition to these general
leading rates, an estimated 25% of total outstanding credit is at lower.
mandated rates for "priority" sectorsipurposes such as poverty eradication
(0-2%) and social restructuring (5Z). Races for agriculture and housing Loans
by Government-owned specialized financial institutions are also below market
rates. Nevertheless. the average rates for the total outstanding credit are
reasonable; for the major sectors of agriculture, manufacturing and trade, the
commercial banks' weighted average rates were 11.9%, 11.2% and 11.6% respec-
tively as of December 31, 1983.
28.       Financing of Small-Scale Enterprises.  SSEs obtain credit from
commercial banks and from specialized financial institutions created for that
purpose. The commercial banks, which account for the major share of total
institutional credit to SSEs, lend to them at below market rates under a
mandatory credit allocation scheme which fixes a quota for each bank. The two
priLncipal specialized institutions, BPNB and Majlis Amanah Rakyat (MARA), Lend
only to the target group.  X-sA 'ends to very small borrowers (in amounts
generally not exceeding MS50,000) at highly subsidized rates, while BPMB lends
to small- and medium-size enter-rises. The combined loans outstanding of
these two institutions to SSEs are 2Z-3Z of the banking sector's total out-
standing Loans to SSEs. ,1IDF's loans to target group SSEs at present
constitute only a small proportion of its total portfolio. Both BPMB and MIDF
provide long-term capital in the form of project-based lending and are capable
of helping small entrepreneurs in project design and implementation.
29.       Commercial banks are required to Lend to all SSEs at an interest
rate of 7.5Z-8.5Z. As there is no rediscounting or reimbursement mechanism,
this generally resuLts in a negative spread. Nevertheless, commercial bank
lending to SSEs has continued to grow because of penalties if the mandatory
targets set by Bank Negara are not met. Total outstanding loans to SSEs rose
trom M$2.9 billion at the end of 1981 to MS3.5 billion at the end of 1983,
when they were about 10% of the total portfolio.  Although exact da ta are not
avaiLable, short-term coLlateralized loans for working capital account for a
high proportion of the total outstanding credit to SSEs; the low rates at
which the commercial banks are required to lend give them no incentive to lend
e        longer term on project basis.  Sectorally, trade accounted for a high propor-
tion and manufacturing for a relatively :ery smalL share.  The share of target
group borrowers in the outstanding Loans for SSEs has been under 2,Z for loans
"p to MS50,000, and below 20Z for larger Loans. It should aiso be noted that
c3mmercial banks do not provide supporting technical services t- unsophis-
ticated borrowers. The project will increase long-term institutionaL credit
principally to finance manufacturing projects. and couple it with technical
assistance to provide an integrated package of finance and technical services
for the SSEs in the target group, which presently do not receive adequate
institutionai credit and quality technical assistance.



- 10 -
Bank Strategy for Industrial Sector Lending
30.       The proposed loan will be the Bank's first industry-related opera-
tion in Malaysia in some two decades. While the project focusses on the
small-scale sector, it has contributed to a dialogue on more general indus-
trial sector issues and to the development of a broader lending program. The
Government recognizes the role the industrial sector has to play if the
country is to meet its overall growth and employment objectives. To come to
grips with major sectoral issues, the Government has already undertaken an
Industrial Policy Studies Project (para. 19), which is being satisfactorily
implemented under close supervision by the Bank. Its results, expected by the
end of 1984, will lead to further discussions with the Government on specific
policy reforms. The Bank plans to give operational support to the policy
recommendations which will emerge through an industrial development finance
project which is currently in the identification stage. In the meanwhile, the
proposed project has been designed to address the constraints on SSE devel-
opment (para. 24) and to diversify entrepreneurship within this subsector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was prepared by the Industry Division of the Economic
Planning Unit (Prime Minister's Office), the Small Enterprise Division of the
Ministry of Trade and Industry, and the Bank. The project was appraised in
January and April 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D. C. from
August 20-23, 1984; the Malaysian delegation was led by Mr. Shaharuddin Hj.
Haron, Secretary, Finance Division, Treasury. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
5121-MA) dated September 4, 1984, is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
32.       The main objective of the project is, over the three-year period
1985-87, to develop SSEs of the target group with owners' equity of up to
M$300,000 (US$133,000). The project aims to: (i) improve, expand and
rationalize the technical assistance (TA) programs for SSEs, and strengthen
the institutions providing those programs; (ii) increase the supply of longer-
term institutional credit which can be tapped by potential borrowers in the
target group, undertake a major institution-building effort for BPMB, and
expand the SSE program of MIDF; and (iii) improve the coordination of
financial and technical services, so that they receive, in an integrated
fashion, the full range of services needed to modernize.                               6
33.       The project will have two broad components: TA and credit.  The TA
component will provide both management and technical support to SSEs by
strengthening participating Government agencies through training of staff;
expansion of physical facilities; provision of demonstration, laboratory and
workshop equipment and transportation; and appointment of consultants. The TA
will focus particularly on food processing; light engineering and metal work-
ing; wood, bamboo and rattan-based industries; and selected construction
materials, which together account for more than 60% of all employment and
value-added of the SSE sector. Under the credit component, loans will be made



- 11 -
by BPMB and MIDF over a three-year period to finance fixed assets and
permanent working capital requirements of target group SSEs in all sectors.
Technical Assistance Component
34.       Participating Agencies.  In addition to the Small Enterprise
Division (SED) of the Ministry of Trade and Industry, which is operationaLly
responsible for all SSE development programs, five major TA agencies will
participate in the project. The National Productivity Center (NPC) and
Malaysian Entrepreneurial Development Center (MEDEC) will provide managerial
assistance (management, marketing, finance, bookkeeping, etc.) to existing and
new entrepreneurs. The Food Technology Division (FMD) of the Malaysian
Agricultural Research and Development Institute, the Standards and Industrial
Research Institute of Malaysia (SIRIX) and the Forest Research Institute CFRI)
will provide technical assistance to specific sectors. These are the prin-
cipal institutions in the country offering TA to SSEs and account for the bulk
of the TA programs. Of the five TA agencies, two will offer managerial
assistance, one of which will be exclusively for new and potential entrepre-
neurs; the other three offer sector-specific technical assistance. Any client
under the program will consequently deal with two TA agencies at most.
35.       Project Coordination and the Role of SED. The SED was established
in 1981 to oversee the development of SSEs in the country. It is aLso the
Secretariat of the Coordinating Council for the Development of Sma1L Enter-
prises (CCDSE). also set up in 1981, which is responsible for overall policy
and program coordination. However, actual program coordination at the agency
level, as well as at the client level, is not very effective at present. To
improve the micro level coordination, all the narticipating agencies, includ-
ing BPMB and MIDF, have formed a committee called the Action Committee for
Small Enterprise Development Project which wiLl meet fortnightly and discuss
the status of individual clients and coordinate their work with those
clients. In addition, the SED has created a new position of a Project
Coordinator who will attend all meetings of the Action Committee, monitor its
work and act as the link between this micro level committee and the macro
level CCDSE. The Project Coordinator will be appointed no Later than
December 31, 1984. Understandings have been reached with the Government on
the detailed coordination mechanism, though it is recognized that the coordi-
nation mechanism agreed now may need to be modified in light of the actual
£        project implementation experience.  It has therefore been agreed the
Government will prepare an annual report for the Bank starting December 31,
1985, on progress being made .n improving coordination which will provide the
basis for periodic consultations (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
36.       At present, monitoring and evaluation of TA programs for SSEs in
.Malaysia is not fully adequate. Under the pro,ect, the SED will engage an
expatriate advisor for two years to deveLop systems for monitoring and eval-
cating the TA programs of the agencies which are members of the CCDSE, with
emphasis on the agencies participating in the project. The monitoring and
evaluation systems will enable the: (i) Government to aLlocate resources more
effectively; (ii) agencies to evaluate their programs and improve them; and
(iii) CCDSE to improve its program and policy deveLopment work. The SED will
also undertake a number of marketing related functions, including the



- 12 -
development and implementation of a subcontracting program, and vill improve
the Government's procurement program for SSEs. It will also act as a reposi-
tory of specialized information on SSEs.
37.       Other Technical Assistance Agencies.  UPC is the principal
institution in the country to provide entrepreneurship, management training
and advisory services to existing SSEs. Under the project, it wilL provide
training and extension services to existing SSEs in all aspects of manage-
ment. To ensure uniformity in course contents and better coordination with
the technical agency concerned, NPC will offer its management training and
consulting programs on a sectoral basis. A three-year series of 2-3 day
courses will be offered over the project implementation period; all trainees
will subsequently be visited by extension officers.  In addition, NPC will                 l
also hold "how to" one-day workshops on selected subjects, such as inventory
control, cash flow management, etc.
38.       HEDEC's role is to train potentiaL entrepreneurs to create new
SSEs. MEDEC'swork will focus on motivation, management skills, project
selection, feasibility studies, project preparation, financing, and company
formation. It will also undertake field follow-up and short refresher semi-
nars for its graduates. and counseL the participants individually. A signifi-
cant number of MEDEC's trainees have been sponsored by BPMB and other organi-
zations. In addition to improving the quality of its management-oriented
training programs, NEDEC also plans to increase the number of trainees.
39.       FTD is the principal organization in Malaysia for developing the
food processing industry. Under the project, FTD will expand its training and
extension work to bring the level of expertise of small food processors up to
a point where they can compete more effectively in the marketplace. The
facilities to be provided by the project will enable FTD to markedly improve
the quality of training because the inadequate, small research-type equipment
which has, out of necessity, been used for training will be replaced by on-
line processing equipment suitable for SSE food processing plants. This will
enable FDT to make much more effective demonstrations, and to provide entre-
preneurs with "hands-on" training. The project will also enable FTD to expand
its 'adoption" and 'intensive extension" programs which involve working very
closely with the clients.
40.       FRI is the most knowledgeabLe and best suited organization in                    a
Malaysia to fill a void by providing technical training and consultancy in
wood, bamboo, and rattan products. As FRI's SSE training program will be new,
its full-scale operation is not expected until the second half of 1985.  The
separate formal training courses for wood, bamboo and rattan products will
provide SSEs with both design and manufacturing training. In addition, FRI
will also advise individual encrepreneurs, including BPMB and HIDF clients and
NPC and MEDEC management program trainees.
41.       SIRIM is responsible for establishing industrial standards in
Malaysia and for undertaking various kinds of industrial research. Under the
project, SIRIM will provide technical training and consulting in the light
engineering, construction material, and plastics subsectors. No other organ-
ization in Malaysia has the technical knowledge or facilities to meet the



- 13 -
needs of the SSIs in these subsectors. Its present program of training and
extension services will be substantially expanded by adding new staff, train-
ing existing as well as new staff, constructing new physical facilities and
adding x-orkshop and classroom equipment.
Credit Component
42.       Under the credit component, medium- and long-term loans will be made
by BPMB and MIDF to an estimated 1,100 to 1,200 individual Bumiputera SSEs
over the three-year project period. BPMB and MIDF were selected because they
are specialized development finance institutions with long experience in term
lending and have close relationships with the extension service institurions.
43.       Bank Pembangunan Malaysia Berhad (BPMB)  was established by the
Government in 1974 as one of the special institutional vehicles to encourage
the active participation of target group entrepreneurs in commerce and
industry. Since then it has grown into a sizeable institution with a total
staff of 417, including 161 professionals. The promotional mandate called for
BPMB to provide services beyond those of conventional development banks, such
as participation in the encrepreneur development program, marketing assistance
through one of its subsidiary companies and an equipment hire scheme. BPMB
has placed great emphasis on project development together with its clients,
project appraisal, supervision and technical assistance within its staff
limitations. To meet the consequent high cost of such an operation, the
Government has provided BPMB with the necessary resources at highly subsidized
interest rates. In view of the current budget constraints, however, the
Government is no longer able to meet all the funding requirements, and BPMB is
expected from now on to raise part of its resource requirements at market
rates in the capital market. BPMB has consequently reached a period of tran-
sition, where it is becoming more commercially oriented to ensure long-term
financial viability, without abandoning its basic development objective. The
World Bank will not only provide a new source of funding to help reduce BPMB's
reliance on budgetary resources, but will aLso provide institutional support
during this transition phase. During the project preparation phase, BPMB
prepared, and its Board of Directors has approved, a Policy Statement and a
Statement of Operational Strategies (including an Action Program) which are
expected to guide BPMB through this period. The Action Program is designed to
improve ef_iciency and portfolio quality by more intensive staff training and
some organizational changes. In addition, a senior advisor and an engineering
advisor will be recruited for two years each, to help BPMB's management in all
aspects of policy and overall operations, and to help the engineering staff in
appraisal and supervision, respectively. In addition, a shorter-term (six
months) consultant will help improve BPMB's management information system.
Foreign training/feliowship for its staff is also included in the project.
44.       Lending operations have historically accounted for about 80Z-90% of
BPMB's annual commitments. Loan commitments increased at an annual rate of
50% during 1979-81, but levelled off to around M$90 million in 1982 and 1983
because of the investment climate and resource constraints. In addition to
regular loans, BPMB provides guarantees, property development loans, bridging
finance, share financing, leasing and equity financing.



- 14 -
45.       During 1979-83, BPMB's assets grew at an average annual rate of
almost 43Z, to reach M$464.4 million, with the long-term Loan portfolio about
65Z of the total. Total assets were financed by current liabilities (12.0%),
term debts (69.4Z) and equity (18.6Z). To strengthen BPMB's capital base, the
Government, in 1983, converted part of its outstanding loans into capital.
According to its Policy Statement, BPMB's Long-term debt/equity ratio is
limited to a maximum of 5.0:1. The actual ratio, as of December 31, 1983, was
4.9:1. The Government has agreed to provide financial resources to BPMB, as
and when necessary, to enable it nor to exceed the maximum limit (Section 4.03
of the draft Loan Agreement). Due to low cost Government funding, BPMB has
been able, despite high cost operations, to generate modest profits.
46.       As of December 31, 1983. 44.3% of BPMB's 1,135 borrowers were in
arrears, with overdue principal and interest amounting to M$34.4 million
(including MX25.9 million in foreclosed accounts). BPMB's arrears declined
from 13.4% of cotal Loan portfolio in 1982 to 10.3% in 1983; simultaneously,
the portfolio affected by arrears also improved from 27% to 19Z. However, the
number of arrears cases increased from 175 in 1982 to 503 in 1983 or from
18.6% to 44.3% of all borrowers, indicating a growing number of borrowers with
small arrears. Essentially, this is caused by deteriorating business condi-
tions. However, half of the total number of clients in arrears are fur less
than six months, and BPMB expects these clients to clear their dues as soon as
the overall business climate improves. In view of the high number of loans in
arrears, and at the request of the Bank, BPMB's Action Program (para. 43)
includes measures and targets to reduce the arrears gradually over time, in
particular through improved project evaluation, supervision, loan collection
extension services as well as staff utilization and traiing and management
information. To achieve the collection targets it has set, and particularly
to reduce the number of arrears cases, BPMB has already taken action to
screngthen project appraisal, supervision and staff training, and has also
made appropriate organizational changes.
47.       As of December 31, 1983, BPMB's total term resources amounted to
M$417.5 million, of which M$361.2 million had been disbursed for loans, equity
investments and fixed assets. BPMB's funding plan foresees M$429 million and
M$340 willion respectively in government and private borrowings during 1984-
88, in addition to Bank funding under the project. Since BPMB does not yet
have a track record of market borrowings, the Government has agreed to
guarante!, where necessary, BPMB's mediumr and long-term borrowings in the
private capital market (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). During
negotiations, BPMB's resource plan was reviewed and found satisfactory by the
Bank and the Gcvernment, and an understanding reached that the Government
would provide BPMB with the necessary resources during 1984-88.
48.       BPXB's projected operations for 1984-88 are based on the assumption
that commitments will or average grow at the same pace (21%) as during
1979-83. The project is expected to finance 800-900 loans amounting to M$150
million during 1985-87. The growth rate of BPMB's assets is expected to slow
from 43% p.a. in 1979-83 to about 24% p.a. during 1984-88. The asset growth
will largely be financed by term debts (82%) and to a lesser extent ay equity
(13%). Due to its resource diversification plans, debts from non-g..vernment
sources are expected to account for 35% of the total. Net profits a-e likely



- 15 -
to grow by about 131 p.a. in absoLute terms, but as a return on average net
worth would decline from an actual 15.0X in 1983 to 13.9% in 1988, which is
still considered satisfactory in view of BPMB's development objectives.
49.       The Malaysian Induscrial Development Finance Berhad (HIDF) was
established in 1960 to promote the growth of Malaysia's then nascent manufac-
turing sector. MIDF was restructured in 1963 and a capital increase
(including an investment by IFC). an interest-free government loan
(M$37.5 million) and a World Bank loan (US$8.0 million) provided it with
resources for faster growth. MIDF is a conservative institution, financing
small, medium and large Bumiputera and non-Bumiputera projects in the private
sector, and has a reputation for professionalism and competence reflected in
the high quality of its appraisal and supervision and its sound portfolio. As
part of its development role, it set up a Bumiputera Development Division
(BDD) in 1978 to expand its lending to the target group. The present BDD
portfolio is less than 20% of the total, but is expected to increase substan-
tially as a result of the project. The staff in BDD is being increased from 9
to 15 to handle the anticipated enlarged business volume. MIDF wilL also
receive assistance in training its staff and short-term experts to conduct
selected subsector studies as part of the project.
50.       MIDF's operations are guided by a formal Policy Statement.  The
Statement describes the sectors to be financed, eligibility and appraisal
criteria, types of financial assistance, financial prudence limits, etc. Due
to the slack investment climate, MIDF's annual net loan comuitments declined
by about 50% during the last two years to a level of M$75 million in FY84.
About 23% of MIDF's financial assistance has gone to the food industry,
followed by the metal and engineering subsector (19%). During 1980-83, HIDF's
assets grew at 1lZ p.a. to M$513 million (US$228 million) as of December 31,
1983. These were financed by current liabilities (6.2%), term debts (54.5%)
and equity (39.3Z). MIDF's long-term loan portfolio accounted for about 89.4%
of total assets. As of December 31, 1983, MIDF consolidated long-term
debt/equity and total/debt equity ratios stood at 1.4 and 1.6 respectively.
MIDF has always been profitable and pays a modest dividend.
51.       MIDF's portfolio is sound.  As of December 31, 1983, MIDF's arrears
of principal and interest amounted to M$16.4 million, or 3.7% of its outstand-
ing portfolio, and about 20% of its portfolio was affected by arrears. MIDF
has gradually reduced its arrears from 8.3% of total portfolio in FY81 to the
current relativeLy low 3.7%, with only marginal reschedulings (0.6Z of port-
folio) and write-offs. However, dIDF has a relatively large number of arrears
cases due to the business slow down of the past two years. As of December 31,
1983, 34Z of MIDF's 868 borrowers were in arrears. Although more than 50% of
them have arrears of under six months, MIDF is strengthening its collection
procedures and efforts. These and the measures taken since appraisal time
were discussed during negotiations and an understanding reached on MIDF's
plans to improve its arrears. It is anticipated that the arrears situation
will improve as the business recovery takes hold and as a result of the
measures taken by HIDF.
52.       MIDF intends to raise M$559 million of various maturities during
FY85-89, a major part of which will be used to service existing and new



- 16 -
borrowings; net borrowings are estimated at M$97 million. MIDF's inability to
accept deposits has constrained ics abiLity to mobilize resources and there-
fore to expand operations. MIDF expects its future commirments, includinig
this project, to grow by about 18% p.a. during FY85-89 as compared with 11%
p.a. during the preceding four-year period. This project is expected to
absorb M$60 million during a three-year period for some 275 projects. Based
on the projected volume of commitments, MIDF's total assets are projected to
increase at 6% p.a. from currencly MS520 million to MS690 million by March 31,
1989. The return on assets and net worth is estimated to decline from 4.6%
and 12.4% during FY8O-84 to 2.4Z and 6.3%, respectively, during FY85-89
principally because no large profits are expected from sale of investments.
This activity has been transferred to one of MIDF's subsidiaries. The
relatively modest return on net worth is also a reflection of MIDF's unusually
low gearing (the total debt/equity ratio does not exceed 1.8:1 during the
entire projection period). HIDF's past liquidity situation was tight as
reflected by below unitv current and debt service cover ratios as of
December 31, 1983. MIDE's liquidity position was discussed during nego-
tiations. Since appraisal, MIDF has rolled over loans falling due in 1985
thus significantly improving the liquidity ratios. In addition, MIDF
explained that it had ampLe unused commercial bank credit facilities and had
been assured by the commercial banks that the medium term loans would be
rolled over again if and when it becomes necessary to do so.
The Project Cost
53.       Project Cost.  TotaL project cost is estimated to amount to US$104.1
million equivalent, including US$O.l million capitalizad front-end fee, of
which the foreign exchange cost wilL account for about 25% or US$25.7 mil-
lion. The credit component cost of the project represents the projected
volume of subloans to be made by BPMB and HIDF during 1985-87, whose foreign
exchange requirements will be relatively smalL (about 20%) in view of their
size and nature. As for the TA component, project funds would be spent for
building construction, laboratory and workshop equipment, vehicles for
trainers and trainees, advisors (mostly expatriate) and overseas training and
fellowships. The TA component cost, estimated on the basis of the actual
requirements of the participating agencies, contains a foreign exchange
element of 66%. Physical contingencies of 10% for buildings and equipment
have been included as well as price contingencies, on buildings, equipment,
and training, based on the expected inflation rate of 5% for domestic currency
costs, and 8% (1985) and 9% (1986) for foreign currency costs. The costs for
advisors are estimated on the basis of the Bank's experience in similar
projects and do noc include contingency allowances. The equipment cost
includes applicable duties and taxes which are estimated to be insignifi-
cant. in view of the Government's tight fiscal position, resulting in the
cancellation of most new projects requiring budgetary support, and given the
nature of the beneficiaries and high priority accorded to this project, the
Government has requested, and the Bank has agreed, co finance 50% of the total
project cost.
54.       Blending of Funds and Relending Terms.  The Bank loan of
US$52.1 million will be made to Malaysia on the standard country terms of 15
years with a 3 years' grace period; about USS46.6 miLlion equivalent would be



- 17 -
onlent to BPMB and MIDF. Their subloans will be for considerably shorter
maturities (of around 5 years on average), creating second generation
revolving funds which would be left with BPMB and MIDF to be used by them for
making new SSE loans. Except for BPMB and MIDF, the participating agencies
are parts of various government ministries, and the project funds would be
made available to them through the normal budgetary system and would be cost
free with no repayment to Government. The Government will provide budgetary
allocations for the remaining 50% of the TA costs. Funds under the credit
component (M$33.3 million for BPMB and MS13.3 miLlion for MIDF) will be made
available to BPMB and NIDF at the fixed rate of 7.3%. the actual average cost
of recent Government borrowings. The funds for TA will be provided by the
Government to BPMB and MIDF as interest free loans. The Government will bear
the risk of the Bank's variable rate and the foreign exchange risk on the
total loan amount.
55.       The Bank funds for BPMB will be blended with subsidized funds
provided by the Government. The Bank funds for MIDF will be blended 50:50
with MIDF's other resources, giving it an estimated average cost of 9%.
BPMB's onlending rates would range from a minimum of 9% for loans of up to
LM$100,000, to more than 1 for loans above M$500,000. MIDF's interest rate
on its SSE loans will be at least 2% above its cost of blended funds, i.e. at
least 11%.  The terms and conditions of onlending the Bank funds to BPMB and
MIDF, and those to final beneficiaries, would be incorporated in two separate
subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank, the signing of which
would be a condition of effectizeness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement). MIDF's "spread" on the project subloans will be
lower than that of BPMB because it is likely to lend on average to more up-
scale borrowers, with resultant lower costs and risks. Overall, both BPMB and
MIDF have "spreads" of about 5% on their total operations. The rates to the
final beneficiaries will be substantially positive in real terms, given the
estimated inflation for coming years. An agreement has been reached with the
Government, BPMB and MIDF that interest rates will be reviewed on an annual
basis in the light of cost of funds for BPMB and *IDF, their profitability and
interest and inflation rates in Malaysia (Section 3.02Cc) of the draft Loan
Agreement and Sections 2.05 and 2.07 of the draft Project Agreements with MIDF
and BPMB respectively).
56.       Free Limit and Maximum Subloan Size.  The "free limit" will be
M$400,000 (about US$178,000). Given the estimated average size of US$75,000
and US$89,000 for BPMB and MIDF respectively, it is expected that the Bank's
prior approval will be required for about 15% of all subprojects accounting
for about 45% of the total loan amount. The maximum size of a subloan would
be limited to M$750,000 (about US$333,000).
Procurement
57.       International competitive bidding is not appropriate for the credit
component, which will cover smaLl private sector subprojects. BPMB and MIDF
will, however, ensure that procurement is done on a competitive basis. Their
procurement policies and procedures were reviewed during appraisal and found
to provide adequate competition. Borrowers are required to obtain at least
three price quotations from equipment suppliers and civil work firms, and



- 18 -
contract awards are carefully monitored by both BPMB and MIDF. For equipment
(computers) to be purchased by BPMB for its own use, it will be required to
obtain at least three competitive quotations before the contract is
finalized. Responsibility for procurement under the TA component will rest
with each participating agency. Since these are all part of various
ministries, they wiLl be subject to standard procurement regulations and
practices prescribed by the Government and administered by the Budget Division
in the Treasury. International competitive bidding is not appropriate given
the very small average contract size. Civil works contracts for amounts
exceeding M$50,000 are awarded on the basis of public tenders; for civil works
of less than M$50,000, at least five quotations are required. Equipment
(including vehicles) are procured through a central agency on the basis of
public enders. The recruitment of consultants will be done in accordance
with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Ters
of reference have already been agreed (except for short-term consultants
requested by MIDF) and the appointment of individual consultants would be
subject to prior approval by the Bank. All consultants would be hired by June
30, 1985, except the MIS specialist for BPMB who would be hired by
December 31, 1985 (Section 2.04 of draft BPMB Project Agreement) and the
short-term subsector specialists by MIDF to be hired one at a time for whom
the last date would be December 31, 1986 (Section 2.04 of the draft MIDF
Project Agreement).
58.       Disbursements.  For the credit component, the Bank would disburse
5OZ of the total amount disbursed by BPMB and MIDF for project subloans.
Disbursement would be made against full documentation for BPIIB's and MIDF's
subloans above the free limit of US$175,000. For subloans below the free
limit, Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) wilL be used. BPMB and MIDF would
make initial disbursements for below the free limit subloans on the basis of
their nornml appraisal procedures and submit SOEs to the Bank. Full
supporting documentation would be retained by the two institutions and made
available for Bank inspection during supervision missions. Revolving Funds in
the amounts of US$2.6 million and US$1.2 million for BPMB and MIDF respec-
tively will be established in the form of Special Accounts with their banks
from which they would obtain reimbursement for all subloans. The SOEs, as
weil as the Special Accounts, will be subject to audit by auditors acceptable
to the Bank. BPMB and MIDF will furnish the Bank from time to time with the
usual information on all below the free limit subloans approved under the SOE
procedure. Establishment of the Special Accounts by BPMB and MIDF would be
conditions of disbursement of their respective components-of the proposed loan
(paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). For the TA
component, the Bank would disburse 50Z of the cost incurred by the agencies
for training, recruitment of experts, equipment and civil works on the basis
of SOEs and the Treasury will serve as disbursement agent for aLl the
participating agencies. Regular government audit procedures would apply and
the underlying documents would be retained by the Treasury for examination by
the Bank staff. The loan would be committed in three years and disbursed in
five-and-a-half years. Estimates of the Bank loan disbursemnts follow the
standard Industrial Development Finance disbursement schedule, modified to
incorporate the TA component.



- 19 -
59.       Accounts and Audits.  BPMB's and MIDF's accounts are audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The present auditors are satis-
factory. Audited accounts will be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of each bank's fiscal year (Sections 3.02 of the draft
BPMB and MIDF Project Agreements). The Government agencies participating in
the TA component of the project will be subject to standard Government audit,
and audited project accounts will be submitted no later than six months after
the end of the Government's fiscaL year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
60.       Benefits.  The project is expected to increase significantly
institutional credit to SSEs in the target group and combine it with technical
assistance services where needed. This integrated approach is expected to
ensure a higher success rate of newly created enterprises than in the past,
where technical assistance has often been the bottleneck. A total of M$210
million will be lent over three years to 1,100-1,200 small borrowers. It is
expected that the BPMB component will create at least 10,000 jobs at an
estimated cost per job of M$ 15,000-20,000 and the MIDF component 2,100 jobs
at an estimated cost per job of M$26,000. The project is also expected to
increase the quantity and quality of technical assistance to SSEs through
strengthening of the participating agencies and more efficient coordination
among them and between the TA and credit programs. In addition, BPMB will be
significantly strengthened. Finally, for the first time, TA programs will be
systematically monitored and their impact evaluated. Future program modifica-
tions and institutional reforms could, therefore, be based on systematic
studies as opposed to the past ad hoc measures.
61.       Risks.  Given the uncertainties in the economic environment, the
Loan could take longer to disburse than presently estimated. This risk will
be minimized, however, by the considerable strengthening of the participating
credit and technical assistance agencies which is expected to contribute to
more intensive and efficient promotion. The other project risk is that if
overall coordination among the many TA and credit agencies is not effective,
the impact of the project could be diluted. Much would depend on the weight
the CCDSE and SED would carry in the future. Provision has been made in the
project for strengthening coordination and for periodic consultation between
the Government and the Bank on this subject. A risk particuLar to BPMB is
that it could have difficulties raising the resources it wouLd need to achieve
the projected volume of its regular operations. However, the Government has
agreed to provide BPMB with adequate resources and to support its private
borrowings which should assist it in diversifying its resource base.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Malaysia, the draft
Project Agreements between the Bank and BPMB and the Bank and MIDF, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
63.       Features of special interest in the Loan Agreement are described in
Annex III.  Signing of subsidiary Loan agreements between the Government of
Malaysia and BPMB, and MIDF will be an additional condition for loan
effectiveness.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
September 26, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                   Page I of 5
IMLAYSIA              -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAAYSIA                             REFEREC -SWPS (ECIGIIMD AVERAGES) /I
MSt                     CHoST RECET ESTIMATE) lb
19CIb       m     RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME          M DLE Im
19601T7QLb  IsTiHATE!  ASI A  PACIrIC        LIT. AMItCa 4 CAR
AE (R0OUm Q. S It )
TOTAL                               329.6      329.8    329.8
AGRlCULTURAL                        34.8        39.8     43.6
WM MR CAITA (US4)                     240.0       460.0   1860.0            1091.2                   210R.6
ItRC WSOMF!OU PER CAPITA
(KLOM  OF OIL EQUIVALEN)          616.0       455.0    689.0             567.3                    n5.5
POPUIATION A VITAL UTATISTICS
POPULATION.NID-YEAR (THOUSADS)    1Z05.0    10663.0  1452S.0
a                        UBASM POPUILATION (C OF TOTAL)      25.2        27.0     30.2              36.7                     66.5
POPULATION PROJECTlONS
POPULATION IN YEA% 2o0 (MILL)                          20.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MLL)                            33.0
POPULATION l2TR                                         1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 0I.                       24.9        32.9     43.1             261.9                     35.7
PER SQ. Xll. ARI. LAND          235.5       273.2    325.5            1735.1                     92.4
POPUIATION ACE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-16 YS                           45.1       45.4     39.6              39.0                     39.9
15-64 YRS                         51.2        5l.5     56.8              57.6                     56.0
65 AiND AbOVE                      3.6         3.1      3.5               3.3                      4.1
POPULATIOX GROWTH RATE CE)
TOTAL                              2.7         2.8      2.4               2.3                      2.4
URRAN                             .49          3.5      3.4               4.3                      3.6
CRUDE BInRH RtATE (PER THOUS)       6463        35.7     29.1              30.1                     31.3
CRUDE DEATH SATE (PER THOUS)        14.9        9.2       6.4               9.5                      8.1
GROSS REPROCUCTlON RATE              3.4         2.6      1.7               2.0                      2.0
FMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANMUAL (TROUS)           ..        56.0     81.1
USERS (: OF HARRIED uCI)            ..        33.0 /c    *-              52.7                     60.3
FMI AHD 11RISXTION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       65.0        99.0    150.0             123.0                    114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)      107.0      114.0    121.0             114.4                    110.6
PROTEINS (GANS PER DAY)           49.0        52.0     60.0              57.0                     67.3
OF WHlCH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0       18.0     23.0 Id           14.1                     34.1
CHIL  (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          7.5         3.4      1.7               7.2                      5.7
HEALTH
LlFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       53.9        61.2     E6.7              60.4                     64.7
INFANT MORT. RATE CPER THOUS)       72.4       45.6      29.3              66.3                     E0.6
ACCESS TO SAFE UATER (CZOP)
TOT'AL                               ..       29.0     62.0 /a           37.0                     65.4
URAN                                ,,       100.0     93.0 7W           54.6                     7B.1
RURAL                               ..         1.0     49. 77            26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        59.0     60.0 /f           41.3                     52.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0    100.0 If           47.4                     67.0
RURAL                               -.        43.0     43.077            33.3                     24.5
POPULATION PER PHTSICtAN          7060.0      4310.0   7910.0 Id         7749.4                   1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           1800.0      1120.0    940.0 Td         2460.4                    815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             270.0      290.0    300.0 /t         1044.2                    367.2
URBAN                             110.0      140.0       ..             651.2                    411.5
RURAL                            5710.0     1760.0       ..            2594.6                   2636.3
ADEIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL E            ..        18.4     17.2 It           27.0                     27.3
AVERArE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                .         5.6 In
URBAN                               ..         5.97j
RURAL                               ..         5.57      .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL                                . .6
URBAN                               ..         2.3
RURAL                                ..        Z.8 7-
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL-                                        43.4/'
URBAS                               ,,        84.7 I                      
RURAL                                ..       30. 17     ......



- 22 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INIA291A.- SOCXL  OXAZ.  Z         VZDSA EE
341.AUA                              W       m vs (W2uaa  £VE5aGS I.
_=                  m-mt   I r Eerm  lb
1 C LE J'
aswrz                     lom          xa- YCESE.n-
19E-b    I970I- .SuKaTdkb        AZL £ FAICX            Liz. A2XcA & CA3
Tom ~                       56.0       83.0      92.0            zQ._                    105.4
HIN.E                 10t.0       9I-0      96.0            105.9                   I06.3
FEW"                    M3        86.0      91.0             98.2                   10'.5
SEtlo- m                         1290       34.0      S_0               0                       3_2
250       60.0     56.0             48.7                    62.3
imazz                  13.0       26.0      S3O             43.1                    465
U     KL e_ or SEAU                            2.9      1.7              17.5                    33.6
Pm                               26.0       31-0      26.0             31.8                    301
mm                               250        26.0      23.0             23.5                    16_B
AI   XEU= VC CO          G         58 Jl      5.53    60a0               729                     79.5
-  A      3s      3   OFM          11.8       21_9     428 /I            10.1                   46.0
Z            _         w           36_9       39.6    142               L13.6                   2Z5.6
Iw _ W    n                         3.2        2 M0    724               50.1 
-           C3411 C
M       a   N0rLEAO              6.         72.1    132.6 lk           53.9                    63.5
a   *in-                           2o.0        9.4      2.6 7a            3A                     2.8
IOTAL UR   CO        ) M200.0    3688.0   518-.0
IDWAE  tC1)                      227_Z      31.4     31.5              33-5                    23_Z
iMX        (1r>                  63.0       56.0      5.0              522                     3L5
1       (Em )                    1OQ Z >    14.0     1.0               1719                    23.9
y        lmcun    mazz (RBM
TOM.                             36-1       33.8      35.6             38.7                    32.2
8415                             48.8       45..?7    48.5             509                     .9_3
wazZ                             19         215      2Z_5             26_6         1S52
3DCOM     _:JEIc Ram                1-4        t-       1_2               1_I                    Is4
Sr SZr or 3NWMi0 =o . 2.
m I92m  U
BEGIN  St OF soC3S               3L.0       21.0       ..              2.2
3 Wr 2  or W  EK26               61         56.6           _      _    460
S2W er iUS                        3_2        3_3       _.               6A4
LOW= 4er OF*_S5                   9.        10.6I"                     15._
o       Z      G
EDM Im mr 
LUEL OC    SS cWZa
ORB"                                       12.6    314.4              1816                    28-2
IAL                                _.      1I6    239.2               152.0                   184.0
eS72KARE          me     I 
0U COSS PM CA PIT)
tl                                 ..         __        ..            1779                    5228
39341.                             ..         ..        _             16646                   372m4
P0Umf Mm LTAL C:)
1UlE                               ..      ZI3       12-6             23-4                     -.
L                                  -.R 58.7          37-7             37.7
M_?r AUAXL-
r AMLLCAMZ
VOTES
In   Tg   p a se   EW  ac f            a     db £aikw  re   __    arfttmmtlc _M. CoveraG of coentrge. moos tbe
S_dic Ui- dopas   - avoilaMU7 cc data ass    t ifoo.-
lb   oleam odtb_xe nt".  ora fw 19W  refer to aV year betVen 1959 and 1961; -to for 1970- betwen 1969 and
1n971; aa daes for -b.t UOnas Fattuate I   .1960 .d I192.
Ic   94; Id 1977; /a IA; .;f vn75; La ?nnalar NaldWsds: lb 1962; /I 1978; L  1966; lb L979.
JCE 1984



-23-                                                     A1NI
W..  -                                                 PgTof 5
CCI 411        C. CL  -  CC  C ._ _        WlflP 1      C. -  ..fft.C.... CL _ Ct.C.. t CCI  .110 .t CC CC            ,     __v CL - fCU.
-   C C. ZCLC ftC.CL CLC.CC  -               CL.~~o CEC..        C  - CLt.Um af.    .C.-                    1 .     
CC._          C   - .  C.CC  IC. _              -       -    -    " -         I      ai.
U. .C.       - 11) C. -           CCC   .CLC.-               -M. Iay.-f CC C   *Lbtw  A~  6 Ia                    C.      7 a     C
CI.    __ CI    .  0   Ia41_               _        _13 ftC. CC _    _L __. _11 _t _C. __C-                     _       -C
.611.1CC). _tC. .Cr.C.I. CCCL C.  .4| - eCLIa '.~  -6. .  -  zft. CL CCCL.1 -  C.  L-_  C _..6C.I. _    C. -                             ft*
-. 1CC    ..i                                                    CCL..C  -        .D..  12.ft.. tftCL f"ML1 --1C
- _    _-   aft L  .. C-_-6Zht Csr                       U .r    _
n;. -   91                                                                  l.s..at   - -Ia c-ab..- i.-at                   ,-- J-V L
_ C.                    - < _  CL 11.Cf an-  p.-   Ia                                    Ia.      C.             w      I      L
9"9_.2-  zo_  ~ --                             _eu _ B_t -_ _-"O                                          _0.mt       V _em
_    _n_CCI-. -B L  IMee  C-ftftolCtC.. %.   ._ S CL
IC.-- --W           M&.. a...                      oCCC                               . -L-   I C  -    L3 "-C.. 2L11.  0     I.1  C)
r o,_  _ Wm                                                                       -  D             t _ _ _ t-_ t
o ~9            C   61 _. _  s,.      IEIO.  _)            IcC _. _    _   _                           _.n  _
10.90        C.-                                                       ft -CC       1fCC. CC-2ftC.   CCII -
tmmk. -Wm,. ~~ MU-  .....I                                                         C..   C.914'C
d _S.D           - al  - _    _5                           a                            ..  -            t_ _. _          _ _   t -        _SA
_n_                                                                     CL1. c1 _  _         1D   - =-1 - -    -I
_9  CC?6    r...C1.1-   ftC.e ft C.C MS.                     .         _         . CC.te     ,     C _ _C C        _2      C.u         ...
_.C ._  -  -   C                     ,C
.*afa.C.C.t-    C                                   IC                   I                 M-1                               -aC.-    ~ I
ZI.          l   .CCz    6911C                       ~.|. _                -   *- 91.t6D1dD. f         htU) - DC CC
C. C     CCI C.  Cft    2wt,    Z.-& *-                     mm --.    I   D-)WLKUC.1WLKF ftaw - UU  C     h1-  WC"
~~..CL.w CLift. ft ICCIZS, C.C.41 ft                            MMCC CL                   ff .CL W6-CLIF
-   C C.  DCL Iaft~~~ ch.  -Pt           ft      CC            CC
Z-9                            tw                                                                       P- 
91- ft CC  w  -  aC.tIa   ftIII~                       I.I6. CCI-".    C.. -   -l        -  tC.  -C - -CL- C    - lCI
db-~~~~~~~~w =r  z===--t-
-     f      9 t1.1  11    -Mt-.f.IICC.                                  CC        =C    C..IC-  .                C
ICC CC  CCZI  .I    LIg d-   t1k.   C                                  WCW          C    114UICI  C.".C66.                      1
--ZC)   ft -  h- C-6    . C   C-  t    -                                  C.-w .).C        mw1CC. lI     SS 3..q CLCS  1
-  CC ftC. C    -.C.  l f    )-& V-). .f .CL ga.-CC                             C91CC C.S C                        C11I
- E -  ft         ,-l- U. ftftCC.   -   -          --                                  -  CC    CC. C..111.    -.M%-
C.ftC- "al. IIJ6    "LaC..C--CCLt.f C   C.C    - CC 911.t CL- C                                                 -   .b-  CC.I
59. C  C   .._C_-11. C _.lIt   _    _S                _n-.1                       1   C11t 'C -. ?    t   _C  P12   CC_  _
-e 1_. ft _            C. CC?g           ft    .C.                   MII         _. C.tt   _   CC  _C             CC
a _        _ -w_ Av.                                                           . -e                         -           . ._
_DC .3 O          Lt. __     C. .e C o       . r.  i...                   ftc    in.I*  ICC    _   r u                    C
- 3. _C                                                                           S.t  _  e- w               . - O              , 
_I    _                                    .I  (a I*                                          t..l o C 1. tC  C-               t C.
CL 561191 fE-     .1 .    C.lt C  liI ....3  rI11C  13_ .______                        _     _     q  _ w       _
_ -   1. _ L Ifl   .f 1              -   ta                                            .       ..   _.S        -& I.0.  . -a    s
- -  C   U._ t90. -. U._ C.                             _-   I C CL _C _CC  _a_ .                                    CLCC. C          t C.
-      -.        1i1t.1ftt             t_-C.                                 ft  _6   _   1CC Edtt _6_ 1.9    -| _ to  -            _.
.                                                                                   -.    fLt   s C tC S  .
W 9     CCr                 -      t         _       -C.          _C                                  t                      ch. -    M
CC.C  ftW, tIl, _.C       C          CM    CLC d*.1  CD C                                               1C  - _W _I     _C    .     _-
_-62 PL6- _- D--  '~                                                     _t                                                             e s.
CC  IC. t_).   t_J. _                            .a  *_If _S _C                                   _ - C  CLI             _ __1-I
mt.   &rb I.Ct1.1. ft"Z   C.   .d&. M                  .ta                  CC    11..3.    (11 -C  Ita) as-               C  Ia.oe 
lC.lUIv _..£ ...Ift fC...n  Ia          91 ft lift. *910. _L                C.11IC... -    CLt     C lIft  %            CC _    -t
_L                                                                          e.MlC.C. CC  MC p ft I               t t   _   _1 0  _t _  4 __
Int. _ _ __ -         _ _ _ _CI _     I _-_   le -                           .. t T_t _     m    a_ * _          -I 
C    C      t 9 C -           C. C    ftC. I , gL_t                        Ia  _C)  _C . -_ _CI  _.  _ C   -  -_ CCC
IC.?. 1i6.   91.1.C..C..1 C   .tII    ) - 911  C  d        CCI CL1*C6m                                       W%-8-
-stw _.t  _  _ ( _  S  _fflU-C.  _  - __C g C  -wE I- -                                  -            v                     f      __  [W.
_ C _ a      . -t_    __t    -   r. CC. CL CC.                          C.C. - aftMI C. 1.1-           ML%,- _    _..  . CL.. D-i91 
*4_  p-             v-1. -C C_ _.  . t_  S      -R           C_           C. 
C. _ _    _t_ _ C._0                                                          IaM6 _   Ut L                 _ - t_r. .t
-1161. IIC...7I.I) _t- tC C ~   _                                   C_I. _2C_ _ _ . -             o.%  Ir r.9 a.
CCI  II    ~1orn  b         I. lCL . C           C  - _L                9         1--t, _t  _C 1.        t_ f - '_   k..   CI  .4 W  _  M
ICL    ft - LIa K  ft.f.   ..  MI.  Ill 64.              1.61- .... CmvP""   cgb WCC II.I.~ 90  93C   9
tot"  tuf .v, _       s  _E   t        ,. _  
~I  91CC CCC  C           .C.1  L  CC.ItfZ  =                         IC. ...... - CC   C-  CC.  .   ..ft .CCI, 91. SL
_FA Mte 0-0                                                                              {_X _w  wot .up&, W t_> 9. dfPP --9-             -
It. w             d.&   I         A . .  e .     C    f t                *S OL t r1..                        C .     IL I  r.
ICC    C.CI    MCC  gI.. I)~   961). 913 C. -     .              CL Too= cmrs
- ..    II   ..t.C.. 6..... .  C       --'  CCC ftZs-..am                             - CC   -W-11..   CL 1..1  I.  ICC-f.
W --LC-           C.C.  C-     -_tI1. _         r 66   ch.         _        --" _ .    C       ,r. CL _D. w           C_        .___r
~ W-"  .              WC-C . WM -       Zmw1  CC.C                            C.31.CL56C.-.-fC. 3%MIIMf.
C                              C.~. C    ~   ft ..t.  C.        L. ft,9C..1  ..- .C.*                     CC-a     C                W C.-9 L99  C   C. 
.r     _ _   C.        . C_    _e _f t_s _r. , t.. _                                   1_            _ _       _.     "a 
_ ~I9 1515CC ft C. _C _ 31.ftl.31..3 ..91 _2_  _t                          91CC. _.CL.., C.f-  91   C   CM .L_           11 CL  _        ft r
CLftD?      ~ 4."C    911  CLI        . 1W     . -   t1* ..CC                 .   If   L      ft        En_C  C   19-4'). 9dft     .   .
_DM  CCL _91) 191 _L _. _t_Cr _ C .   |-                               CC SUIDI t  0_ _ WY
-   t  _LI   _t. .1 ...c_ft          t     _ -~         _,I~I  1St  ,6            _    _   _ _ ft      _  _1.0 II tIC C 12t-
1..1 __       1 t . CCCC_  ft  DC    'L tCll CC                                   t
t~~~~~~ C . _ft tC ID   _CI _- _I _  *_ t.                                                           6613 _CI _  -tC__,_a  __Cs 
C  CC 3.11.1. - -       0  1C. _110. r_t. _y _C _t _10                      CCII f_  t _C.hII.CL CC_leIb91   .          J-
ftr C           . _... 1-_  *q         -* a. -                                                    .     _.Y _  r_  _CA_
b-r                                     weirb rrJ   _  fw_ __t _  __ .r   ~ _w %-Aft  C    C   C_  II. r_    C 1 1_1w   r _ _D.*
_~~~~~d-P                                      Pr       ,z    srt  -   r_rt_r_r 
91411                          r_C. 1ClIt 91. CC_ *_I.__ f____X J_ t...?  _a I...  r r >. - _ _C._t
_ a,. ltI   - 91.19 o..  - K_ r_   C . C MC.                                       II  V.1  C_ **C. 11C  C.r r_ t_l) SM              _ _
a_. *ift1. 19        13 .                                                       . -.d-
t159   913 C..t.r ICC.  C_ .stft         - _..  tC  CL_ _ _ _
_CC _10 -Sd           _I    Cf 116 6C16   P.6t1C fs       -e                                                        _     _ _
__ __ _63 _C    61 r._,t  __C CE.                 CC    _t_
IC.. %C.  _L ft        _ I9 t ftC   _t_16 ICCI.   ta    _
_C._  __CC-         611        _a -ft  _U _C C. C
_. 91t r1If Ce ._ _C9, C. r_Ct  _C
r_ _l_d           _ 5 C _ .         C. - Ce _ ,l _C   C._
__1           ___r__C___r.er_
.C __9



- s E -- _~~~~~~~~~~~ ,.4 r_ of 5
CM-I flXA - mULAYSZAL
DSa~~~~~S
50WC w1A    1    *~ 3:                                      hz           BAl 0
rSS :     D                 1961-70       197-76        1977      L9"7     197      ISM       £61       933     3
Co2 s =  : Z  t ices              V 6            0 .           6.4           7.8         7.5      5.9       9.2   * .a         7.3      5.4      3.}
Crum Dostic  Sc.osm                9.17         33_3          6.7           96         22-4       LI     13.5      13J       21.J     13.9      0.5
Ccose sziamau 5o                  6.3            223                        ',                                *           *   . .
Expert- a! acod   Sa              S5,32W         573           6.0           3.0         1._      7.6      16.9      3.3      11.0      9.2     12.C
Sp's of C ods    Fs              17.113         623            2.9           7.3        15.      12.9      23.3     15.1       .6 *     1.1      9.9
0C2E. LANK Pm3 AA
PUOCCr1vI2 M. 1933 la
Ve                                          0 r 
VW -Ift S         S      exe5   -_
Agriultre                        3.030     2.4           1.9  36.5              159        61.3
--destw                         4,109    30.4            1.3  25.0              3.261     121.5 
Sorwiced                        6.30      .1.            2.0  36.5              3.195     12.
-ooIL     ^                13.52n   100.0           5.2  £000              *,602     too'°
COwRV.- F;rACE
Esacrul GeOwnem
1971-75    1976.46  of 1    199        1993
CGr.rem 35celp"                     la_M3         20.6        24.L     22    27.3    27.2
Coot c  s'ft t,s,gSL                             56.9        30.5     2.      26.0    23_6
Cfurent sa75Ios                      2.431         0.8         1.2      3.3     1.3      3.6
:llrrt D ;eslopues rapsaficor.       5;216         5.3         7.3     15.3    11.6      7.7
met Le.sm                            3,723         3.0         3.4      4.1     6.7      5_S
Foreign sarru4,t (met)                 2_       ;              1.3      5.2     7.8      6.4
4M,     =V - A3 CES
1973     197k     1975      1976     1777      1973      979     190      1961     196      1993
(31111E.. 2s ematetsi9 CAg period)
!Isins.   'nlss1-2bms7  7.552    8.c714   Ifn00    12.771    &* 81    17. 67   21,61S   27.652   32.331 37,"         39.,26
n-1r Erodit to  bLic33
socrr (nsot)                   566      959    1.313       Fz2    1*.13    1.017    -712        519    2D29    3., 2    3,359
Book Crdt2: :. Prtiace
Ssctar                       4.583    5275    6.=77    7.471 n     ."7    11.3      I&,9     20.936   2571C   2!9.16   35-W7
CPercmts.Ss ar Wedax Mmers)
2he and Ooosllbae
&Z Zs ale G                 40.3      38.1     1..      4S.5      16.0     46.1     *7.9      53.3     S7.7      61_S     59.2
Ct960 - 100                  63.2 '    498       32.0     65.7     37.9      92.0     96.5    100-.    109.      134.1    120.3
Anm- Pecetg
Ches   in Co_nsuer
Price lai.                    20.o-    17.L       4.5      2.6     6L7        6.9      3.6      6.7       9.7     5SJ        3_$
Bo_k Credit to Public
sector (mce)                  310      69.       36.9    -37.4     47.8    -16.2         '              37.5     73.7    -1-9
!o1k Credt: zo Prirte Sector    S2.2     15.1     1S.1      22.9     2D.1     32.0      265      39J       22.6     16.3     19.0
./   Sn 1970 prices.
ot applicable
Note: Al Cvenras :a dGarm ln this tsble             t tbe    rs   ehoe rate prel   d               ped      ed
September 199L



A:C~ 1
- 25 -                                       Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYERS  AND CAPrrAL FLO8S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS            1981      1982       1983                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1983)
-SSCUSS SimIlliox)-                                        US million       1
Expoits f.o.b.                11,723    11,952    13.863         Rubber                       1,579       11.4
Imports f.o_b.                11,736    12,464    13.160         Timber                       1,731        12.5
Nonfactor Services (cet)      -1.544    -1.616    -3.027         Petroleum                    3.393       24.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -1.5S7    -2.218    -1.324         Tin                            741         5.3
Factor Services (net)           -760      -958    -1,548         Pain Oil                     1,283        9.3
let Transfers                    -33       -33        -22        All Other Coods              5,136       37.0
Bal    on Current Acco
(deficit = -)               -2,350    -3.119    -2.894               Total                 13. 8 63    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      1.232     1.256      1.206
Net MLT Borrowing la           1,8'6     2.597      2.133        E3TENAL OMEl, DECEMHER  31. 1983
Disbursements                  1.983     2,838      2,391
Amortization                     137       241        258                                              USS Mln
Subtotal                    3.058     3,853      3,339        Public Debt, tncl. Cuaranteed          10,667
Nonguaranteed Private Debt              3,566
Other Items n.e.i.              -930      -931      -396         Total Outstanding £ Disbursed          14,231
Increase in Reserves  -)         2U2       197         45
International Reserves
(end year)                 4,298     4,021     4.10Z        DEWr SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983 lb
I
Fuel and Related -Materials                                      Public Debt, incl_ Guaranteed             5.8
Inports                            *         *          *        Songuaranteed Private Debt                3.2
Exports                            *         *         *         Total Outtasnding & Disbursed             9.0
Of which:  Crude Petrolemiz  3,008     3,288     3.393
IsxDiImA LENDUG (MIARCH 31, 1984)
CUSS million)
RATE OF EXCANGE                                                                                             RD
Average rate during period:                                      Outstanding & Disbursed                  725.5
Undisbursed                             536.8
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         1,260.3
YS per USS            SS per M5
1973                    2.6                  0.41
1974                    Z.41                 0.61
1975                    2.40                 0.42
1976                    2.54                 0.39
1977                    2.66                 0.41
(             1978                    2.32                  0.63
1979                    2.19                 0.46
198C                    2.18                 0.46
1981                    2.30                 0.43
r             1982                    2.34                  0.43
1983                    2.32                 0.43
* not available.
/a Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
___ Interest and amortization payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports of goods and services.
September 1984



PNN= II
- 26 -                              Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
The Status of Bank Group Operations in Nalaysia /b
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31. 1984) /a
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                 (less cancellations)
no.   Year        Borrower               Purpose                     Bank     Undisbursed
Thirt-y-four loans fully disbursed                                     693.03
1115    1975   Malaysia             Agri. Research & Extension          20.50       1.56
1213    1976   Malaysia             Kuala Lumpur Sewerage               20.50       2.03
1329    1976   Malaysia             Education (IV)                      35.00       6.00
1376    1977   Malaysia             Highway (III)                       35.00       8.90
1443    1977   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (VIII)                        22.00       3.09
1444    1977   Malaysia             xat'l Small-scale Irrigation        39.00       9.81
1493    1978   Malaysia             National Extension                  19.00      11.56
1590    1978   Nalaysia             FELDA VI Land Settlement            28.00      16.00
1608    1978   Malaysia             Population II                       17.00      12.47
1618    1978   Malaysia             Coconut Smallholders Dev.           19.50       5.16
1632    1978   Malaysia             Krian-Sungei HMaik Agri. Dev.       26.50       3.14
1657    1979   Malaysia             Education CV)                       38.00       8.72
1717    1979   Malaysia             Muda rI Irrigation                  31.00      16.59
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (IX)                          50.00      13.10
1899    1980   Malaysia             Kelantan Land Scheme
Rehabilitation                   25.00       21.57
1957    1981   Malaysia             Rompin-Endau Area Dev.              40.00      34.74
1960    1981   Malaysia             Trans-Perak Area Dev.               50.00      44.91
2013    1981   Malaysia             FELCRA I                            37.00      30.54
2145    1982   Malaysia             Industrial Training (Educ VI)       40.60      38.66
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (I)           86.30      84.65
2147    1982   Malaysia             Malacca Agri. Development           25.40      22.68
2220    1983   Malaysia             Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90       52.92
2291    1983   Malaysia             Sabah-Saravak Road                  86.22      86.00
Total Loan (less cancellation)                               1,541.45
of which has been repaid                                     280.19
Total now out tanding                                        1 261.26
Amount sold                    43.89
of which has been repaid     42.98                             0.91
Total loans now held by Bank                                 1,260.35
Total undisbursed                                                         534.80
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b   The Board of Executive Directors approved the Eleventh Power Loan No. 2438-NA on
June 7, 1974. It was signed on July 9, 1984, and became effective on August 29,
1984.



AIRE II
Page 2 of 2
- 27 -
B. Statement of IFC Investment (as of March 31, 1984)
Amount in
Type of         USS Million
Year             Obligor                      business   Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Development    Financing       -    1.94    1.94
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1966      Tasek Cnment Ltd.                   Cement      1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.               Steel       2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.       Textiles    1.25    0.25    1.50
Total Gross Commitment                          4.98    3.71    8.69
Less: repaymets, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off              4.09    3.71    7.80
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               0.89            0.89
Total Undisbursed



- 28 -                            ANNEX III
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:                  12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                 EPU and SED with Bank
assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:                    July 1981
(d)  First Bank mission to identify the project:        October 1981
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal missions:           January 9, 1984 and
March 31, 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:                August 23, 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                     January 30, 1985
Section HI: Special Bank Implementation Action
The project will need intensive supervision to achieve its full
objectives. The first supervision is scheduled for February 1985.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Disbursement
Establishment of Special Accounts (Revolving Funds) by BPMB and MIDF
(para. 58).
(b)  Other
Ci) Annual review of progress of coordination among TA agencies
(para. 35);
(ii) Annual review of interest rates (para. 55);
(iii)  All advisors under TA component to be hired by June 30, 1985
except that the BPMB MIS specialist to be hired by
December 31, 1985 and the last of the MIDF subsector
specialists to be hired by December 31, 1986 (para. 57);
(iv) Government to provide financial support to BPMB to enable it
to maintain its maximam debt/equity ratio limit (para. 45).



104                                     io1
MALAYSIA
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPF
8
T HA I LAN D                                                                          A     BPMB BRAN
o - O MIDF BRAN
ROADS
.  _-_,-I1--I RAILWAYS
PORTS
STATE SOL
Akw                       Kota Shamom   BIw                                          _      INTERNATI
0        100      200
Koala Tmmna                                             K lUObETERS
-'F
tJ IN                                                       INDONESIA
Grs                 < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~no
_     <                           iSIN~~~~%illGAPORE
I N DO0NE SI A
o10                                        108
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . 



IBRD 18397
112'                                                               I 16
PROJECT
PHILIPPINES
8--
OUNDARIES                                                                                   K  K. b
BRUNEI    .                                                       L              s +      {'
Mmr
/
Ti1,S nID has bown OWad by
The wow Bw*-s staf wcAwv4
for Ve cof nwerwe ot fme
*1'                                    r~~~~~~~~~~eg4rad& &Ws ewckioAW4 Jar VWe
K~~~~.ch.nq                                                                                   flhlemal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r   use atf The Ktdd* Baw*
adVWe &fmnabonal FrAunae
Co-vmanTednwbf
ODar of The Vbwb SW*e VW De
1 NxJ D    O  N    E   S   I  A                                                nwemme' Fk De Cog afab
or any tefItCy or an
A        M X  T}  A                                                    v  torwow,c.aof
112                                                                    1 6                        such  _       _ua,u_es 
JULY 1984






