Report No. PID8894
Project Name                     Peru-Second Rural Roads Project (@)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Rural Roads
Project ID                       PEPE44601
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF PERU
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION &
COMMUNICATIONS (MTC) - PERT-PCR
Av. Garcilaso de la Vega 1351 - Centro Civico
y Comercial de Lima, Lima 1
Address: Av. Garcilaso de la Vega 1351 -
Centro Civico y Comercial de
Lima, Lima 1
Contact Person: Ing. Mario Quiroga Guerinoni
Tel: (511) 330 3360
Fax: (511) 332 6844
Email: director@pcr.gob.pe
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 31, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 22, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 19, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government of Peru is pursuing a comprehensive strategy directed
towards economic growth and poverty alleviation.    As rural poverty levels
are very high, the social integration of Peru --with its emphasis on
improved access for the poor in remote areas to education, health,
property rights, and infrastructure services, remains a major priority.
Continued reduction of rural poverty rates is constrained by the following
rural transport sector issues:Poor rural accessibility resulting from
deficient rural transport infrastructure and services. The rural poor in
the Sierra have very limited mobility beyond their immediate settlements
because of geographic isolation, difficult mountainous terrain and high
costs associated with improving transport infrastructure. While these
adverse conditions are natural barriers for rural development, to a great
extent the lack of rural accessibility stems from the deterioration of
existing transport infrastructure, which results in extremely low travel
speeds and lack of year-round passability (access). The condition of the
rural roads network in the Sierra is negatively affected by the lack of
adequate drainage systems and by poor maintenance practices, which
combines with climatic impacts to result in prolonged road closures and
increased safety hazards. Under these conditions, the level of motorized
transport has remained low --only a few vehicles venture to reach rural
communities-- and the provision of transport services unreliable.
Furthermore, for most rural households income limits vehicle ownership to
only the most affordable types of non motorized vehicles. A large number
of communities rely exclusively on non-motorized transport for travel
outside of their settlements, often through neglected and unsafe paths.



In spite of the progress made in the last five years to improve rural
accessibility, the needs are yet staggering.Four distinct cross-sectoral
dynamics are related to the lack of basic rural accessibility, altogether
contributing to the poor living conditions of rural households:(a)     Poor
access to social and government services, such as health, education,
justice, policing, and public registries (e.g. birth and marriage
certificates). The relevance of transport services can be better
perceived when considering the distance or travel times to access those
basic services. A recent evaluation of a sample of rural households in
the project area showed that the average distance to primary schools was
about 2.0 km, about 6.2 km to secondary schools, and much farther for
technical or tertiary education. Similarly, household dwellers in the
sample had to travel on average about 8.0 km to access basic health care
at the local post, and about 30.2 km if they needed to get to a hospital.
Poor accessibility has to do with the difficulties faced by the people
that travel to the location where the services are provided, but also with
the difficulties faced by service providers to reach the rural communities
where the poorest and most vulnerable live.    In this respect, good
accessibility is vital to retaining good service providers.     This has
been evidenced in the studies carried out to assess the impact of the
first three years of the program, where numerous testimonies report how
the improvement of rural infrastructure and services has increased the
reliability of ambulatory health services, the willingness of
alfabetizadores to reach communities that were previously perceived as too
isolated. An exploratory study on gender issues has shown that the lack
of reliable rural transportation impacts poor women and children the most,
since women cannot afford being away for unpredictable periods of time as
they have to look after their children and household needs.(b) Poor
articulation of rural households with markets . An inefficient transport
system is a significant constraint on agricultural efforts in the rural
areas. The lack of a reliable transportation, reflected in high transport
and transaction costs, hampers the capacity of rural households to
articulate with markets and forces them to continue in a subsistence
agriculture. Proximity to markets influences effective prices of
agriculture inputs and outputs. Purchases of modern inputs and sales of
outputs decline with distance from market, and transport costs influence
farm profits through input use and crop marketing decisions. A recent
study performed by Grade, a Peruvian think-tank NGO, analyzed the impact
of transaction costs in the commercialization of potatoes --the dominant
produce of the Peruvian highlands between 2,500-3,500 m above sea level.
The study estimated for the research area that transaction costs amounted
to about 50 percent of the sale price for producers connected to markets
through rural roads, and about 60 percent for producers connected through
tracks for non-motorized transport. The report concluded that the volume
of sales in the research sample were about 48 percent lower than what they
could be due to these high transaction costs.(c)    A perception of
economic and social isolation. Many communities can only be reached by
non-motorized means of transport, as deep rivers and steep slopes become
natural barriers to building roads. Poor rural accessibility has resulted
in social isolation, one of the major elements of the deprivation trap
that perpetuates rural poverty in Peru.    Poverty and isolation are linked
together because when people are isolated, they are unable to harness the
economic and social opportunities within a wider geographic region.
Consequently, isolated people can neither take advantage of employment
opportunities beyond their settlement --at least without disrupting their
- 2 -



household livelihood through forced seasonal or permanent migration-- nor
expand their income generating activities through interactions with other
centers. Isolation slows down the diffusion of new technologies and the
technical assistance, which often are vital to the conversion of a local
economy of subsistence to more competitive ones that can expand local
economic assets and generate sustained development. This forced local
self-sufficiency hinders local specialization and becomes another barrier
to economic development. (d)    Reduced opportunities to develop
income-earning activities. The concurrence of the factors noted above has
severely constrained the capacity of the rural poor to earn cash and
develop income-generating activities. Historically, people living in
rural areas in the highlands have had little opportunity to earn cash
incomes and fully enter the market economy of the region and nation.
According to the base line survey performed in 2000, less than 20 percent
of households' income comes from wage-earning activities.     This
percentage sharply contrasts with the 45 to 50 percent observed in similar
villages once transport access has been improved. The resulting
under-consumption becomes another barrier to economic diversification, for
an economy in which the majority lives at subsistence level is by
definition largely confined to the production of subsistence goods. The
lack of access to money is a major drawback. The poorest have a number of
constraints (fewer income sources, worse health and education) which
prevent them from investing in activities with higher return or with long
gestation period for the returns to accrue. With little development
investment reaching village economies and ever-increasing money needs, it
is no wonder that since the 1940s migration to urban areas has been a
popular survival strategy. There is evidence that given their limited
ability to handle risk, poor rural households allocate their limited
labor, land, and capital in such a way as to avoid risk and income
fluctuations. The road maintenance micro-enterprise program carried out
under the first phase has demonstrated that a constant stream of income to
its beneficiaries encourages riskier and higher yielding investments.
Weak institutional and financial base for rural development. The broad
national issue of administrative decentralization to local governments has
a major bearing on the solutions to sector issues. In Peru, government
decision-making and fiscal management is highly centralized and, as with
other sectors of the economy, the allocation of responsibilities to
regional and local governments in the road sector is far from settled.
The weakness of local institutions for governance and program
administration, especially in rural communities, is both a symptom of
underdevelopment and an impediment to social and economic growth.In the
road sector, the concurrence of responsibilities between the different
levels of government is hindering the development of institutional
capacity in the municipalities. Currently, all three levels of government
(national, regional and municipal) have some authority to build and
maintain rural roads, a situation that generates confusion about which
level owns the rural roads network and is therefore responsible for its
performance. The Municipal Organic Law of 1984 requires that
municipalities (both provincial and district) maintain the rural road
network. Also, to the extent that they have the resources to do it,
municipalities have the authority to build rural roads. The Transport Law
passed by Congress in late 1999 also extends such competencies to the
Ministry of Transport (MTC). While municipalities currently lack the
institutional and financial capacity to efficiently manage their rural
roads networks, they are in a better position than the MTC to make
-3 -



decisions on the quality of roads that users are willing to support and
those that are being provided, since they are closer to road users.
Therefore, to efficiently manage the rural roads network, municipalities
need to strengthen their organization, develop skills and appropriate
management tools, and increase the voice of users (the latter to establish
a constituency to whom become accountable). In addition to institutional
weakness, most rural municipalities lack the sources of funding needed to
assume real responsibility for road maintenance. On the aggregate,
municipal revenues come mostly from property taxes and cover only about
46% of their total expenditures.   This situation is even worse for small
and rural municipalities, as legislation precludes the imposition of
levies on rural lands and property taxes on comunidades campesinas, thus
limiting their revenue base to the amounts generated by the alcabala tax
(a tax on property transactions) and fees from transport services. The
resulting fiscal deficit is covered through intergovernmental transfers,
mostly from the Fondo de Compensaci6n Municipal (FCM), which has a bias
against recurrent expenditures such as road maintenance. Therefore, a
sustainable financing mechanism is required to assist the municipalities
while ensuring an adequate level of local ownership over the network,
since it is clear that the MTC is not in a position to deliver quality
maintenance throughout the entire road system (more than 70,000 km).Poor
coordination and excessive reliance in central government for delivery of
rural poverty alleviation programs. Peru now has a decade of experience
with a number of poverty alleviation programs focused on rural areas.
Recent reviews of this experience point to the need to improve
coordination among programs as a key factor to increase their
effectiveness. The duplication and weak inter and intra-sectoral
coordination meant that important resources, knowledge and expertise were
not being used to the best advantage.    Poor coordination not only reduces
the impact of interventions by missing the opportunity to benefit from
synergies and economies of scale, but it also results in an excessive
burden of transaction costs and redundant activities for the beneficiary
communities. Furthermore, long-term dependency on external resources
takes away the incentives to develop community-based mechanisms for
self-reliance and may crowd out spaces for creative partnerships between
community organizations and private sector entrepreneurs. Targeting
requires information at the municipal level, more inter-institutional
coordination, and clear consensus among providers and municipal
governments about the nature of benefits and beneficiaries. The evidence
from fieldwork suggests that local leaders do know the gradient of poverty
in their communities. There is a need to empower local governments for an
effective delivery of their responsibilities, strengthening local
organizations, developing institutional base for self-help initiatives,
and creating space for privately-led growth. The National Poverty
Dialogue has opened new spaces for enhancing coordination in this respect
(see Section D.3).
2. Objectives
Overall Goal. The overall purpose of the proposed project is to increase
access to basic social services and economic and income-generating
activities with gender equity, to help alleviate rural poverty and raise
living standards of rural communities in Peru. The project is the second
phase of the Rural Roads Program launched in 1995 to provide a
well-integrated and reliable rural road system in the rural Sierra of Peru
that could complement the Government's multi-sectoral poverty reduction
- 4 -



program.Specific Project Objectives. The specific project development
objectives are to: (a) integrate poorly accessible zones to social
services and regional economic centers; (b) generate employment in rural
areas; and (c) strengthen local institutional capacity to manage rural
roads on a sustainable basis and launch community-based development
initiatives.The first phase of the RRP was carried out between 1995-2000
in 12 departments that ranked highest in rural poverty. The departments,
located mainly in the highlands, were Ancash, Apurimac, Ayacucho,
Cajamarca, Cusco, Huancavelica, Huanuco, JunUn, Madre de Dios, Pasco,
Puno and San Martin. The project improved rural accessibility in 314
districts by rehabilitating about 11,200 km of rural roads and key
secondary roads connecting them to regional centers, and about 3,000 km of
paths for non-motorized transport. This first phase demonstrated that the
rehabilitation of rural road infrastructure, when immediately followed by
sustained maintenance performed through community-based organizations, is
a cost-effective way to restore basic rural accessibility and stimulate
poverty alleviation in the rural highlands of Peru. Rural communities
realized that regardless how well roads are rehabilitated, without
maintenance passage is compromised and with it a wide array of services
that affect their social and economic livelihood. This first phase also
provided important insights on the constraints faced by central agencies
to implement rural development programs. The second phase of the RRP
would build on the gains achieved during the first phase to deepen the
impact of its activities in the same 12 departments. This second phase
would emphasize creating development opportunities through concerted local
interventions to enhance the impact of rural accessibility improvement on
poverty reduction, and strengthening the institutional and financial
sustainability of rural road maintenance to enable a gradual transfer of
responsibilities to the local government environment.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bringing worldwide knowledge on best practices. The Bank's key role in
designing the Rural Roads Program has been well appreciated by the
Borrower. Bank involvement brought several "best practice" approaches,
which were highly innovative and positive in their outcomes. Bank
assistance during the second phase would continue bringing global
experience to further and increase the sustainability of rural road sector
reforms, deepening the consideration of social issues in alleviating rural
poverty, and enhancing coordination with other rural development programs.
These are areas where the Bank has accumulated considerable knowledge and
experience as a result of its extensive worldwide involvement in the
transport sector and its analytical rigor in relating transport
interventions with poverty reduction. Also, through its wide participation
in most of Peru's poverty alleviation programs in rural areas and its
extensive involvement with civil society representatives, the Bank has
accumulated a substantial amount of knowledge on the large number of
programs presently underway and the issues that need to be addressed to
improve their effectiveness. Stable Financing for Reforms. The proposed
project is part of GOP's strategy to alleviate rural poverty and
consolidate financing for the rural road rehabilitation and maintenance
plan for the next three years. The plan sets targets to attain conditions
needed to unlock development/reduce poverty and develop institutional and
financial capacity at both local and central levels of government. Steady
multilateral support is an essential element of the government financial
strategy for the continuation of the successful Rural Roads Program
- 5 -



started in 1995.Complimentary synergies and coordination with other major
donors.   The effective and synergistic collaboration with the IDB started
under the RRP has been well appreciated by both MTC and PCR, and pointed
out as a prime example of what can be achieved when both institutions work
together. The parties involved have developed an open and effective
dialogue that has overcome constraints in institutional capacity at the
national and local levels and has catalyzed project implementation.
Various advantages stemmed from this partnership: (i) reaching an agreed
position on key policy issues and strategies. Project and policy issues
were openly discussed during the implementation of the first phase and
preparation of the follow on project --with IDB, PCR and the Bank acting
as equal parties. This has not only increased the Banks' leverage with
the Borrower but also contributed to adding transparency to the
relationship, and in turn, to building ownership of the project; (ii)
mobilizing an enlarged multidisciplinary team. Supervising the
implementation of the first phase entailed 12 joint missions between
1996-2000, staffed with consultants and staff from IDB and the Bank (both
headquarters and local offices) and allowing skills mix that would have
not been possible in the absence of this collaboration due to budgetary
constraints. This collaboration went beyond joint missions: the Bank
financed several social studies (e.g., gender, social assessment) and
coordinated the work with NGOs, while IDB financed several audits (e.g.,
review of the micro-enterprise program, environmental audit); (iii)
simplifying PCR's task management of the project through the unification
of project operational procedures and reporting requirements (which were
agreed upon by the Banks under the MOP); and (iv) enriching the dialogue
within the IDB and Bank team, as the respective staff brought the
knowledge of best practices developed by each institution.
4. Description
Table with project component description and cost.
Rehabilitation of Rural Roads and Connecting Roads
Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Rural Roads and Connecting Roads
Improvement of Non-Motorized Rural Transport
Provincial Road Management Pilot
River Transport Improvement Pilot
Institutional Development:
Improvement of Rural Transport      Policy and Strategies:
* Improvement of Rural Road Planning and Management
* Development of community-based microenterprises for road maintenance
* Project Administration
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       151
6. Implementation
Project Set-up. The proposed project will continue relying on the
successful arrangements used during the first phase of the RRP. MTC will
have overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation.
Actual implementation will be delegated to a specialized unit, the
Proyecto Especial de Rehabilitaci6n del Transporte -Programa de Caminos
Rurales (PCR), which was created in July 1995 by Ministerial decree. With
staff and budget separated from the rest of the Ministry, the unit enjoys
- 6 -



ample technical, administrative and financial autonomy. Its limited
personnel is engaged at private-sector salaries and paid from local
counterpart funds. Most of the tasks are undertaken by consultants
engaged under the project. The unit is led by an Executive Director who
reports directly to the Vice-Minister of Transport. Implementing the
project within the proposed time frame demands strong skills to manage
hundreds of road links and contracts spread over difficult remote rural
areas.   PCR will delegate more day-to-day responsibility on its 10 field
offices. Due to the special nature of the statutes of PCR, its duration
is in principle limited to the execution of the proposed project. At the
third annual review, Government jointly with IDB and the Bank will review
the need to continue with PCR after project completion, taking account of
the progress made in the decentralization agenda. MEF and MTC have agreed
that in the long run the role of PCR will shift from execution to
monitoring and provision of technical, institutional and financial
assistance for programs carried out by a diverse number of executing
agencies, including regional entities and municipalities. The project
operational set-up would have a three-layer organization that would
attempt to efficiently achieve an adequate monitoring of project
execution, the decentralization of responsibilities, and the participation
of municipalities and communities, as follows:(a) PCR's central unit in
Lima would be responsible for general project management. This would
entail: (i) establishing indicative budgetary allocations and investment
programs; (ii) entering into inter-administrative "Participation
Agreements" with provincial municipalities with jurisdiction over the
project areas; (iii) coordinating interventions with other central
government agencies as well as civil society representatives involved in
rural development programs through Participation Agreements and recurrent
consultations; (iv) designing and coordinating the institutional
strengthening component; (v) issuing implementation guidelines (through
the Operational Manual and further reviews of it); (vi) carrying out
procurement of consultant services and contracts for civil works; (vii)
allocating funds to the fiduciary arrangements set under the maintenance
co-financing mechanism; (viii) upkeeping the project impact monitoring
system; (ix) auditing performance of its deconcentrated zonal units; and
(x) preparing PMR reports and processing disbursement requests.(b) The
deconcentrated zonal units of PCR (Unidades Zonales, UZ), located in the
project areas (almost one per department or region participating in the
project), would be responsible for managing the work programs. This would
entail: (i) promoting the project among, and entering into agreements
(convenios) with municipalities and communities; (ii) coordinating their
rural development and poverty alleviation programs with other
decentralized agencies and NGOs established in the area; (iii) defining
and programming investments in consultation with the municipalities; (iv)
procuring small contracts; and (v) monitoring and reporting implementation
of the various project components.(c) Municipalities and communities at
the local level. Though the project funds would not be channeled to the
municipalities, they would participate in: (i) agreeing between
provincial and district municipalities on the priorities of the road
subprojects identified by the communities, and signing the respective
Participation Agreements with PCR; (ii) contributing to the cost of
maintenance through the co-financing mechanism; (iii) undertaking the
institutional action programs agreed under the project, including
preparing transport plans, road inventories and exchanging information on
the performance of the rural road system; (iv) overseeing the delivery of
-7 -



programs, including approving maintenance works and payments and reporting
to PCR any difficulties in the implementation of the project; and (v)
joining PCR in monitoring and evaluating project impacts.Rural communities
in the targeted districts would be directly involved in:     (i) identifying
road subprojects and recommending solutions for improving transport
services along the rural road network as well as the unclassified network
of NMT tracks; (ii) contributing to the cost of the works for
community-managed components, forming Comites Viales Rurales to undertake
the improvement of NMT tracks and maintain them thereafter; (iii)
undertaking at their own initiative and risk local development initiatives
identified with project assistance; and (iv) joining PCR in monitoring and
evaluating project impacts.Project Monitoring. The monitoring of project
implementation encompasses two levels. One consists of the reviews of
project performance and annual plans that will be undertaken by PCR on a
continuous basis; the other consists of periodic performance audits,
participatory evaluation exercises and impact assessment studies that
would be carried out by independent firms and specialized NGOs. The
application of the project information and monitoring system would allow
PCR, IDB and the Bank to ascertain the progress in the implementation of
each sub-project and the degree of achievement of the project development
objectives. Every six months, auditors acceptable to IDB and the Bank
will conduct a performance audit of the implementation of the project by
examining a sample of sub-projects under execution by the regional
offices. The audits will focus on the execution of the project physical
components (quality and cost of works), procurement procedures, and
compliance with the guidelines of the Project Operational Manual and the
performance indicators agreed between PCR and each UZ. Through the audit,
cost comparisons will be made available and reviewed to identify
procurement problems or other factors contributing to variations among the
different regions; the scope of the sample of work sites included in the
audit will be adjusted according to these findings. Reporting. PCR will
prepare quarterly progress reports for all components of the project,
which will be sent to IDB and the Bank within one month after the end of
each quarter. The reports will describe: (i) progress achieved during
the previous quarter in the implementation and in the achievement of the
objectives of the project based on the performance indicators; (ii) an
assessment of the problems and issues derived from the implementation of
the project; (iii) information on procurement processes and contract
awards completed during the quarter; and (iv) updated implementation and
disbursement schedules for the following quarter; and (v) status of
compliance with the legal covenants contained in the Loan Agreement. The
reports will provide timely and updated information on project
implementation, highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending
actions and commenting on progress in executing previous
recommendations.Annual Reviews. Each year, the Bank, IDB and the
Government will conduct a formal joint review to assess: (i) progress in
project implementation and achievement of the project objectives on the
basis of agreed performance indicators and targets; (ii) the performance
of PCR and each of its field units; (iii) the effectiveness of the work
programs in terms of community and local government involvement, local
contractors response, coordination with other development programs, and
achievement of project objectives; (iv) progress in implementing the
institutional development components, including compliance of
participating municipalities with the Institutional Action Programs; (v)
the adequacy of the procedures stated in the Project Operational Manual;
- 8 -



(vi) progress in restructuring and strengthening road maintenance
administration and finance; and (vii) the justification of the investment
and institutional proposals for implementation during the subsequent
year. The project implementation schedule and monitoring indicators will
be updated during the annual review. In the event of unsatisfactory
progress, Government will prepare remedial action plans satisfactory to
IDB and the Bank within two months of the review. Participants will
include key representatives from MTC, MEF, PCR and its UZs, NGOs involved
in project activities, decentralized agencies involved in rural
development programs, and when appropriate, groups of
beneficiaries.Mid-Term Review.    The annual review scheduled for 2003 will
constitute a Mid-Term Review of the RRP, an opportunity for a more
comprehensive assessment of the achievements of the project at that date
and for a policy discussion on the future of the program. Prior to this
review, PCR will conduct an evaluation of the economic, social and
environmental impact of the project in a sample of communities along the
roads rehabilitated by the RRP and a "control" sample of communities along
roads located in the project area but not benefited from the program. In
addition to covering the topics listed above, this review will examine the
progress made by Government with regard to: (i) its agenda for
administrative decentralization and the need to adjust the operational set
up of the project and of the RRP accordingly; (ii) the establishment of a
strategy for rural roads funding; (iii) the improvement of inter-agency
coordination; and (iv) evaluation of the two pilots on Provincial Road
Management and River Transport Improvement and the participation of
municipalities in project activities, including the possibility that
certain municipalities became direct executing agencies under PCR
monitoring in subsequent phases of the program. The review will consider
proposals for restructuring or reorienting the program, taking account of
all relevant sector and project issues.Project Supervision. Building on
the experience gained during implementation of the first phase, IDB and
the Bank will supervise the project through a shared project team. The
respective task managers will coordinate the timing and composition of
field missions. Their frequency will be guided by the progress and
special requirements of project implementation. The missions are expected
to supervise the project twice a year. However, the supervision plan
calls for a greater involvement of the respective offices in Lima. The
local offices will play an active role in: (i) reviewing sub-project
eligibility and procurement; (ii) monitoring the monthly update of the
project information system; (iii) visiting work sites and municipalities
involved in the technical assistance program; and (iv) providing follow-up
and problem-resolution support.
7. Sustainability
The project derives its sustainability from two different aspects:
financial and institutional. On the financial side, the project provides
a venue for continuous dialogue with the Government of Peru regarding the
mobilization of local resources and revenue-sharing mechanisms for road
maintenance. This will constitute a preamble to the ultimate definition
of the Government's decentralization agenda. On the institutional side,
the project exposes local governments to organizational shortcuts based on
contracting out most of the works and services to local consultants, small
contractors and community-based organizations using work methods tailored
to their capacity. Early involvement of beneficiaries and the reliance on
solutions well-adapted to the working environment of municipalities would
-9-



increase capacity and build pressure on local governments for continuous
road maintenance.Long-term project sustainability is linked to the
establishment of a financial mechanism for the municipalities to undertake
road maintenance activities. Without adequate allocations on road
maintenance, the condition of the rehabilitated roads would begin to
deteriorate. However, municipalities lack the necessary financial
resources, as intergovernmental transfers from the FCM and other federal
sources are presently insufficient to cover maintenance expenditures.
Shifting investment resources to current expenditures, improved revenue
generation and increased intergovernmental transfers could potentially
increase road maintenance resources. The latter mechanisms would be
developed under the proposed project to ensure a sustainable source of
funds for road maintenance and managementThe implementation of the first
phase has demonstrated how beneficiary participation and a clear
perception of the social impact of the project invigorate sustainability
in many ways (see lessons learned). It has also shown that community
arrangements (such as the Roads Committees formed for the non-motorized
tracks) will not consistently deliver maintenance without some kind of
support (either monetary or in kind).
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Review of Bank Experience on Rural Roads Projects. The principal problems
in achieving sustainable results have been: institutional weaknesses and
inadequate coordination, leading to delays in implementation and
incomplete execution of the works; inadequate monitoring of results; weak
sustainability, as the necessary institutional and financial frameworks
are rarely addressed. Bank-wide experience resulted in the following
advice for the design of the RRP: (i) there should be a strong government
commitment and beneficiary participation in defining priorities and
funding for maintenance to ensure the sustainability of services and
infrastructure; (ii) a central focal point should be established for
formulating and reviewing rural roads policy, for project planning and
execution, and for coordination between the ministries of agriculture,
interior and transport; (iii) a strong and dedicated project management
team should be created to assure timely implementation and adequate
monitoring of the project; (iv) the capacity for labor-based methods and
intermediate means of transport should be developed; (v) the methodology
to screen road subprojects should be agreed with the borrower and based on
sound economic analysis (including social benefits estimation and
cost-effectiveness approach for basic access); and (vi) a system to
monitor the benefits of road subprojects during and after implementation
of the project should be established early in the implementation
period.Recent Bank sector work has analyzed the links between poverty and
transport and how transport operations can contribute to poverty reduction
supporting either directly or indirectly approaches. The following
conclusions are particularly relevant for the RRP: (i) the process of
poverty reduction is embedded in a broad range of socio-economic
activities to which transport services provide intermediate inputs.
Transport alone cannot reduce poverty, though it serves a crucial
complementary role (it plays a leading role in economic growth at early
stages of development, as transport investments stimulate economic growth
through market widening effect). Consequently, more systematic
integration of transport components with other sectoral interventions (for
example, in education and health) is necessary so as to strengthen poverty
reduction strategies; (ii) transport needs of the very poor should be
- 10 -



recognized. Income is a key determinant of individual travel behavior.
The very poor often are not able to afford the cost of using "for payment"
transport services. Their main transport mode is walking. They spend a
great time and a substantial amount of personal energy on travel, but
cover comparatively short distances. In rural areas, a better
understanding of NMT services is critical to making the most of
opportunities to incorporate project components that directly assist the
very poor; (iii) mechanisms for the poor to voice their transport needs
are typically weak and should be improved, especially at the local level.
Approaches include surveying existing problems and needs, establishing
explicit participation in collaboration or partnership with NGOs, and
enabling expression through open markets; and (iv) labor-intensive methods
in road work, where relatively low wages make them cost-effective, provide
a sustainable source of suplementary employment for the poor, especially
in rural communities.Lessons from consultations with the poor.In view of
the strong poverty focus of the RRP, the findings of the broad-based
consultations with the poor recently performed by the Bank are also worth
examining for project design. LAC country reports on the Voices of the
Poor put great emphasis on problems of employment; both unemployment and
the variability of employment and wages are seen as problems. Another key
problem is the deficiencies in infrastructure: lack of water, sanitation,
electricity, street lights and roads. In rural areas, the problems are
more linked to problems of low productivity such as lack of access to
credit, markets (roads), irrigation, and land; lack of skills is a
problem, but not the lack of basic education. In contrast with the World
Development Report strategy, the poor do not place such a high value (as
the Bank does) on health and education. The emphasis on employment also
reflects the fact that growth has been disappointing, and not particularly
labor-intensive in the kinds of unskilled labor possessed by the poor.
There is a need for much more attention to basic infrastructure, both in
urban areas (water, sanitation) and rural areas (roads). Similarly, the
Bank is presently reviewing with the Government of Peru ways of improving
efficiency and equity in social spending which will ultimately benefit the
poor. To enhance the quality and sustainability of the recommendations, a
series of consultations have been conducted under Peru's National Poverty
Fora. The lessons learned from these consultations include: (i) poverty
is multi-faceted, thus the need for coordination around problems rather
than sectors. The strategies proposed by participants emphasized the need
for multi-sectoral strategies to address complex and intertwined problems.
Problems that require a multi-sectoral approach include alcoholism,
domestic violence; (ii) strategies must be adapted to regional
realities.   The differences and disparities between the regions of Peru
are great, so centralized strategies will undoubtedly fail in a country
with such diversity; and (iii) more efficient and effective social
services can improve well-being only partially. Equally important are
income earning opportunities and democratic and transparent decision
making at all levels. Participants in Cusco emphasized the need to
provide incentives for and promote development of productive projects, and
decrease the number of assistential programs in favor of productive ones.
Lessons from the implementation of the first phase. The evidence gathered
through the implementation of the first phase of the RRP has generally
confirmed the validity of the principles and strategies underlying its
design.   In particular, the following lessons are relevant for enhancing
the sustainability of the second phase: (i) beneficiary participation
invigorates project sustainability in many ways, even through the implicit
- 11 -



risk associated with stakeholder participation (a dimension that rather
than ignored should be nurtured). In the highlands of Peru, a history of
unfulfilled promises, poor results (with the benefits of government
interventions vanished soon after due to lack of maintenance), bad advice
and a host of similar problems, has led to cynicism on the part of many
communities. PCR has realized that perhaps its main asset is the
credibility it has gained before the communities by delivering the
commitments taken on during the participatory processes and not
compromising on the quality and standards of its interventions; (ii) the
fragile dynamics of local development call for close monitoring of
benefits distribution effects. For example, the micro-enterprise program
has gained the acceptance of communities and government officials.
However, no matter how deeply rooted in the community, this support might
decline in time if communities perceive they are not participating in the
economic benefits the program is bringing to micro-enterprise members.
This underscores the importance of complementary local development
initiatives that directly benefit the communities where they are located,
and an exit strategy that opens opportunities to other members of the
community once the micro-enterprise (or its members) become strong enough
to continue on their own without direct project support; (iii) side social
benefits, when clearly demonstrated and appreciated by the parties, become
powerful engines in the drive for sustainability. In the dialogue for the
design of a financial mechanism for rural road maintenance, government
officials placed as much (perhaps more) value on the social benefits
derived from the continuity of the micro-enterprise program than on the
benefits of road maintenance itself; and (iv) the improvement of
Non-Motorized Transport tracks and trails has become one of the most
strategic interventions of the project to alleviate rural poverty, as it
enabled the project to reach the most vulnerable.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Envoironmental Assessment.   This follow-on project
builds on the various activities undertaken in the context of the RRP to
address environmental concerns, namely: (i) setting guidelines and
technical specifications for screening, designing and executing road
rehabilitation subprojects under the project. The RRP's Environmental
Manual published in 1996 became an integral part of bidding documents and
of the operational procedures applied under the first phase of the RRP to
streamline environmental assessment capacity in PCR's project cycle.
Other project technical manuals, such as the one for upgrading tracks for
non-motorized transport, include sections on protecting the environment;
(ii) monitoring compliance with environmental guidelines and
specifications through bi-annual performance audits. The technical and
performance audits carried out every six months since 1996 over a sample
of subprojects helped in identifying potential negative effects and
keeping the focus on environmental issues; (iii) assessing ex-post the
direct and indirect impacts of project activities on the environment,
through the project's impact assessment study carried out in 2000; (iv)
examining the quality of environmental procedures and their application in
the field, through a comprehensive environmental assessment conducted in
2000. This exercise provided the basis for fine-tuning environmental
procedures and implementation practices to be applied under the proposed
project; and (v) focussing on the restoration of environmental assets
- 12 -



along right-of-ways. The Reforestation Manual published in March 2000 is
an example of the current emphasis on promoting more sustainable
development along rural roads. The Rural Roads Program has been
supporting reforestation programs in partnerships with PROMANCHS to better
manage environmental impacts. Social Assessment. Social assessment under
the RRP is an evolving process that entails a continuum of participatory
approaches, assessments and studies performed throughout the design,
implementation and evaluation of the various phases of the program. The
program concentrates on ensuring that rural accessibility improvements
reach the poorer segment of the rural population. The results achieved
during the first phase corroborate that the methodologies applied gave
adequate priority to reaching impoverished communities in the project
area.   This proposed second phase provides the opportunity to deepen the
analysis of social issues building on the recommendations of those
activities and on the feedback from the monitoring activities that will
take place during project implementation. Since the project entails the
rehabilitation of existing roads, no direct negative effects are foreseen
and the risks of indirect negative impacts linked with human activities
(i.e., colonization, deforestation, resettlement) are minimal. A case
study was conducted in 1999 to document possible social side effects
associated with the execution of large project investments in relatively
isolated areas. The study, carried out in the district of Kiteni,
concluded that road construction activities neither had negative impacts
on the local labor market and the price of goods with greater local
demand, nor caused social disruption (e.g., excessive pressure on health
services, delinquency, social conflicts). The study also depicted the
high vulnerability of these local economies and how road expenditures had
only partially mitigated the significant downturn of economic activity in
the surveyed area that takes place every year after the coffee
harvest.Similarly, another case study conducted in 1999 assessed the
social and cultural impact of improving non-motorized tracks in
communities that have no other form of access. One of the issues explored
in the study was whether compensating the communities (albeit partially)
for their work under the project could weaken their willingness to
undertake communal initiatives on their own (the collective faenas had
been traditionally remunerated providing coca and aguardiente). On the
contrary, a small compensation in cash proved quite beneficial for it
helped communities to strengthen their organizations and cope with their
staggering needs for cash (which is scarce in the highlands given the
extensive use of bartering). Communities and road committee members
reinvested their savings in local undertakings, improving their welfare
and stimulating their local economies. Another issue was whether the
creation of road committees resulted in overlapping or interference with
elected authorities. No complains were found in this respect.
Communities were able to choose the form of organization. In cases where
the communities chose to collectively undertake the project works, the
community leaders were designated to lead the road committee; in other
cases where only community members willing to participate joined the
committee, committee authorities were elected by its members. For some
communities, participating in a "Road Committee" meant having first time
access to a bank account and acquiring new organizational and technical
skills.    Potential Impacts on Indigenous People.   An estimated 1.7
million people live in registered indigenous communities in the highlands
or the Amazon region of Peru, of which 81 percent are extremely poor. With
its strong poverty focus, the RRP (and its NMT component in particular)
- 13 -



has reached many impoverished communities composed of indigenous groups.
As it is current practice among NGOs operating in the highlands, the
on-going project has not dealt with its beneficiaries identity as
Indigenas per se, but rather has sought their participation in project
decisions and activities, and to the extent possible has relied on
traditional community structures to deliver project components. In
contrast, NGOs working in the Amazon basin take into account the
indigenous identity as a major variable. Accordingly, the pilot on river
transport improvement will explore the potential impact of rural
accessibility improvement on the population, with special attention to
indigenous and vulnerable groups, and their access to project benefits.
As noted in previous Bank sector work, one of the most universally
expressed desires of indigenous peoples is to gain equitable access to
government operations and to the basic public and social services offered
to other citizens.l/    During the consultations with grassroots
organizations in Pucallpa (November 1999), various representatives of
indigenous organizations made a strong statement in this respect. While
the nature of the interventions planned under the pilot does not pose any
risk to indigenous groups, the pilot is an opportunity to develop
participatory processes that are inclusive and address the needs of these
vulnerable groups. Indigenous communities are socio-economic
organizations legally recognized under the Peruvian constitution, and as
such may carry out projects on their lands with funding obtained from
their members, government and other agencies. The holistic approach
underlying the design of the pilot presents an opportunity to promote
activities aimed at empowering indigenous groups and gaining self
sufficiency and local capacity to deal with development problems. The
table below summarizes some basic social indicators pertaining to the
three locations where the pilot will be implemented. The data illustrate
the severity of poverty in the three locations selected.Social issues to
be dealt with under the pilot include: (i) the inclusion of indigenous
groups living in settlements along the selected pilot locations in
screening pilot interventions; (ii) participation of indigenous groups in
pilot activities and benefits; and (iii) participation of indigenous
groups in monitoring impact of pilot activities. PCR will engage an NGO
with ample experience in working with indigenous communities settled along
the Upper Ucayali river to design and carry out a comprehensive
consultation process aimed at involving indigenous groups in the
selection, design and implementation of pilot activities and preparing an
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) with the people affected.
Prior to starting implementation of the pilot works, PCR will furnish to
IDB and the Bank the IPDPs for each of the locations selected to be
prepared following guidelines satisfactory to the Bank (which were
recieved before Board presentation), together with the results of the
consultation process as well as a participation strategy for engaging
indigenous groups in pilot implementation and monitoring activities.
Impact on women.   An exploratory gender impact assessment (performed by
Centro, a Peruvian NGO, with funding provided by the Gender Support Fund)
analyzed gender roles and attitudes, and the differential effects of the
project on the lives of women and men, with respect to seven issues:
access to services, women's mobility, time use in domestic activities,
access to resources and benefits, participation in local markets, labor
market dynamics, and women's participation in community organization and
leadership. On balance, the authors report generally positive effects of
improvement of the rural roads system: to a greater or lesser degree it
- 14 -



has facilitated mobility, communications, access to resources, and
participation in the labor market for both women and men, and women report
a high level of satisfaction with the improvements made. However, the
authors report inter- and intra-gender differences in the extent and
nature of the effects of the project; also, in some variables, no effects
were detected; and some aspects of the project may have had negative
effects (for example, low levels of women participation in maintenance
micro-enterprises might contribute to reproducing a pattern of male
authority in the organization of road maintenance). Local gender
relations, economic realities, and other factors (e.g., alcoholism and
increased rural-urban migration, male abandonment of household) mediate
the ability of road improvements to effect changes in many major aspects
of daily life, including access to services, women's mobility patterns,
labor market participation. The usefulness of the findings is greatly
increased by the recognition that:    (i) neither women nor men constitute
homogenous groups; and (ii) gender relations vary locally (in spite of the
apparent homogeneity of the communities sampled); consequently, project
impact studies need to differentiate between relevant groups and tie their
findings to specific geographic areas or communities.
1/ Peru Indigenous
Peoples' Development Background, Policies and Program Strategy. World
Bank, November 1998.Compliance with Safeguard Policies.      For the pilot
on river transport improvement, the environmental policy and indigenous
policy of the Bank have technically not been complied with because the
environmental assessment and IPDP were not prepared and fully disclosed
before appraisal. The pilot is of a very limited scale -- it represent
less than 3.5 percent of the total project cost - and its purpose is,
precisely, to develop and test a strategic framework for improving rural
accessibility in the Selva region in a manner that will enable a
sustainable social and economic development of these areas. An exception
to the above mentioned policies is requested because the activities in
question are minor and will only begin to take place two years after the
expected date of effectiveness and, in addition, the following conditions
would provide an adequate safeguard: (a) before Board presentation the
Borrower has presented to the Bank satisfactory guidelines for carrying
out an environmental assessment and preparing an IPDP with regard to this
pilot component; (b) a disbursement condition has been established in the
Legal Agreement that the IPDP and environmental assessment for the pilot
on river transport improvement will be carried out in accordance with said
guidelines; and (c) a covenant has been incorporated to the Legal
Agreement that the component will not be carried out absent the existence
of such satisfactory environmental assessment and IPDP, regardless of
where the financing may come from (IBRD, IDB or local counterpart funds).
Finalizing full consultantion and analysis from an environmental and
indigenous point of view at appraisal would have meant that the results
would become stale by the time they would be applied in two years time.
Hence, it seems more sensible to finalize the safeguard work when needed,
controlling the situation through the conditions listed above. The pilot
would finance small subprojects screened and designed through community
involvement.    The specific environmental impact assessment (EIA) will be
completed as the pilot interventions are identified and designed, in
compliance with the Environmental Assessment safeguard. A "negative list"
of environmentally sensitive activities will be included in the MOP once
the EIA is completed. Moreover, key safeguards built into the pilot
design ensure its implementation will have no adverse impacts on the
- 15 -



environment and/or the livelihood of the communities in the pilot area,
namely: (i) the pilot will be carried out in a purposely limited area.
Centering the activities around a few locations helps to keep under
control the pilot interventions and their impacts, thus reducing any risks
associated with them; (ii) the proposed accessibility improvements hinge
on the use of existing waterways and river transport services for
inter-regional transportation, to avoid environmental damage and eliminate
the risk of induced migration; and (iii) a substantial portion of the
pilot resources --which represent about 23 percent of the pilot total
cost-- are devoted to completing environmental, social and economic impact
assessments for each of the areas selected, and designing and implementing
a participatory monitoring and evaluation system to keep track of outcomes
and medium term direct and indirect impacts.The exploratory assessments
conducted during pilot preparation confirmed there are indigenous peoples
among the intended beneficiaries of the pilot. Preparation of the pilot
has followed the sound participatory principles that PCR has been applying
under the RRP. Based on country reports (indigenous profile, legal
framework studies), and lessons learned with ongoing operations including
the RRP and the Peru Indigenous People LIL, the project has prepared a
specific strategy to address indigenous issues. This strategy provides
the framework required for the preparation of specific IPDPs for the
indigenous communities in the upper Ucayali River through a participatory
process to ensure they get their full share of the intended pilot
benefits. The reasons for taking this approach are as follows: (i) as
noted above, the pilot consists of small subprojects to be screened,
designed and implemented by the respective beneficiary communities. For
their small size, these interventions do not pose a risk to Indigenous
Groups living in settlements closed to the three pilot locations, (in fact
the pilot will benefit Indigenous Groups); and (ii) the pilot
interventions are scheduled for implementation in the third year of the
project implementation period. Completing the participatory assessments
so in advance would not only render these processes outdated but also
raise expectations within the communities that could even turn into
undesirable social effects if the entire cycle --from identification to
implementation-- is not closely managed, and/or the interventions are not
materialized in a timeframe perceived as reasonable by the communities.
PCR will complete these processes once both funding and management
capacity are in place.    The IPDPs developed under the pilot will be
submitted to the Bank to ensure full compliance with the safeguard policy
before starting implementing any civil works (condition of disbursement
under the pilot). This is considered appropriate given the nature of the
pilot, its very limited scale within the context of the project, and PCR's
track record on the systematic use of participatory and impact evaluation
tools.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jose Luis Irigoyen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-5134
Fax: 202-676-9594
- 16 -



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 17 -



