Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 221 1 0-PE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
MAY 25, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit - LCC6C
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2001)
Currency Unit = C6rdoba
C$13.1 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.076 = C$1:00
(US$ 1:00 = C$7.8 in December, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT                Average Daily Traffic
ARI                Acuerdo de Reestructuraci6n Institucional
Institutional Restructuring Agreement
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
COERCO             Corporaci6n de Empresas Regionales de Construcci6n
Regional Highway Construction Agencies
DANIDA             Danish International Development Agency
DGP                Direcci6n General de Planificaci6n - Directorate General of Planning
DGTT               Direcci6n General de Transporte Terrestre - DG of Transport
DGV                Direcci6n General de Vialidad - Directorate General of Roads
EAT                Equipo Apoyo T6cnico - Technical Support Team
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
HDM                Highway Design and Maintenance Model
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
MCT                Ministry of Construction and Transport
MTI                Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure
PPMM               Proyecto Piloto de Microempresas de Mantenimiento
Pilot Project of Microenterprises for Maintenance
RMF                Road Maintenance Fund
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
VOC                Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Enmnanuel James



PERU
SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          26
2. Financial                                                                         29
3. Technical                                                                         31
4. Institutional                                                                     32
5. Environmental                                                                     34
6. Social                                                                            35
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                42
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    44
2. Critical risks                                                                    44



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     45
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            46
2. Other                                                                              46
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          48
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         49
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          50
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    55
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         70
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   71
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               80
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     89
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   90
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  92
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            94
Annex 11: The First Phase of the Rural Roads Program                                     96
An Economic and Social Impact Assessment
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 31453



PERU
SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFT
Date: May 25, 2001                                Team Leader: Jose Luis Irigoyen
Country Manager/Director: Isabel M. Guerrero      Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P044601                               Sector(s): TR - Rural Roads
Lending Instrument: Sector hivestment & Maintenance   Theme(s): Rural Development; Poverty Reduction
Loan (SIM)
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ j Grant    [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 50
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%                             Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      51.00            0.00         51.00
IBRD                                                           0.00           50.00         50.00
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                               42.71            7.29         50.00
Total:                                                        93.71           57.29        151.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF PERU
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION & COMMUNICATIONS (MTC) - PERT-PCR
Av. Garcilaso de la Vega 1351 - Centro Civico y Comercial de Lima, Lima 1
Address: Av. Garcilaso de la Vega 1351 - Centro Civico y Comercial de Lima, Lima 1
Contact Person: Ing. Mario Quiroga Guerinoni
Tel: (511) 330 3360               Fax: (511) 332 6844                Email: director@pcr.gob.pe
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005
Annual    3.50       14.00      16.00      16.50
Cumulative    3.50       17.50     33.50      50.00
Project implementation period: 4.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
XS PAD Fwnf Re, M -n. 2WD



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Overall Goal. The overall purpose of the proposed project is to increase access to basic social services and
economic and income-generating activities with gender equity, to help alleviate rural poverty and raise
living standards of rural communities in Peru. The project is the second phase of the Rural Roads Program
launched in 1995 to provide a well-integrated and reliable rural road system in the rural Sierra of Perii that
could complement the Government's multi-sectoral poverty reduction program.
Specific Project Objectives. The specific project development objectives are to: (a) integrate poorly
accessible zones to social services and regional economic centers; (b) generate employment in rural areas;
and (c) strengthen local institutional capacity to manage rural roads on a sustainable basis and launch
community-based development initiatives.
The first phase of the RRP was carried out between 1995-2000 in 12 departments that ranked highest in
rural poverty. The departments, located mainly in the highlands, were Ancash, Apurimac, Ayacucho,
Cajamarca, Cusco, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Junin, Madre de Dios, Pasco, Puno and San Martin. The
project improved rural accessibility in 314 districts by rehabilitating about 1 1,200 km of rural roads and
key secondary roads connecting them to regional centers, and about 3,000 km of paths for non-motorized
transport. This first phase demonstrated that the rehabilitation of rural road infrastructure, when
immnediately followed by sustained maintenance performed through community-based organizations, is a
cost-effective way to restore basic rural accessibility and stimulate poverty alleviation in the rural
highlands of Peru. Rural communities realized that regardless how well roads are rehabilitated, without
maintenance passage is compromised and with it a wide array of services that affect their social and
economic livelihood. This first phase also provided important insights on the constraints faced by central
agencies to implement rural development programs.
The second phase of the RRP would build on the gains achieved during the first phase to deepen the impact
of its activities in the same 12 departments. This second phase would emphasize creating development
opportunities through concerted local interventions to enhance the impact of rural accessibility
improvement on poverty reduction, and strengthening the institutional and financial sustainability of rural
road maintenance to enable a gradual transfer of responsibilities to the local government environment.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
By project end, a comprehensive impact survey would attempt to assess the outcome of project activities on
the livelihood of the rural population. (See Annex 11 for a detailed list of the hypotheses and indicators
measured at the end of the first phase). The project's contribution towards the goal of reducing rural
poverty and improving living standards would be measured at the project's end in terms of
*   an overall reduction of the incidence of poverty and extreme poverty by 1 and 2 percentage points,
respectively, in the areas benefited by the project;
*   an overall reduction of the poverty gap by 1.5 and 2.2 percentage points in areas served by the
rehabilitated rural roads and non-motorized tracks, respectively;
*   an increase in the number of visits to health posts and hospitals by 20 percent, reflecting both greater
access and consumption capacity; and
*   a gradual diversification of the income-generation structute and more dynamic labor markets in areas
benefited by the project (e.g., percentage of wage-earned income/time earning wage increased,
- 2 -



percentage of non-agriculture income increased).
The key development outcomes and the performance indicators selected to measure their achievement at the
end of the project are as follows:
1. Poorly accessible rural zones integrated to social services and regional economic drivers:
* 3.5 million beneficiaries in the project area are interlinked by a reliable and affordable transportation
system;
*   travel time to markets and district centers decreased by 40 percent after rehabilitation of project roads;
and
*   the availability of freight and passenger transport services increased by 30 percent and their cost
reduced by 15 percent with respect to the levels reported in the baseline studies, three years after
completion of road improvements.
2. Employment generated and creation of further income-earning activities stimulated in rural areas:
*   10,000 one-year equivalent seasonal unskilled jobs generated by road rehabilitation works;
*   5,500 one-year equivalent permanent unskilled jobs generated by road maintenance works;
3   300 community organizations and/or micro-enterprises are engaged in local development
initiatives/income-earning undertakings identified through the Local Development Window (LDW),
with women participation above 30%.
3. Local institutional capacity strengthened to manage rural transport infrastructure on a sustainable basis
and launch community-based development initiatives:
o   100% of provincial municipalities co-finance with Rural Roads Program (PCR) the maintenance of the
rural road network rehabilitated in their jurisdictions through the arrangements set up under the project;
o   At least 12 provincial municipalities graduated under the program assume full responsibility for
execution of project activities;
*   470 micro-enterprises engaged under contracts to deliver quality maintenance.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16796-PE          Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/22/97
The overriding objective of the Bank assistance strategy for Peru is to support Government efforts to
achieve the sustained, continuous reduction of poverty. The primary elements of the anti-poverty program
consist of raising the quality and improving the access of the poor to productivity-increasing human capital,
market-integrating infrastructure, and the full rights and opportunities of private ownership. The proposed
project will be presented together with an update of the CAS, which includes this project under its low case
scenario.
The proposed project would strongly support these objectives by restoring basic rural accessibility,
improving the availability and affordability of rural transport services, developing provincial and local
capacity to manage rural transport assets on a sustainable basis and supporting community-based
development initiatives. The project would focus investments on areas with high levels of poverty and
emphasize labor-based construction methods as a means to generate employment in those areas. In this
manner, the project would help improve the access of rural communities to markets, on- and off-farm
economic opportunities, and social services, and bring these communities into the economic
- 3 -



mainstream--the essence of any poverty alleviation program. This strategy also implies changing historical
behaviors that have resulted from generations living in isolation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government of Peru is pursuing a comprehensive strategy directed towards economic growth and
poverty alleviation. Macro-economic reformns initiated in 1990 are central to this and include: reduction of
the public deficit, elimination of price controls, tariff reduction, elimination or reduction of subsidies, and
privatization of state-owned assets. The Government has also introduced a broad range of programs for
poverty alleviation and improvement of living conditions, with targeted interventions in health, education,
agriculture and rural infrastructure. Poverty and social indicators improved between 1994 and 1997,
although the improvement in social welfare has not been shared equitably, with rural areas (especially in
the highlands) and the indigenous population falling behind. This positive trend could not be sustained
between 1997 and 2000 due to a deep economic recession and the devastating effects of El Nino, which
spurred an increase in poverty rates in both urban and rural areas.
Table 1: Poverty by Region, 1994 - 2000 (percentage of population)
Poverty Rate ('Io)       Extreme Poverty Rate (%)
1994     1997      2000      1994      1997      2000
Total                   53.4      50.7      54.1      19.0      14.7      14.8
Metropolitan Lima       42.4      35.5      45.2      5.5       2.4       4.7
Other Urban Areas       50.4      48.9      49.8      13.0      7.6       8.4
Rural Areas             65.5      64.8     66.1      36.2       31.9     30.1
Source: Instituto Cuanto. Encuesta Nacional de Niveles de Vida, 1994, 1997 y 2000
Poverty = insufficient income to purchase the equivalent of a food basket which would
meet energy and protein requirements and satisfy other basic non-food requirements
Extreme poverty = insufficient income to purchase only the equivalent of the food basket.
As rural poverty levels are very high, the social integration of Peru --with its emphasis on improved access
for the poor in remote areas to education, health, property rights, and infrastructure services, remains a
major priority. With macro-economic reforms and a poverty alleviation safety net in place, the
Govemment has been implementing sector reforms in the agriculture sector to increase productivity and
real incomes of the rural poor, while continues improving the quality and coverage of basic social and
infrastructure services in rural areas. Continued reduction of rural poverty rates is constrained by the
following rural transport sector issues:
Poor rural accessibility resulting from deficient rural transport infrastructure and services. The rural
poor in the Sierra have very limited mobility beyond their immediate settlements because of geographic
isolation, difficult mountainous terrain and high costs associated with improving transport infrastructure.
While these adverse conditions are natural barriers for rural development, to a great extent the lack of rural
accessibility stems from the deterioration of existing transport infrastructure, which results in extremely
low travel speeds and lack of year-round passability (access). The condition of the rural roads network in
the Sierra is negatively affected by the lack of adequate drainage systems and by poor maintenance
practices, which combines with climatic impacts to result in prolonged road closures and increased safety
hazards. Under these conditions, the level of motorized transport has remained low --only a few vehicles
venture to reach rural communities-- and the provision of transport services unreliable. Furthermore, for
most rural households income limits vehicle ownership to only the most affordable types of non motorized
vehicles. A large number of communities rely exclusively on non-motorized transport for travel outside of
their settlements, often through neglected and unsafe paths. In spite of the progress made in the last five
years to improve rural accessibility, the needs are yet staggering. Box I illustrates with an example how
- 4 -



the lack of rural accessibility affects from the real income and quality of life of the poor, to the delivery and
use of social services, to the participation in local product and labor markets, to social and political
engagement.
Box 1: "A hen for a bar of soap": confronting poor choices in Masisea
As part of project preparation, a series of consultation exercises were performed in five locations along the
Ucayali river, which links them with Pucallpa, the departrnent's capital. The message that came across in
Pucallpa -a fast growing economic center-- was clear: the Selva provides plenty of food and opportunities for
those willing to work the land. Masisca is a typical district several hours up the river where around 5,000
inhabitants live. Their testimonies pictured a very different situation. Unable to take their products to the market,
fanmers near Masisea face unequal trade terms, as far as trading a hen for a bar of soap (which in Pucallpa's
market are sold at S./15 and S./l .5 respectively). Just knowing that a veicle would pass at least every four days,
farmers said, would be enough to jump-start production to sell it the regional markets. Malnutrition is rampant,
aggravated by the lack of water and sanitation infrastructure and of diversification in the types of crops grown.
Because they all produce similar crops, it is also difficult for them to find a loal market fr their produce. Health
care is precarious, and although snake bites are frequent, health posts either lack the serum to reat them or they
have let the serun expire. Violence is increasing due to alcoholism and lack of income-eaming activities. The
district teacher stresses thc urgency of underscoring the value of work among residents, but complains that poor
access prevents the training of village educators in a new syllabus that emphasizes the connection between work,
lifestyle and social wetfare. With such accessibility constraints, it would be almost impossible to deploy good
health and education services. Improving living standards in Masisea will demand a programmatic effort to
tackle the chain of problems that keep its inhabitants in the deprivation trap. Meanwhile, the residents of Masisea
are left with poor choics only.
Four distinct cross-sectoral dynamics are related to the lack of basic rural accessibility, altogether
contributing to the poor living conditions of rural households:
(a) Poor access to social and government services, such as health, education, justice, policing, and
public registries (e.g. birth and marriage certificates). The relevance of transport services can be
better perceived when considering the distance or travel times to access those basic services. A recent
evaluation of a sample of rural households in the project area showed that the average distance to
primary schools was about 2.0 km, about 6.2 km to secondary schools, and much farther for technical
or tertiary education. Similarly, household dwellers in the sample had to travel on average about 8.0
km to access basic health care at the local post, and about 30.2 km if they needed to get to a hospital.
Poor accessibility has to do with the difficulties faced by the people that travel to the location where
the services are provided, but also with the difficulties faced by service providers to reach the rural
communities where the poorest and most vulnerable live. In this respect, good accessibility is vital to
retaining good service providers. This has been evidenced in the studies carried out to assess the
impact of the first three years of the program, where numerous testimonies report how the
improvement of rural infrastructure and services has increased the reliability of ambulatory health
services, the willingness of alfabetizadores to reach communities that were previously perceived as
too isolated. An exploratory study on gender issues has shown that the lack of reliable rural
transportation impacts poor women and children the most, since women cannot afford being away for
unpredictable periods of time as they have to look after their children and household needs.
(b) Poor articulation of rural households with markets . An inefficient transport system is a significant
constraint on agricultural efforts in the rural areas. The lack of a reliable transportation, reflected in
high transport and transaction costs, hampers the capacity of rural households to articulate with
markets and forces them to continue in a subsistence agriculture. Proximity to markets influences
effective prices of agriculture inputs and outputs. Purchases of modem inputs and sales of outputs
- 5 -



decline with distance from market, and transport costs influence farm profits through input use and
crop marketing decisions. A recent study performed by Grade, a Peruvian think-tank NGO, analyzed
the impact of transaction costs in the commercialization of potatoes --the dominant produce of the
Peruvian highlands between 2,500-3,500 m above sea level. The study estimated for the research area
that transaction costs amounted to about 50 percent of the sale price for producers connected to
markets through rural roads, and about 60 percent for producers connected through tracks for
non-motorized transport. The report concluded that the volume of sales in the research sample were
about 48 percent lower than what they could be due to these high transaction costs.
This poor articulation of rural households and markets is the result of two different impacts of
physical isolation: higher cost of transporting rural produce to regional markets, including lower
reliability of transport services; and higher transaction costs (i.e., obtaining information about market
needs and prices, negotiating contracts, and enforcing the terms of contracts). These two sets of cost
affect both small and medium size producers, and represent a severe constraint to the development of
rural areas. While the transport of goods to the market is an important component of the total cost of
most rural produce, in cases of extreme isolation the transaction costs associated to the development
of commercialization strategies can become so significant that practically prevent market transactions
from taking place at all. Asymmetries in the access to informnation and in the ability to enforce
contracts also often result in the counterintuitive observation that producers with higher travel costs
actually receive lower selling prices for their produce, while producers located closer to the markets
and with better and more reliable access roads produce more for sale and obtain higher prices. Poor
accessibility also slows down the diffusion of new technologies, increases marketing and production
costs. These variables related to commercialization strategies build on the mobility of people to
produce the necessary interactions among different agents.
(c) A perception of economic and social isolation. Many communities can only be reached by
non-motorized means of transport, as deep rivers and steep slopes become natural barriers to building
roads. Poor rural accessibility has resulted in social isolation, one of the major elements of the
deprivation trap that perpetuates rural poverty in Peru. Poverty and isolation are linked together
because when people are isolated, they are unable to harness the economic and social opportunities
within a wider geographic region. Consequently, isolated people can neither take advantage of
employment opportunities beyond their settlement --at least without disrupting their household
livelihood through forced seasonal or permanent migration-- nor expand their income generating
activities through interactions with other centers. Isolation slows down the diffusion of new
technologies and the technical assistance, which often are vital to the conversion of a local economy of
subsistence to more competitive ones that can expand local economic assets and generate sustained
development. This forced local self-sufficiency hinders local specialization and becomes another
barrier to economic development.
A sense of isolation is by far the most felt sentiment expressed by rural folks; as it was put by a
comunero in a participatory workshop held in Sihuas in 1996: "There is a terror that we fear even
more than terrorism: the sense of isolation, which suffocates us in our basic needs". The
non-motorized transport pilot component under the Rural Roads I project has been an effective way of
reaching the most isolated and poor by rehabilitating the informal network of paths used by these
communities. The evidence collected through the pilot is showing that this perception of isolation goes
beyond physical access constrains to encompass other multiple impacts derived from information
constraints (e.g., on market opportunities, availability of basic services), the lack of cash-generating
products, and even ancestral behaviors deeply rooted at the community level. By minimizing
commercial contacts with their neighbors and largely replicating each others subsistence economies,
- 6 -



highland communities will remain static and primitive.
(d) Reduced opportunities to develop income-earning activities. The concurrence of the factors noted
above has severely constrained the capacity of the rural poor to earn cash and develop
income-generating activities. Historically, people living in rural areas in the highlands have had little
opportunity to earn cash incomes and fully enter the market economy of the region and nation.
According to the base line survey performed in 2000, less than 20 percent of households' income
comes from wage-earning activities. This percentage sharply contrasts with the 45 to 50 percent
observed in similar villages once transport access has been improved.
The resulting under-consumption becomes another barrier to economic diversification, for an economy
in which the majority lives at subsistence level is by definition largely confined to the production of
subsistence goods. The lack of access to money is a major drawback. The poorest have a number of
constraints (fewer income sources, worse health and education) which prevent them from investing in
activities with higher return or with long gestation period for the returns to accrue. With little
development investment reaching village economies and ever-increasing money needs, it is no wonder
that since the 1 940s migration to urban areas has been a popular survival strategy. There is evidence
that given their limited ability to handle risk, poor rural households allocate their limited labor, land,
and capital in such a way as to avoid risk and income fluctuations. The road maintenance
micro-enterprise program carried out under the first phase has demonstrated that a constant stream of
income to its beneficiaries encourages riskier and higher yielding investments.
Weak institutional andfinancial basefor rural development. The broad national issue of administrative
decentralization to local governments has a major bearing on the solutions to sector issues. In Peru,
government decision-making and fiscal management is highly centralized and, as with other sectors of the
economy, the allocation of responsibilities to regional and local governments in the road sector is far from
settled. The weakness of local institutions for governance and program administration, especially in rural
communities, is both a symptom of underdevelopment and an impediment to social and economic growth.
In the road sector, the concurrence of responsibilities between the different levels of government is
hindering the development of institutional capacity in the municipalities. Currently, all three levels of
government (national, regional and municipal) have some authority to build and maintain rural roads, a
situation that generates confusion about which level owns the rural roads network and is therefore
responsible for its performance. The Municipal Organic Law of 1984 requires that municipalities (both
provincial and district) maintain the rural road network. Also, to the extent that they have the resources to
do it, municipalities have the authority to build rural roads. The Transport Law passed by Congress in late
1999 also extends such competencies to the Ministry of Transport (MTC). In addition, there is ongoing
debate in Peru about the establishment of the Regional Temporary Administrative Council (CTARs) as
regional governments that would, among other things, be responsible for the development and management
of road networks. While municipalities currently lack the institutional and financial capacity to efficiently
manage their rural roads networks, they are in a better position than the MTC to make decisions on the
quality of roads that users are willing to support and those that are being provided, since they are closer to
road users. Therefore, to efficiently manage the rural roads network, municipalities need to strengthen their
organization, develop skills and appropriate management tools, and increase the voice of users (the latter to
establish a constituency to whom become accountable).
In addition to institutional weakness, most rural municipalities lack the sources of funding needed to
assume real responsibility for road maintenance. On the aggregate, municipal revenues come mostly from
property taxes and cover only about 46% of their total expenditures. As shown in the table below, this
- 7 -



situation is even worse for small and rural municipalities, as legislation precludes the imposition of levies
on rural lands and property taxes on comunidades campesinas, thus limiting their revenue base to the
amounts generated by the alcabala tax (a tax on property transactions) and fees from transport services.
The resulting fiscal deficit is covered through intergovernmental transfers, mostly from the Fondo de
Compensaci6n Municipal (FCM), which has a bias against recurrent expenditures such as road
maintenance. Therefore, a sustainable financing mechanism is required to assist the municipalities while
ensuring an adequate level of local ownership over the network, since it is clear that the MTC is not in a
position to deliver quality maintenance throughout the entire road system (more than 70,000 kmn).
Table       - Financial CaDacitv of Municipalities
100D0 USS and percentages)
i  h..e   ..t                                                                                     Rural
TOTAL EXECUTED REVENUE
A. Communal Municipal Revenue                       1,920.9         44.2%          189.4          14.5%          190.8          20.3%           38.1         11.2%
a. Recurront Revenue                              1,903.3         43.8%           188,1         14 4%           190 8         20.3%           33.6           9.9%
Taxes                                          1,149.3         26A4%            64 5          4.9%           120 0         12,7%             7.1          2.1%
Non-taxes                                        408.4          9.4%            0g 9          El 93.          62 9          6.7%           13.0           3.8%
Fines and sanctions                              219.5          5.1%             5 7          0 4%             6A4          0.7 %            0.1          0.0%
Other                                            128.1          2.9%            2800          2 1 %            1 5          0.2 %           13 4          40%
b. Revenue from Investment                           17.6          0 4%             1.3          0 1%             0.0          0.0%             4 5          1.3%
B. Municipal Revenue fron  Trnacfres                2,340.5         53.9%          964.8          73.6%          r28.1          66.7%          265.4         7S.2%
a. For recurrent use                                519.3         11.9%           248.7         19.0%           216.1         23.0%           80.6         23.8%
Glass of Milk                                    179.2          4.1%             W0 °         e. 0%'         116 2         12.3%           38.9          11.5%
Funds from FCM                                   340.1          7.8%           162.3         12 4%            9908         10.6%           41.3          12.2%
O1her (e.g. 20% of customs)                        0.0          0.0%             0 4           0 o%            0 1          0.0%             0.4          0.1%
b. For lnvestment                                 1,921.5         41.9%           716.1         54.6%           412.0         43.a%          184.9          54.5%
Funds from FCM                                 1,775.9         40.9%           641 5         4B 9%           399. 3        42.4%          165.7         48.9%
Other transfers for lrvestment                    22.7          0.5%            73.0          5 69%           12 1           1.3%           17.9          5.3%
Other transfers                                   22.9          0.5%             1.6 s           13,           0 6           0.1%            1.2          0 4%
C. Financing                                            0.0          0.0%           92.0           1               89.1          9.5%           16.4          4.8%
D. Payments from Balance                               04.7          1.9%           64.4           4 9%           33.2           3.5%           19.3          5.7%
Total Municipal Revenue                        4,346.4        100.0%         1,310.6        i00.0%           941.2        1008.%          339.2        100.0%
TOTAL EXECUTED EXPENDITURES
A. Recurrent Expenditures                          2,301.8          50.0%          417.7          34.2%          462.8          46.9%           96.4         30.7%
a. Personnel                                   1,604.9         35.4%           213 8         17.5%           193. 2        19.6%           26.5           6.4%
b. Goods and Services                            649.2         14.3%           16f0 3        13. %           130.2         13.2%           56.9          18.1%
c. Other                                          47.7          1.1%            37 6          3.1%           139.2         14.1%            13.0          4.1%
B. Investments                                     2,062.6          46.0%          680.4          55.7%          443.0          44.9%          192.7         C1.3%
a. Investment Projects                         1,981.2         43.7%           565 2         4 6.2%          388.1         39.4%          152.2         48.4%
b. Other                                         101.4          2.2%           115.2          9A4%            54.9           5.6%          40.5          12.9%
C. Debt Service                                      144.0           3.2%          124.1          10.2%            80.2          8.1%           25.3          0.0%
Total Municipal Expenditures                   4,529.2        100.0%         1,222.2        100.0%           985.8        100.0%          314.4        100.0%
Source: 'Estudlo sobre la Capacidad Institucional Financiera de los Municipios p.rficipanles en el Prngrama de Caminos Rurales", Grupo Masimnle, March 1999,
based on 230 municipalities In the 12 participating departments. These include 73 proxinces, S depar,lrental capitals, 45 provincial capitals, 7 semi-urban districts,
and 173 rural districts.
Poor coordination and excessive reliance in central government for delivery of rural poverty alleviation
programs. Peru now has a decade of experience with a number of poverty alleviation programs focused on
rural areas. Recent reviews of this experience point to the need to improve coordination among programs
as a key factor to increase their effectiveness. The duplication and weak inter and intra-sectoral
coordination meant that important resources, knowledge and expertise were not being used to the best
advantage. Poor coordination not only reduces the impact of interventions by missing the opportunity to
benefit from synergies and economies of scale, but it also results in an excessive burden of transaction costs
and redundant activities for the beneficiary communities. FurthermoTe, long-term dependency on external
resources takes away the incentives to develop community-based mechanisms for self-reliance and may
-8 -



crowd out spaces for creative partnerships between community organizations and private sector
entrepreneurs. Targeting requires information at the municipal level, more inter-institutional coordination,
and clear consensus among providers and municipal governments about the nature of benefits and
beneficiaries. The evidence from fieldwork suggests that local leaders do know the gradient of poverty in
their communities. There is a need to empower local governments for an effective delivery of their
responsibilities, strengthening local organizations, developing institutional base for self-help initiatives, and
creating space for privately-led growth. The National Poverty Dialogue has opened new spaces for
enhancing coordination in this respect (see Section D.3).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Improving rural accessibility through rehabilitation of transport infrastructure. The project emphasizes
the connection of the benefited rural communities with a well-integrated and reliable road transport system
through rehabilitation and maintenance of a "core" road network composed of rural roads and connecting
primary and secondary roads. Several advantages are foreseen from this strategy. First, it will remove the
bottlenecks constraining transport services in rural areas, maximize the population benefited and, overall,
have a greater social and economic impact than in the case of isolated road improvements. Second, through
improved road access the project would permit easier coordination among other rural development
programs. Third, it introduces local governments to the principle of "network" management (including the
informal network of non-motorized tracks), which is key to improving transport services. It will take time
and substantial efforts in technical assistance for this principle to take root among local governments, since
this is a major change from the current practice where municipalities are mostly limited to occasional road
emergency works. Thus, while building an intense road investment program, the proposed project also
supports a strong institutional development component. The program will support MTC's policy to
emphasize rehabilitation and maintenance over new construction. The project will also provide safer access
to rural communities that depend exclusively on non-motorized tracks to meet their basic transport needs.
The second phase of the program will deepen the coverage in the same 12 departments (presently about 36
percent of the designated rural road network in those departments). This limited scope will strengthen the
project focus on building institutional and financial capacity in the current departments. In addition, the
project will also expand the Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) component, introduced as a pilot under the
first phase. The emphasis on rehabilitating and maintaining "networks" of rural and connecting roads
would continue to ensure poor communities are connected to economic centers.  In the selva region,
however, this connection is provided by river transport. The project would test how to improve the use of
intermodal access in the selva through a small pilot located along the Ucayali river, between Pucallpa and
Atalaya. The pilot would basically consist of building wharves, improving land facilities in small river
ports, and rehabilitating the network of non-motorized tracks that connect these ports with villages.
Integrating rural communities andproducers to markets and business opportunities. The design of
policies to promote a more successful integration to markets requires a better understanding of the
relationship between producers' articulation with markets and communities' access to human and social
assets (such as education, family size, community organizations and kin networks) and physical and
technological assets (land size, fertilizers/improved seeds, public services). Transport is a key element in
the formation and widening of markets. While the transport of goods to the market imposes a significant
cost, there are other variables related to commercialization strategies, which build on the mobility of people
and the resulting interactions among different agents when there is a reliable transportation system in place.
Building on a strategic partnership with civil society, govermment and development agencies, the project
will stimulate the creation of local business opportunities integrated with markets. To this end, the project
will combine the provision of technical assistance to conmiunity-based organizations, including road
-9-



committees and micro-enterprises that participate in the maintenance of rehabilitated rural roads and tracks,
with a communication and community organization strategy to facilitate the realization of productive gains
from the improvement of the rural roads network. This strategy seeks to develop more formal relationships
between rural producers and markets through improved access to information and organizational skills and
strategic partnerships.
Facilitating the empowerment of local organizations and vulnerable groups . Mobility brings
opportunities for enhancing people's capabilities and building the set of norms and networks that facilitate
collective action for mutual benefit, which is referred to as "social capital". Under the first phase of the
RRP, improved accessibility has facilitated people's--and predominantly women's--interactions outside
their homestead, and the acquisition of the skills, knowledge and confidence that such interactions bring
about.
The second phase will bring further enhancements to social capital by establishing a "local development
window" through a network of strategic partnerships with civil society, government and donor
organizations (see Annex 2 for detailed description). Also, the proposed project is designed to tackle some
of the dynamics that mediate the ability of project interventions to effect positive changes in many aspects
of women daily life, supporting the following measures to engender project activities and promote women
empowerment: (i) providing training on gender issues to PCR social staff, majors and community leaders
through the institutional development component. This on-going activity is expected to increase gender
awareness and develop critical skills to support interventions that will particularly improve women's access
to transport services, based on a better understanding of why women and men move around and whether
women and men use different types of transport or the road network differently; (ii) fostering
implementation arrangements that will gradually but effectively contribute to gender mainstreaming. For
example, women involvement in the Non-Motorized Rural Transport would be emphasized by identifying
ex-ante those activities where women participation should be targeted; (iii) supporting through the "Local
Development Window" specific programs and productive undertakings that would improve women access
to resources; and (iv) tracking gender impacts through the project social and impact monitoring system to
clarify what gender-differentiated project outcomes can be anticipated, and how different local realities
might affect women participation in project activities and benefits. While the project would not set
"quotas", women participation in micro-enterprises would be monitored to ensure that the application of the
methodology for selecting micro-enterprise members is not biased against women.
All in all, these enhancements offer a more integrated framework for facilitating the accumulation of
(income) assets, and through it, making possible community empowerment and social change. By
furthering access to other actors in the rural scene, the second phase should facilitate the distribution of
(income) assets and, through better participation in the broader social, political, and market institutional
network, enhanced control of the manner those assets and other resources are created or exchanged.
Strengthening theframeworkfor decentralization andfor rural road maintenance in particular. The
Rural Roads Program (RRP) supports a decentralization agenda through its focus on the development of
capabilities and institutions at local level and the transfer of resources to local governments. Given its
credibility before local level governments, the RRP becomes a suitable venue to further the decentralization
effort under a controlled but relentless exercise, whose pace can be aligned with government's progress in
the overall decentralization agenda and adjusted to local realities. The project is another step in preparing
local governments to manage, on a sustainable basis, the maintenance and upgrading of the rural road
infrastructure under their jurisdiction (the municipal responsibility over rural transport infrastructure has
been confirmed by the recently approved Transport Law). The project introduces local governments to key
principles for systemic management of their rural road networks (including the informal network of
- 10-



non-motorized tracks). Acknowledging that it will take time and substantial efforts for these principles to
take root among local governments (as well as for central government to devise an appropriate fiscal
decentralization scheme), the project supports: (i) a strong institutional strengthening component, with
specific targets regarding the use of more effective management structures and tools; (ii) further
deconcentration of project activities to PCR's field units (currently 10 units in operation) to explore
arrangements for delegating responsibility through performance agreements; (iii) a pilot on decentralized
management of provincial road networks, which will test the use of institutional and financial models,
information reporting systems and appropriate mechanisms for the flow of funds. The pilot will help to
build trust among provincial and district municipalities involved and establish evaluation and disclosure
practices, both intermediate but necessary goals for a sustainable decentralization; and (iv) a "graduation"
policy to encourage the transfer of direct responsibility to local governments, under which municipalities
that have assimilated the policies and practices supported by the project would become eligible for direct
execution of project activities in subsequent phases of the RRP. There is agreement that in the long run,
the role of PCR will shift from the current execution of work programs to monitoring performance and
provision of technical, institutional and financial assistance for programs carried out by a diverse number
of decentralized executing agencies, including regional entities and municipalities.
The project would continue supporting maintenance of those roads and tracks rehabilitated under the RRP.
Since rural roads and unclassified tracks fall under the jurisdiction of municipal governments and
communities, the project would gradually transfer to them more responsibility for rural roads maintenance.
The rural roads program requires that municipalities develop the institutional and financial capacity to
manage and finance, at least partially, the maintenance of the rural road network. This implies: (i)
clarifying responsibilities among different levels of government; (ii) strengthening the role of the province
as the focus for rural road network management and financing; (iii) strengthening municipal and central
government financial capacity through a co-financing system; (iv) strengthening road maintenance
management capacity at the municipal level; (v) involving users in road management at the provincial level;
and (vi) establishing performnance reporting and accountability systems.
The project would make operational a cofmancing mechanism for road maintenance under which
municipalities would contribute to defraying the cost of maintenance. The mechanism is based on: (i)
transfers from central government through budgetary allocations to PCRJMTC to cover about 50 to 60
percent of maintenance costs at the beginning and declining with time as more resources become available
at the local level; and (ii) contributions by municipalities from local revenue or from current
intergovernmental transfers allocated to the municipalities under the FCM to cover the remaining 40 to 50
percent. This represents a reasonable fiscal effort. The implementation of this mechanism in all the
provinces where the project is active will start in 2001 with the signing of new Participation Agreements,
which include the operational arrangements for the co-financing mechanism and the approval of the
respective budgetary allocations by the municipalities involved. Municipalities will start effectively
contributing to road maintenance by January 1, 2002.
- 11 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Table with project component description and cost.
Indicative             BanBk-     % of
ComponentX             0  :0000tS,ector   Ci?0a      % of    financing   Bank-
:US$M)    Total        (US$M)  financing
Rehabilitation of Rural Roads and  Rural Roads         61.70       40.9     26.20       52.4
Connecting Roads
Routine and Periodic Maintenance of    Rural Roads     51.80       34.3      13.89      27.8
Rural Roads and Connecting Roads
Improvement of Non-Motorized Rural   Rural Roads        5.65        3.7      2.40        4.8
Transport
Provincial Road Management Pilot    Rural Roads         2.95        2.0       1.18       2.4
River Transport Improvement Pilot   Rural Roads         5.30        3.5       2.20       4.4
Institutional Development:         Institutional        1.37        0.9      0.58        1.2
Improvement of Rural Transport    Development
Policy and Strategies:
* Improvement of Rural Road Planning  Institutional     3.71        2.5       1.57       3.1
and Management                     Development
* Development of community-based   Institutional        2.80        1.9       1.18       2.4
microenterprises for road maintenance   Development
* Strengthening local capacity to  Institutional        0.72        0.5      0.30        0.6
engage in social and economic       Development
development initiatives (Local
Development Window)
* Project Administration                               14.00        9.3      0.00        0.0
Total Project Costs                  150.00      99.3      49.50      99.0
Front-end fee                     1.00       0.7       0.50        1.0
Total Financing Required                   151.00      100.0      50.00     100.0
Note: Indicative costs for Front-end fee includes both the Banks front-end fee and IDB's supervision fee
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Transport Sector Policies. Key policies sought by the project include:
*   Improving rural accessibility to unlock economic development and reduce poverty in rural areas by
supporting transport improvements targeted to increase rural communities' access to basic social
services, economic activities and employment opportunities, with gender equity.
*   Increasing private sector participation in the rural road sector to increase efficiency in the delivery of
road programs, by: (i) contracting out rehabilitation works and engineering services to small firns;
and (ii) outsourcing maintenance activities to community-based organizations and micro-enterprises
under annual performance-based contracts; and
- 12 -



* Strengthening the framework for rural road maintenance to ensure that rural accessibility gains are
sustained through a properly maintained rural road system.
Social Development Policies. The project also aims at enhancing the articulation of social development
and coordination among poverty alleviation programs in rural areas, so as to optimize the impact of public
funds, minimize the burden on beneficiary communities, and increase Government's ability to put in place a
more holistic approach for local development. This entails:
*   empowering rural communities to define their development priorities and the interventions needed to
support their development plans;
*   increasing flexibility in the screening/approval/targeting of interventions under the various programs
and enhancing coordination during their execution;
*   strengthening local and community-based organizations to jump start development initiatives and
access employment and cash income generation activities; and
*   forming partnerships with the private sector and civil society organizations to open up spaces for forms
of privately-led growth that leverage the multiplier effect of public expenditure.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project's intended beneficiaries are divided into three groups. First, there is the population at large
benefiting from better access in rural areas. In particular this will benefit the poorest rural communities
located in the sierra region, since sub-project selection criteria give priority to these areas. The potential
number of beneficiaries is the 4.5 million rural population living in the 12 departments targeted under the
project. All in all, this represents about 70 percent of the rural population of Pelu and about 20 percent of
the total. Annex 11 presents a detailed profile of the project beneficiaries derived from the study carried
out in 2000 to assess the outcome of the first phase of the RRP. In these rural communities women
constitute a major beneficiary group for road and track improvements. They are the largest group involved
in taking products to the markets and improved road reliability should reduce their transport costs and
increase their income earning capacity. Better access to social services, such as hospitals and schools,
would offer greater proportionate benefit to women and children. The first phase of the program has also
demonstrated that there is considerable space for the involvement of women directly in road work activities.
Secondly, there are the small enterprises and community groups that are formed or strengthened as a result
of their involvement in the execution of the works financed by the project. This will improve the individual
skills of the workers who will be employed, and the corporate competitiveness of the small firms that will
carry out the works so as to develop their capacity to respond to increased opportunities for sustained
employment after project completion. Since most of the contractors have been working on a sporadic
informal basis, the project will contribute to helping them achieve a transition from the informal to the
formal sector. The project also benefits local consultants and NGOs that will be engaged in the preparation
of engineering designs, social diagnosis reports, and supervision of works, providing expanded
opportunities for their development under practices that provide the necessary motivation for quality and
efficiency. Access to opportunities will break the conundrum of "no work-no experience-no qualification".
In particular, the creation of road maintenance micro-enterprises has become the cornerstone of the project
success. Box 2 illustrates, through an example, the large social impacts of this program. Annex 11
describes the main achievements of the micro-enterprise so far, which go well beyond delivering
maintenance services. Micro-enterprises received under the project basic entrepreneurial and
organizational skills as well as access to a reliable cash-flow. This has empowered the micro-enterprises to
undertake productive projects and other local development initiatives beyond their maintenance contract
responsibilities, and at their own risk, with benefits that spill over to the communities where they are based.
- 13 -



Thirdly, there are the municipal governments to be strengthened under the project. The project targets
about 1 10 provincial municipalities and their respective district municipalities. They will be exposed to
institutional and financial arrangements for a more cost-effective management of their rural roads
networks.
Box 2: A day with "flai", a microenterprise for road maintenance
The micro-enterprise Comite Vial 'Illari' is responsible for maintaining a stretch of about 43 km. The gravel road serves the
villages of Talavera and Occobamba, and carries about 20 vehicles a day (from about 3 vehicles a day in 1995). Though it
was rehabilitated in 1995, the road remains in good condition due to the permanent work done by the micro-enterprise to keep
the draiae system working, fill potholes and improve the stability of lateral slopes. At the time of our visit, the
micro-enterprse had borrowed a small truck firom the muniipality and was building a retaining wall, Its president was so
proud of the quality of the work, that during the visit almost fored us to stop at, and inspect each retaining wall built by the
nicro-enterprise as part of the maintenance contat (at the beginning of the contract, however, the micro-enterprise was
required to rebuild the fist retaining wall because it failed to comply with quality standards).
The micro-enterpise consists of 16 members who desigate their president and determine how the monthly payment (about
US$100 equivalent per km including VAT) is assigned4; basially, about 80%o of net payments is devoted to daily wages and
the remaining 20%/o is allocated to various uses, including an investnent fund (about 7%K), an aid reserve fund (about 5%11), and
reserves for acquisition of tools (3%), travel expendWitures (about 3%) and miscellaneous expenditures (2P%). The
micro-enterprise operates a saving account in Banco de CridUto and owns a small place where members receive on-the-job
training from two "monitors' (an engineer and an accountant) and keep their books and accounting records.
From the dialogue with the micro-enterprise staff, it came clear the empathy between members and the two monitors
appointed by PCR to coach the microenterprise, the dynamism and teamn spirit of the members, the positive leadership of the
president who contributes to the work, and the aspirations to further their training. Their code of honor is based on the Inca
rule Ama Lulla, Ama Quelua, Ama Sua: (don't be a liar, don't be lazy, don't be a staler). With the monitors they are learning
how to perform as entrepreneurs. "After many years not using our skills, our brains were dormant" said one of the members,
"so it takes some time until we can assimilat the training'. They named the micro-enterprise 'Uleri which in quechua
means awakening. Though still too early, they ar beginning to dram about new productive endeavors for their
nicro-enxprise (they are planning to buy a vehicle to transport people in the near future).
Source: Supervision MissionReport, November 1997.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Set-up. The proposed project will continue relying on the successful arrangements used during the
first phase of the RRP. MTC will have overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation.
Actual implementation will be delegated to a specialized unit, the Proyecto Especial de Rehabilitaci6n del
Transporte -Programa de Caminos Rurales (PCR), which was created in July 1995 by Ministerial decree.
With staff and budget separated from the rest of the Ministry, the unit enjoys ample technical,
administrative and financial autonomy. Its limited personnel is engaged at private-sector salaries and paid
from local counterpart funds. Most of the tasks are undertaken by consultants engaged under the project.
The unit is led by an Executive Director who reports directly to the Vice-Minister of Transport.
Implementing the project within the proposed time frame demands strong skills to manage hundreds of road
links and contracts spread over difficult remote rural areas. PCR will delegate more day-to-day
responsibility on its 10 field offices. Due to the special nature of the statutes of PCR, its duration is in
principle limited to the execution of the proposed project. At the third annual review, Government jointly
with IDB and the Bank will review the need to continue with PCR after project completion, taking account
of the progress made in the decentralization agenda. MEF and MTC have agreed that in the long run the
role of PCR will shift from execution to monitoring and provision of technical, institutional and financial
assistance for programs carried out by a diverse number of executing agencies, including regional entities
and municipalities.
- 14 -



Project set-up                                          Cooperation Agreements for
in a snapshot                                 1]        Poverty Reduction Strategy
in a snapshot                               i~~~~~~~~~(roanachs, Foncodes, mnade,
Flow of Funds: Treasury - IDB - IBRD                      Prvate SectoriCivil Society)
technical assistance & rehabilitation wor
l Collaboration Ageementrem                           Road Rehabilitation
Road     Province + its districts   j           Performance Audits   100 %
maintenance                                      Contracts
50%I
I0%         Technical Assistance  I
I      Annual Work Program   Consultants: pre-
35%_                                       invest./supervision
FidAiag ry     _                                Local Contractors
Arrang.y                Transport Mast rPlan   Work execution
iPCR;s monitors 
-*District supervision 
Workshops       Community-based
_------ -.-  ~ >Micro-enterprises
road maintenance 
Communities involved in project selecon, work
execution (labor) and maintenance (micro-enterprises)
Local NGOs
L80% NMT          | 20Y NMT (in labor) |         odCmmite
[Z              ...... - .... Road Committees
The project operational set-up would have a three-layer organization that would attempt to efficiently
achieve an adequate monitoring of project execution, the decentralization of responsibilities, and the
participation of municipalities and communities, as follows:
(a)   PCR's central unit in Lima would be responsible for general project management. This would entail:
(i) establishing indicative budgetary allocations and investment programs; (ii) entering into
inter-administrative "Participation Agreements" with provincial municipalities with jurisdiction over
the project areas (see Box 3); (iii) coordinating interventions with other central government agencies
as well as civil society representatives involved in rural development programs through Participation
Agreements and recurrent consultations; (iv) designing and coordinating the institutional
strengthening component; (v) issuing implementation guidelines (through the Operational Manual and
further reviews of it); (vi) carrying out procurement of consultant services and contracts for civil
works; (vii) allocating funds to the fiduciary arrangements set under the maintenance co-financing
mechanism; (viii) upkeeping the project impact monitoring system; (ix) auditing performance of its
deconcentrated zonal units; and (x) preparing PMR reports and processing disbursement requests.
(b)   The deconcentrated zonal units of PCR (Unidades Zonales, UZ), located in the project areas (almost
one per department or region participating in the project), would be responsible for managing the
work programs. This would entail: (i) promoting the project among, and entering into agreements (
convenios) with municipalities and communities; (ii) coordinating their rural development and
poverty alleviation programs with other decentralized agencies and NGOs established in the area;
(iii) defining and programming investments in consultation with the municipalities; (iv) procuring
small contracts; and (v) monitoring and reporting implementation of the various project components.
(c)   Municipalities and communities at the local level. Though the project funds would not be channeled
to the municipalities, they would participate in: (i) agreeing between provincial and district
municipalities on the priorities of the road subprojects identified by the communities, and signing the
respective Participation Agreements with PCR; (ii) contributing to the cost of maintenance through
the co-financing mechanism; (iii) undertaking the institutional action programs agreed under the
- 15 -



project, including preparing transport plans, road inventories and exchanging information on the
performance of the rural road system; (iv) overseeing the delivery of programs, including approving
maintenance works and payments and reporting to PCR any difficulties in the implementation of the
project; and (v) joining PCR in monitoring and evaluating project impacts.
Rural communities in the targeted districts would be directly involved in: (i) identifying road subprojects
and recommending solutions for improving transport services along the rural road network as well as the
unclassified network of NMT tracks; (ii) contributing to the cost of the works for community-managed
components, forming Comites Viales Rurales to undertake the improvement of NMT tracks and maintain
them thereafter; (iii) undertaking at their own initiative and risk local development initiatives identified with
project assistance; and (iv) joining PCR in monitoring and evaluating project impacts.
Box 3: Key ftures oftpatin  greements
The Project Operational Manual i dcl    a standard "Collaboration Agremet" to be used during project
implementation. Key features of the tan ar emet are:
*f    Legal Aspects. The agr       is between MTC (repesented thrugh PCR) and the provincial
inunicipality, but all district municipaties within the prvince must also sign in to enhance coordination among
districts and between districts and their provincial munipalities. Responsibility for administering contacts and
managng project activities is vested in PCR. The authority of Municipalities to manage rural roads and to
promote construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads is reaffirmed
*      Coordination. Coordination between municipalities and PCR is manaory for selecting roads,
identifying and evaluating subprojpet and carryig out studies and works related to these sub-projects.
Municipalities may also partt  in the executionof project works provided they comply with the requirements
and procedures set forth in the Project p*erational Manual.
*      Commitments undetaken by Municlites- Municipalities are required to: (i) enter into the
institutional strengthening program and ca  out the action pla  drawn up together with PCR; (ii) suport
development of micro-enterprises and  In maintenance committees for road maintenance; (Wi) set
up with district municaities theuaym  required under the  oect to support the flow of finds
for road maintenance, and (iv) ma  budations and   as*the fiinds to maintain roads rehabilitated
under the project on a timefly bsisiii fm y   2   a
*     Commitmeuts undertaken by          isr     to: (i)eep micpaes   y informed of all
project activities; (i provide tial assitutatngthening inr                 road management; (iii)
cvaluate together with municipali;ties th      ac                                        to
allow municipalities continue fudingi  cez of the r  ebili     u     the prOJCt and channl
central goverrnent contributions as                      meuired uo-fnancn  mhis.
Project Monitoring. The monitoring of project implementation encompasses two levels. One consists of
the reviews of project performance and annual plans that will be undertaken by PCR on a continuous basis;
the other consists of periodic performance audits, participatory evaluation exercises and imnpact assessment
studies that would be carried out by independent finns and specialized NGOs. The application of the
project information and monitoring system would allow PCR, IDB and the Bank to ascertain the progress
in the implementation of each sub-project and the degree of achievement of the project development
objectives. Every six months, auditors acceptable to IDB and the Bank will conduct a performance audit of
the implementation of the project by examining a samnple of sub-projects under execution by the regional
offices. The audits will focus on the execution of the project physical components (quality and cost of
works), procurement procedures, and compliance with the guidelines of the Project Operational Manual
and the performance indicators agreed between PCR and each UZ. Through the audit, cost comparisons
will be made available and reviewed to identify procurement problems or other factors contributing to
variations among the different regions; the scope of the sample of work sites included in the audit will be
adjusted according to these findings.
- 16 -



Reporting. PCR will prepare quarterly progress reports for all components of the project, which will be
sent to IDB and the Bank within one month after the end of each quarter. The reports will describe: (i)
progress achieved during the previous quarter in the implementation and in the achievement of the
objectives of the project based on the performance indicators; (ii) an assessment of the problems and issues
derived from the implementation of the project; (iii) information on procurement processes and contract
awards completed during the quarter; and (iv) updated implementation and disbursement schedules for the
following quarter; and (v) status of compliance with the legal covenants contained in the Loan Agreement.
The reports will provide timely and updated information on project implernentation, highlighting issues and
problem areas, recommending actions and commenting on progress in executing previous
recommendations.
Alnnual Reviews. Each year, the Bank, IDB and the Government will conduct a formal joint review to
assess: (i) progress in project implementation and achievement of the project objectives on the basis of
agreed performnance indicators and targets; (ii) the performance of PCR and each of its field units; (iii) the
effectiveness of the work programs in terms of community and local government involvement, local
contractors response, coordination with other development programs, and achievement of project
objectives; (iv) progress in implementing the institutional development components, including compliance
of participating municipalities with the Institutional Action Programs; (v) the adequacy of the procedures
stated in the Project Operational Manual; (vi) progress in restructuring and strengthening road maintenance
administration and finance; and (vii) the justification of the investment and institutional proposals for
implementation during the subsequent year. The project implementation schedule and monitoring
indicators will be updated during the annual review. In the event of unsatisfactory progress, Government
will prepare remedial action plans satisfactory to IDB and the Bank within two months of the review.
Participants will include key representatives from MTC, MEF, PCR and its UZs, NGOs involved in project
activities, decentralized agencies involved in rural development programs, and when appropriate, groups of
beneficiaries.
Mid-Term Review. The annual review scheduled for 2003 will constitute a Mid-Term Review of the RRP,
an opportunity for a more comprehensive assessment of the achievements of the project at that date and for
a policy discussion on the future of the program. Prior to this review, PCR will conduct an evaluation of
the economic, social and environmental impact of the project in a sample of communities along the roads
rehabilitated by the RRP and a "control" sample of communities along roads located in the project area but
not benefited from the program. In addition to covering the topics listed above, this review will examine
the progress made by Government with regard to: (i) its agenda for administrative decentralization and the
need to adjust the operational set up of the project and of the RRP accordingly; (ii) the establishment of a
strategy for rural roads funding; (iii) the improvement of inter-agency coordination; and (iv) evaluation of
the two pilots on Provincial Road Management and River Transport Improvement and the participation of
municipalities in project activities, including the possibility that certain municipalities became direct
executing agencies under PCR monitoring in subsequent phases of the program. The review will consider
proposals for restructuring or reorienting the program, taking account of all relevant sector and project
issues.
Project Supervision. Building on the experience gained during implementation of the first phase, IDB and
the Bank will supervise the project through a shared project team. The respective task managers will
coordinate the timing and composition of field missions. Their frequency will be guided by the progress
and special requirements of project implementation. The missions are expected to supervise the project
twice a year. However, the supervision plan calls for a greater involvement of the respective offices in
Lima. The local offices will play an active role in: (i) reviewing sub-project eligibility and procurement;
(ii) monitoring the monthly update of the project information system; (iii) visiting work sites and
- 17 -



municipalities involved in the technical assistance program; and (iv) providing follow-up and
problem-resolution support.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project is the second phase of a program designed to improve the physical condition and
institutional oversight of rural roads. Due to the general success of the first phase, a wholesale revision of
the general framework is largely unnecessary. Moreover, the existing project structure has overwhelmingly
strong support from the national government as well as strong demand from the provincial and municipal
and provincial levels. Nonetheless, the following alternatives --related to project scope, Bank support and
screening of road subprojects-- were considered and rejected:
Project Scope. Integrated Rural Development Project. Basic infrastructure, such as water, sanitation,
roads, is critical to creating a stable environment for human survival and growth. Recent Bank research on
Peru's poverty reduction experience suggests that bundling basic services like water, electricity or
sanitation might have a positive effect in reducing poverty.  Similarly, the "Consultations with the Poor"
have also demonstrated the holism of life and living. An effective poverty reduction strategy cannot be
built on improvements in one sector alone, no matter what sector that is. Since rural comn-munities face
multiple needs, it can be argued that an integrated development project may help in clarifying their options
and priorities, and in putting in place a more holistic approach for local development. Integrated
development project appear to offer great potential for enhancing coordination in selecting and
implementing interventions in various sectors in a given area, and for economies of scale and cost savings
when infrastructure interventions are coordinated across sectors. However, Bank experience in integrated
rural development projects is less than satisfactory, due mainly to the increased complexity of
implementation arrangements across sectors, technical and sustainability difficulties when the respective
government agencies responsible for the sectors are bypassed, or the limited access to qualified human
resources when the local institutions who are supposed to undertake the initiatives are weak.f The issue is
whether a holistic, participatory strategy for poverty alleviation, followed by a combination of sector
interventions specifically designed to support it, could achieve the advantages, and offset the disadvantages
of an integrated development project.
Although the proposed project is conceived as a transport intervention, several features in its design aim at
supporting a holistic response to local needs, namely: (i) its flexibility in screening, approving and
targeting project interventions, which starts with local participatory processes to identify local needs and
support the road component of local development programs; (ii) its strong focus on "municipal
participatory planning" implicit in the methodologies applied under the institutional building program,
which creates opportunities for coordinated responses across sectors; (iii) its reliance on regional field
offices, which being closer to the municipalities, have clearly perceived the need and the opportunities
missed by not coordinating rural development programs carried out in both public and private domains; and
(iv) its emphasis in empowering rural communities and local governments to undertake new initiatives that
building on transport improvements pursue benefits in other sectors.
Project Scope: Extended Geographic Coverage. At project identification, the teams considered the
possibility of expanding the project area to other departments beyond the twelve selected for the RRP, in
view of the high demand expressed by poor municipalities across the country. PCR has already
demonstrated capacity to implement a larger program, and it would only need to establish some additional
field units to manage an expansion of the geographic coverage of the program. However, the expansion
- 18-



would imply increasing the size of the investment program to around US$280 million (with WB and IDB
loans of $90 million each) over the same implementation period to allow an increase in the number of
participating provinces once the program is opened to other departments. This option was rejected for
various reasons: (i) excessive pressure on government counterpartfunds. With the deterioration of the
fiscal position, the program would require budgetary commitments higher than the levels planned by MTC
and MEF. Also, the financing plan calls for prudence, as the planned reduction of central government
contributions builds on the ability of PCR to effectively mobilize from years 2002 and on municipal
contributions to cofmance maintenance; (ii) increased complexity of co-financing arrangements.
Expanding the geographic coverage would imply dealing with a larger number of municipalities, with
different degrees of exposure to the program and a broader range of income levels and municipal financial
capacity. This would add more uncertainty to the development and implementation of the co-financing
system, increasing the risk of non-compliance especially by new municipalities where the benefits of the
program have yet to be demonstrated; and (iii) increased competitionfor program resources. In the
second phase, PCR has to focus on the challenging task of building institutional capacity at the local level
to strengthen the long term sustainability of the rehabilitated rural road network. However, a demanding
investmnent program could in turn weaken the project's support to institutional development in two ways.
Firstly, it would increase the risk that PCR shifts its attention away from the institutional program if
overwhelmed by the day-to-day management of an ambitious work program. Secondly, it would spread the
investment program too thin among many competing provinces if the expansion to new departments is done
under tight budgetary constraints, which in tum would reduce some of the project incentives for
municipalities to participate in the institutional program.
Project Scope: Extended Coverage of the Financiai Mechanism for Rural Road Maintenance. The design
proposed for the MCM addresses the needs of poor rural municipalities, where PCR is active and the
project direct intervention are justified for equity/poverty reasons. Thus, its coverage and level of funding
needs are linked to the progress made in rehabilitating the rural road network under the RRP (presently
about 10,000 km). While the same principles could have been applied to expanding the coverage of the
MCM to the entire rural road system (more than 40,000 kIn), this alternative would require deeper refornns
to address some additional difficulties stenuning from: (i) the differences in financial capacity among
municipalities outside the PCR area of intervention, which would require a thorough analysis of local
capacity to group the municipalities according to their ability to contribute to maintenance; (ii) the large
size of the rural roads network and its present condition, with many road sections not maintainable (lack of
drainage systems, need to clear the rehabilitation backlog before the roads can be efficiently maintained).
This would not only increase the size of central government transfers but add uncertainty to the appropriate
levels of funding, which in turn could jeopardize the sustainability of the mechanism; and (iii) the lack of
appropriate institutional arrangements outside PCR to deliver an effective maintenance program. MTC
could easily meet a minimum funding requirement for rural road maintenance with its current allocation to
DGC (the Directorate of Roads), but DGC's interventions lack the long-term impact (due to inappropriate
standards and lack of continuity in maintenance) to spur rural development.
To develop a truly sustainable financing scheme for the entire rural road sector, the level of funding made
available to municipalities for rural roads maintenance would have to be linked to a secure source, such as
a percentage of the road user charges collected by central government. A proposal to create a Road Fund
was eliminated from the Transport Law approved by Congress in 1999). Also, additional reforms would
be needed to empower municipalities to raise more funds locally, and balance responsibilities with
financing resources for an array of local expenditures --well beyond the road sector. The study on
decentralization in Peru would need to address these broader issues and build consensus to move ahead on
the agenda for decentralization.
- 19-



Bank Support: Use of an Adaptable Program Lending. At the time of preparing the (first) Rural Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan. 3962-PE) in 1995, the APL modality did not exist. The
project was the first attempt of the Peruvian authorities to intervene in the rural roads sector in a systematic
manner, and there were important issues about the strategy for working at the local level, which would
require some testing and experimentation before casting them in a long-term policy document. These
features of the program --combined with the long-term efforts required to address both the large road
rehabilitation backlog and the institutional strengthening of provincial and district municipalities-- could
favor the use of an APL. The RRP was split into two phases with shorter implementation periods and
specific outputs to be achieved in each phase, including the design of an institutional and financial
mechanism for rural roads maintenance as the trigger to move into a second phase. This approach, with its
reminiscences of an APL, has worked well, giving the right incentives for PCR to focus on institutional and
financial measures, while retaining flexibility to accommodate them to the progress made by the
government in its decentralization agenda. The possibility of adopting an APL modality for the second
phase was discussed but discarded because presently GOP is not in a position to commit to a long-term
policy agenda with regard to fiscal decentralization, and the slow progress made in this field makes it
difficult to map the triggers that would jump-start subsequent follow-on phases. Thus, MEF is lukewarm
regarding an APL but favors the phased approach adopted for the RRP, where each phase of the program
mimics some of the features of an APL (a clear long-term objective with a broad strategy to achieve it and
agreed steps to trigger subsequent phases) while allowing for greater fine-tuning of the investment and
policy agenda at each succeeding step, and can be processed in due time to ensure the continuity of the
program.
Screening Project Investments: Top-down Approach. In Peri, with two thirds of the rural population
being poor or extremely poor, investments in rural roads have a strong social policy purpose. To ensure
that the project investments are cost effective and spur the desired social and economic yields, road
subprojects must meet certain criteria which usually encompass a combination of parameters (typically
ranging from social and poverty indicators, to agricultural-production feasibility, to other non-quantified
benefits such as increased access to health and education services, accident reduction, and irnproved
institutional capacities at the local level). Basically, there are to possible alternatives for identifying
candidate road subprojects. Under a top down approach PCR would identify and select those road
subprojects that rank highest after assessing the respective parameters for all targeted communities. In
spite of its potential to maximize outputs, the problem with such an approach is that it might not capture
local priorities and development needs as perceived by the commnunities the project intends to benefit. This
would undernine local ownership and in tum weaken the sustainability and side-benefits of the RRP
investments (which can be central in poverty targeted intervention). Alternatively, under a bottom up
approach, road subprojects are identified through participatory workshops at the community level with the
involvement of local authorities. The decision to adopt a bottom up approach was made during preparation
of the on-going project. The methodology used for consultations with the communities has proven to be
cost-effective, and the workshops and dialogue maintained has served to not only identify project
interventions with a long-term development perspective and sound technical rationale but also achieve other
institutional and community objectives besides the formulation of investment proposals.
"Poverty and Social Developments in Peru, 1994-1997", World Bank, May 1997. The report shows how access to one service
has raised families' welfare but access to three basic services has raised families' welfare more than three times, suggesting
the potential positive effect of bundling interventions.
Given the highly centralized nature of the Peruvian government, such coordination would need to start at the top and
continue down the various bureaucratic apparatus until it reached the communities. The tools and mechanisms for this type
of coordination are simply not yet in place.
- 20 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
_Bank-financed pr-i ts only)
Implemenlation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Road rehabilitation and capacity  Transport Rehabilitation           S             S
building (completed)              Project (3717-PE)
Road rehabilitation and capacity bui   Rural Roads Rehabilitation and  S           S
building (completed)              Maint. Project (3962-PE)
Poverty alleviation and promotion of   Second Social Development &   S             S
self-reliant community organizations   Compensation Fund (4068-PE)
Alleviate the poverty of the rural Sierra Sierra-Natural Resources   S             S
people (on-going)                  Management and Poverty
Alleviation Project (4130-PE)
Social Reform and protection of key    Programmatic Social Reform
social programs (planned)         Loan
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank    National Program of Rural
Transport Infrastructure
Inter-American Development Bank    Social Development and
Compensation Fund III
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Review of Bank Experience on Rural Roads Projects. Since 1975 the Bank has invested more than US$2
billion through a large number of operations involving rural roads." The principal problems in achieving
sustainable results have been: institutional weaknesses and inadequate coordination, leading to delays in
implementation and incomplete execution of the works; inadequate monitoring of results; weak
sustainability, as the necessary institutional and financial frameworks are rarely addressed. Bank-wide
experience resulted in the following advice for the design of the RRP: (i) there should be a strong
government comnmitment and beneficiary participation in defining priorities and funding for maintenance to
ensure the sustainability of services and infrastructure; (ii) a central focal point should be established for
formulating and reviewing rural roads policy, for project planning and execution, and for coordination
between the ministries of agriculture, interior and transport; (iii) a strong and dedicated project
management team should be created to assure timely implementation and adequate monitoring of the
project; (iv) the capacity for labor-based methods and intermediate means of transport should be developed;
(v) the methodology to screen road subprojects should be agreed with the borrower and based on sound
economic analysis (including social benefits estimation and cost-effectiveness approach for basic access);
and (vi) a system to monitor the benefits of road subprojects during and after implementation of the project
should be established early in the implementation period.
Recent Bank sector work has analyzed the links between poverty and transport and how transport
operations can contribute to poverty reduction supporting either directly or indirectly approaches.' The
- 21 -



following conclusions are particularly relevant for the RRP: (i) the process of poverty reduction is
embedded in a broad range of socio-economic activities to which transport services provide intermediate
inputs. Transport alone cannot reduce poverty, though it serves a crucial complementary role (it plays a
leading role in economic growth at early stages of development, as transport investments stimulate
economic growth through market widening effect). Consequently, more systematic integration of transport
components with other sectoral interventions (for example, in education and health) is necessary so as to
strengthen poverty reduction strategies; (ii) transport needs of the very poor should be recognized. Income
is a key detenninant of individual travel behavior. The very poor often are not able to afford the cost of
using "for payment" transport services. Their main transport mode is walking. They spend a great time
and a substantial amnount of personal energy on travel, but cover comparatively short distances. In rural
areas, a better understanding of NMT services is critical to making the most of opportunities to incorporate
project components that directly assist the very poor; (iii) mechanisms for the poor to voice their transport
needs are typically weak and should be improved, especially at the local level. Approaches include
surveying existing problems and needs, establishing explicit participation in collaboration or partnership
with NGOs, and enabling expression through open markets; and (iv) labor-intensive methods in road work,
where relatively low wages make them cost-effective, provide a sustainable source of suplementary
employment for the poor, especially in rural communities.
Lessons from consultations with the poor. In view of the strong poverty focus of the RRP, the findings of
the broad-based consultations with the poor recently performed by the Bank are also worth examining for
project design. LAC country reports on the Voices of the Poor put great emphasis on problems of
employment; both unemployment and the variability of employment and wages are seen as problems.
Another key problem is the deficiencies in infrastructure: lack of water, sanitation, electricity, street lights
and roads. In rural areas, the problems are more linked to problems of low productivity such as lack of
access to credit, markets (roads), irrigation, and land; lack of skills is a problem, but not the lack of basic
education. In contrast with the World Development Report strategy, the poor do not place such a high
value (as the Bank does) on health and education. The emphasis on employment also reflects the fact that
growth has been disappointing, and not particularly labor-intensive in the kinds of unskilled labor possessed
by the poor. There is a need for much more attention to basic infrastructure, both in urban areas (water,
sanitation) and rural areas (roads).
Similarly, the Bank is presently reviewing with the Government of Peru ways of improving efficiency and
equity in social spending which will ultimately benefit the poor. To enhance the quality and sustainability
of the recommendations, a series of consultations have been conducted under Peru's National Poverty Fora.
The lessons leamed from these consultations include: (i) poverty is multi-faceted, thus the need for
coordination around problems rather than sectors. The strategies proposed by participants emphasized the
need for multi-sectoral strategies to address complex and intertwined problems. Problems that require a
multi-sectoral approach include alcoholism, domestic violence; (ii) strategies must be adapted to regional
realities. The differences and disparities between the regions of Peru are great, so centralized strategies
will undoubtedly fail in a country with such diversity; and (iii) more efficient and effective social services
can improve well-being only partially. Equally important are income eaming opportunities and democratic
and transparent decision making at all levels. Participants in Cusco emphasized the need to provide
incentives for and promote development of productive projects, and decrease the number of assistential
programs in favor of productive ones.
Lessons from the implementation of the first phase. The evidence gathered through the implementation of
the first phase of the RRP has generally confirmed the validity of the principles and strategies underlying
its design. In particular, the following lessons are relevant for enhancing the sustainability of the second
- 22 -



phase: (i) beneficiary participation invigorates project sustainability in many ways, even through the
implicit risk associated with stakeholder participation (a dimension that rather than ignored should be
nurtured). In the highlands of Peru, a history of unfulfilled promises, poor results (with the benefits of
government interventions vanished soon after due to lack of maintenance), bad advice and a host of similar
problems, has led to cynicism on the part of many communities. PCR has realized that perhaps its main
asset is the credibility it has gained before the communities by delivering the commitments taken on during
the participatory processes and not compromising on the quality and standards of its interventions; (ii) the
fragile dynamics of local development call for close monitoring of benefits distribution effects. For
example, the micro-enterprise program has gained the acceptance of communities and government officials.
However, no matter how deeply rooted in the community, this support might decline in time if communities
perceive they are not participating in the economic benefits the program is bringing to micro-enterprise
members. This underscores the importance of complementary local development initiatives that directly
benefit the communities where they are located, and an exit strategy that opens opportunities to other
members of the community once the micro-enterprise (or its members) become strong enough to continue
on their own without direct project support; (iii) side social benefits, when clearly demonstrated and
appreciated by the parties, become powerful engines in the drive for sustainability. In the dialogue for the
design of a financial mechanism for rural road maintenance, government officials placed as much (perhaps
more) value on the social benefits derived from the continuity of the micro-enterprise program than on the
benefits of road maintenance itself; and (iv) the improvement of Non-Motorized Transport tracks and trails
has become one of the most strategic interventions of the project to alleviate rural poverty, as it enabled the
project to reach the most vulnerable.
According to an OED review of rural transport operations, the Bank funded around 66 operations dealing with rural roads.
Half the Bank's rural roads operations are stand-alone projects. Others are project components under Roads, Transport,
Rural Infrastructure, Irrigation and Agriculture and Rural Development Projects. The outcome has been mixed, especially
for agriculture or integrated development projects. In this respect, the OED review favors sector projects designed within a
holistic strategy for rural development ("Think centrally but act sectorally") .
Colin Gannon and Zhi Liu (TWUTD). "Poverty and Transport", September 1997. Indirect approaches involve increasing the
efficiency of resource allocation, especially the performance of markets, the flexibility of adjustments and the fostering of
economic growth. Direct approaches are concerned with enhancing human capital formation, especially education and
health, and improving access to economic and social opportunities, including labor and product markets, schools, and clinics.
Typically, indirect approaches operate at the level of improving overall mobility, while direct approaches operate at the level
of improving basic access for the poor.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower commitment. MTC and MEF have both shown strong commitment to the RRP and its
development goals. Encouraged by early positive results, PCR's ownership of the project has increased
steadily during the implementation of the first phase of the program and remains steadfast for the second
phase. The following are clear indications of borrower commitment and ownership of the project:
(a) a satisfactory record in implementing the on-going project and realizing its development goals. PCR
has surpassed the investment targets agreed upon at appraisal for the first phase of the program and
fulfilled several critical institutional strengthening indicators, such as micro-enterprise development.
The project would have been completed on schedule except for the recent budgetary cutbacks (i.e., lack
of budgetary authority to spend). Throughout project implementation PCR maintained a receptive
attitude to learn by doing and incorporating feedback from implementation. It has continuously sought
a more comprehensive response to rural poverty and community development issues, to an extent that
is unusual in a "hard" sector project.;
(b) the endorsement of key (and sometimes sensitive) principles which lie beneath the project design. Four
- 23 -



features of the project -namely, the participatory approach in subproject generation, the use of
micro-enterprises for road maintenance, the extensive involvement of NGOs, and the inclusion of a
pilot for non-motorized transport- were indeed innovations for the road sector in Peru and MTC either
had doubts about their relevance or perceived their implementation implied risks for central
government. Nevertheless, both MTC and PCR embraced them, to the extent these principles are not
under scrutiny for the design of the follow-on phase; and
(c) the high visibility of the program at top levels of Government and their strong interest in ensuring the
continuity of the program. The program received significant attention at the highest levels of
govermment, who followed with interest its implementation and made positive reviews of its outcome.
Although the maintenance program represents a heavy financial burden for MTC, GOP has renewed its
commitment to moving into the second phase of the RRP, and requested both IDB and the Bank to
accelerate its processing to ensure no breakdown in the financing of ongoing activities, especially of the
micro-enterprises. In preparation for this second phase, PCR is acting to strengthen economic
planning, environmental management, and institutional strengthening functions, and to delegate
management responsibilities to its field offices. In particular, the Borrower has established the Office of
Planning and the Office of Investments --Transport (OPLA-ODI) to examine and review sustainable
mechanisms for financing rural road maintenance over the medium-term.
Local Government Interest in the Project. The proposed project has been well received at the local levels
of government. Majors have overwhelmed PCR with requests for road improvements, even those of
provinces not included in the first stage. The first project has also attracted strong interest frorn community
groups and local populations in the affected areas. These groups have actively participated in the selection
of subproject works and the development of micro-enterprise firms. In many communities, beneficiary
demand in these areas has exceeded project resources. Significant demand also exists regarding the
expansion of the non-motorized transport component, which began as a pilot under the first phase.
Communities have contributed towards the cost of these works. One province -Arequipa-- has offered to be
the test site for the road management pilot and has pledged to cover all operating costs and a substantial
portion of maintenance costs once the roads are rehabilitated. Nevertheless, the strongest indication of
commitment to the project will come when provincial and district municipalities expand their responsibility
under the proposed project to implement the MCM. In the workshops held in late 2000, most of the majors
confirmed their willingness to commit the technical and financial resources required under the MCM. Prior
to starting new investments under the proposed project, majors will sign the respective "Convenios de
Encargo" that enable the transfer of funds for the MCM. PCR good collaboration with local commimities
and governments should serve well in the attempt to decentralize more responsibility.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bringing worldwide knowledge on best practices. The Bank's key role in designing the Rural Roads
Program has been well appreciated by the Borrower. Bank involvement brought several "best practice'
approaches, which were highly innovative and positive in their outcomes. Bank assistance during the
second phase would continue bringing global experience to further and increase the sustainability of rural
road sector reforns, deepening the consideration of social issues in alleviating rural poverty, and enhancing
coordination with other rural development programs. These are areas where the Bank has accumulated
considerable knowledge and experience as a result of its extensive worldwide involvement in the transport
sector and its analytical rigor in relating transport interventions with poverty reduction. Also, through its
wide participation in most of Peru's poverty alleviation programs in rural areas and its extensive
involvement with civil society representatives, the Bank has accumulated a substantial amount of
knowledge on the large number of programs presently underway and the issues that need to be addressed to
- 24 -



improve their effectiveness.
Stable Financing for Reforns. The proposed project is part of GOP's strategy to alleviate rural poverty
and consolidate financing for the rural road rehabilitation and maintenance plan for the next three years.
The plan sets targets to attain conditions needed to unlock development/reduce poverty and develop
institutional and financial capacity at both local and central levels of government. Steady multilateral
support is an essential element of the government financial strategy for the continuation of the successful
Rural Roads Program started in 1995.
Complimentary synergies and coordination with other major donors. The effective and synergistic
collaboration with the IDB started under the RRP has been well appreciated by both MTC and PCR, and
pointed out as a prime example of what can be achieved when both institutions work together. The parties
involved have developed an open and effective dialogue that has overcome constraints in institutional
capacity at the national and local levels and has catalyzed project implementation. Various advantages
stemmed from this partnership: (i) reaching an agreed position on key policy issues and strategies. Project
and policy issues were openly discussed during the imnplementation of the first phase and preparation of the
follow on project --with EDB, PCR and the Bank acting as equal parties. This has not only increased the
Banks' leverage with the Borrower but also contributed to adding transparency to the relationship, and in
turn, to building ownership of the project; (ii) mobilizing an enlarged multidisciplinary team. Supervising
the implementation of the first phase entailed 12 joint missions between 1996-2000, staffed with
consultants and staff from IDB and the Bank (both headquarters and local offices) and allowing skills mix
that would have not been possible in the absence of this collaboration due to budgetary constraints. This
collaboration went beyond joint missions: the Bank financed several social studies (e.g., gender, social
assessment) and coordinated the work with NGOs, while IDB financed several audits (e.g., review of the
micro-enterprise program, environmental audit); (iii) simplifying PCR's task management of the project
through the unification of project operational procedures and reporting requirements (which were agreed
upon by the Banks under the MOP); and (iv) enriching the dialogue within the IDB and Bank team, as the
respective staff brought the knowledge of best practices developed by each institution.
- 25 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit      NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
The Participatory Process of Sub-Project Selection. In the context of the project's grassroots-orientation
and participatory framework, the economic evaluation represents a step within the eligibility criteria that
are applied to corroborate the feasibility of the sub-projects in achieving the objectives of the RRP. The
selection of sub-projects consists of a process of steps that will ensure that the selected sub-projects enjoy
the acceptance and ownership of the affected communities, are technically sound, and respond to the needs
of poor areas and/or to the expected economic benefits.
The experience of the first phase of the program illustrates the analytical tradeoffs implied in the design of
adequate eligibility criteria and the related cost/benefit methodology when there is not an efficient method
for measuring the multidimensional impacts of investments in rural road infrastructure. A balance must
then be struck between the need to achieve comprehensiveness and the need to have a methodology that can
be applied in the field. In this respect, the proposed eligibility methodology attempts to capture those
various dimensions in a stepwise fashion, with an emphasis on institutional (grassroots-oriented) actions
first, the consideration of poverty indicators second, and on the evaluation of economic worthiness third. In
this last step, the impossibility of capturing all the benefits generated by the rehabilitation of a rural road
(as expressed in the impact survey) and the need to establish a sufficiently reliable but applicable approach,
required to limit the quantification of benefits to those that provide a good proxy of the adequacy of the
investments to advance the ultimate economic wellbeing of poor rural areas (namely, the growth in
agricultural and livestock production).
The impact survey showed a noticeable increase in the benefits derived from better access to social services
(particularly, health) and the better opportunities for social interrelations. These benefits will ultimately
generate additional income from the enhanced social contacts, health and education characteristics of the
population, which coupled with lower transaction costs should help communities to improve their economic
output. In all, the ultimate impact should lead to positive changes in the value of the net capital assets of
the poor, as can be reflected by the expansion of their income eaming activities (being them agricultural,
livestock raising, craft production, tourism, etc.). The project includes studies to further the knowledge
created during the first phase (as epitomized by the impact survey) and to confront the challenge of
developing better tools to capture through quantitative analyses the estimation of the benefits improved
accessibility can create to the local economies in a broader sense. Further research on the short and long
term impacts of this type of projects should help elucidate the effect that better accessibility may have in
improving the livelihood of the rural poor.
The second phase of the rural roads rehabilitation program will continue to be implemented within the same
12 departments where the first phase of the program was executed (plus a handful of contiguous provinces
for which the Government will present a justification to be agreed upon at negotiations). This will ensure
that the social and economic benefits are further maximized in the 12 poorest departments of Peru. The
distribution of resources (in terms of kilometers to be rehabilitated) among departments and, within each
department, among its provinces attempts to achieve that maximization of benefits while redistributing
resources on a manner that reflects poverty conditions, the still untapped potential of those communities,
- 26 -



and their commitment to the project. The indicative distribution of resources among departnents and
provinces, detailed in Annex 4, was established in discussions with key stakeholders considering poverty
levels and compensating for the amount of kilometers already rehabilitated.
The geographic distribution represents an indicative allocation of resources. On the basis of this allocation
of resources and the eligibility criteria (as explained in Annex 4 and in the Project Operational Manual or
MOP), the communities at the provincial level would gather together and each Provincial Council will
present proposals to the UEDs in the context of the definition of a strategic transport plan for the region
with the participation of the communities at large. The UEDs will contract the necessary studies to analyze
those proposals and forward the results to the PCR for final approval and the initiation of the tendering
process for the contracting of the related works. The final approval by the PCR will allow to take into
account possible network effects, such as the identification of road segments that may be in one province
but may benefit another or that an isolated link in one province may only achieve its benefits if connected to
other links in another province.
The PCR will evaluate the sub-projects and bring them into the context of other sub-projects in the same
geographical area in order to try to maximize the ultimate impacts of several sub-projects which are located
next to each other and with possibilities of being interconnected. If the functional characteristics of a
project are not deemed appropriate, the PCR can attempt to identify complementary sub-projects to make
community's proposal adequate from the geographical standpoint. The UED will confirm with the
Provincial Council this adjustment. The signature of a co-financing agreement by which these
municipalities will contribute to the maintenance costs of the rehabilitated roads (under the first or second
phases of the program) would be a further condition for going ahead with the analysis of the proposed
sub-project.
The sub-projects must have the technical and environmental qualifications specified in the MOP. The
former refer to the construction characteristics of the proposed sub-projects and their functionality within
the road network in the pertinent province or department. The technological characteristics require that the
proposed works allow for adequate future maintenance with micro-enterprises and the use of local labor.
Furthermore, the construction and maintenance costs of the proposed sub-projects would have to keep
relation with the expected benefits of the road. As to the functionality, the proposed sub-projects would be
analyzed within the context of the broader transport network and, in particular, of the connection of the
road to market and/or social services centers of the province or department, with the objective of
implementing interconnected "trees" or rural roads and, when necessary, or departmental roads to maximize
the economic, transport and social benefits of the investments. The MOP includes a section on the
environmental regulations that must be complied with--as specified in the pertinent contracts--by the
rehabilitation contractors and the maintenance micro-enterprises. All rehabilitation works will take place
within existing rights-of-way and will not entail any displacement of population or noticeable impact to the
natural habitat.
- 27 -



The Analytical Methodology. When these technical and environmental conditions are assessed, the PCR
proceeds with the analysis of the data related to the poverty, social and economic conditions of the direct
area of influence of the road sub-projects. The analysis of these data will cover a spectrum of development
stages and functional characteristics of the rural roads, namely: (a) those roads that provide access to rural
communities with prevalence of poverty; (b) those "mostly on the secondary network" that enjoy a certain
level of traffic as they connect areas with recognized economic benefits; and (c) those in between, that
connect rural towns and villages with poverty conditions less stringent than those under the first stage but
with limited use by motorized vehicles (as measured by the number of vehicles per day). These three stages
are described below (and in greater detail in Annex 4).
The direct area of influence includes communities around 500 meters to both sides of the road right-of-way,
without considering the most populous city at either end of the road. In the description of this area of
influence a listing of those communities should be provided along with the social and economic indicators
described later to apply the corresponding methodologies. When proposed sub-projects entail a total cost
and a cost per beneficiary below certain thresholds (US$250,000 per project and US$100 per beneficiary),
these sub-projects are evaluated under a social criteria related to infant mortality rates (with the threshold
set at 80) and unsatisfied basic needs of the area of influence (with the threshold set at 70%), prorated on
the basis of population. These thresholds were set on the basis of the experience of the sub-projects
undertaken in the successful first phase of the program. They ensure that sub-projects in poor conmnunities
that attempt to enhance at low cost their accessibility to social services are approved on the basis of access
improvement regardless of the ultimate impact on the potential increase in agricultural, pecuniary or other
economic production. When the minimum thresholds are not met, the sub-project had then to be analyzed
following the producers' surplus approach.
In those cases where traffic volumes are higher than 30 vehicles per day, an economic analysis would be
undertaken on the basis of comparison of the rehabilitation and maintenance costs with the benefits derived
from savings in vehicle operating costs, following the application of the Road Economic Development
(RED) model developed by the World Bank (on the basis of the HDM program). This methodology is
expected to be largely applied to segments of the primary and secondary network that may be identified as
critical to allow the connection with or among networks of rural roads.
For the rest of the cases, the producers' surplus approach would be applied. This approach relates the
rehabilitation and maintenance costs of a sub-project with the benefits that the sub-project would bring in
terms of increases in net agricultural and livestock production (net of local consumption and production
costs). This methodology entails the definition of certain assumptions about future increases in agricultural
and livestock production and productivity as a consequence of the rehabilitation of rural roads. These
assumptions built on the experience of the first phase and the results of the impact survey. Annex 4 details
the specific assumptions and the methodology. A benchmark of 10% was established as the minimum
economic rate of return for a project to be eligible. When a sub-project does not meet these criteria, it is
either discarded or reformulated.
The ex-post in-depth economic analysis (producers' surplus approach) of 36 sub-project completed under
the first phase (representing about 20% of the investments in the rehabilitation of rural roads and in the
number of kilometers rehabilitated) shows a prorated (by the cost of the rehabilitation investments)
economic rate of return (ERR) of 25% and a net present value (NPV) of US$20 million, or about US$0.93
per US$ invested in the rehabilitation of those roads. Two of the 36 projects complied with the poverty
thresholds and a third presented ERR less than the required minimum of 10%. (These sub-projects
however did show positive NPVs at the 10% discount rate when the assumptions established at the
beginning of the first phase are held.) The application of the average NPV per US$ invested to the
- 28 -



expected targets of the second phase yields an NPV of more than US$46 million for the project's
rehabilitation component. The combined NPV of the representative sample of sub-projects remains
positive in the event of lower increases in the production area, decreases in production costs, or increases in
rehabilitation and maintenance costs. Were a reasonable level of productivity is incorporated into the
analysis all the sub-projects except one would yield ERRs greater than 10% and the combined ERR would
become 48%.
These figures were obtained after applying to the best extent possible the results of the impact survey.
They must be seen with caution as the reliability of the information regarding the values for the variables
related to production and productivity in rural areas from the initial socio-economic studies was low
(though they were adjusted through their comparison with the latest agricultural and livestock census of
1994) and the results of the impact survey appears not to have captured the possible longer-term changes in
agricultural production. The results of the impact survey for the first phase of the program has shown the
apparent paradox that significant improvements in the conditions of travel, from reductions in travel times
and distances to enhancements in the provision of transport services have accompanied improvements in
access to certain social services but have not yet translated into more specific economic benefits (such as
noticeable improvements in agricultural productivity and on general agricultural production). The
hypothetical explanation is that the impacts from investments in transport infrastructure, such as rural
roads, may take time before they translate into noticeable effects on income growth and human
development. The second phase of the program will attempt to gain more definite answers in this respect.
The enhancement of the project monitoring system and the systematic application of impact surveys shall
allow the methodical measurement of the benefits of sub-projects before and after their implementation and
the comparison of those benefits to control areas of similar socio-economic characteristics.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Central Government. The design of the second phase of the program seeks a delicate balance between the
staggering need of the poor communities, which calls for a large program, and the budgetary ceilings
imposed on the sector by tightened fiscal conditions. The proposed project is one of the nine protected
programs targeted under the Programmatic Social Reform Loan. With the worsening of fiscal conditions,
MEF revised down in 2000 both local and external budgetary authorizations for the sector, thus
constraining MTC's ability to complete on-going projects. Furthermore, the sector faces a large amount in
loan commitments that remain undisbursed as implementation of several mega-projects has slowed down in
line with budgetary restrictions. To overcome this situation MTC is scaling down its investment program
and restructuring some projects and their external financing, to concentrate the funding on those that having
the highest priority should be completed with no delay.
The proposed project is aligned with the budget appropriations already approved for 2001 and
conservatively envisions an increase for the coming years, which MTC considers manageable within the
indicative expenditure ceilings set by MEF and its commitments for 2002-2004. Project funding
requirements start at about US$16 million in 2001 and raise to US$46 million in 2003. Past expenditures
under the Rural Roads Program have ranged from US$28.7 million in 1996, to US$77.1 million in 1997 to
US$25.3 in 2000. While the 1997-1998 peak is indicative of PCR's implementing capacity, the plunge in
2000 illustrates the impact of the fiscal crisis on MTC's program. This range varies more narrowly
--between 9.1% and 17.4%-- when rural road expenditure is compared with MTC's total annual
expenditure in the road sector. The funding requirements of the proposed project are kept within a 10-15%
share of MTC road expenditure, similar to the level achieved in 2000.
- 29 -



Transport Sector Investment 1990- 2000 (US$million)
|3 Other MTC Expenditure  L Rural Road Expenditure
450
400           OW'M>
350
300
200
15D      =
0
990 991 1992 993 994 995 S96 997 98 1999 2000
Municipal contribution for road maintenance. Provincial and district municipalities are eager to
co-finance road maintenance with PCR, in spite of the tight financial constraints under which they operate.
Their aggregate contributions to the MCM would start at around US$300 per annum and km rehabilitated
under the RRP, and may increase in the near future if there is progress in the fiscal decentralization agenda.
The proposed contribution represents between 4 to 10 percent of the transfers received through the
Municipal Compensation Fund (FCM), the main source of funding for those municipalities targeted under
the project. Although manageable, about half of the municipalities indicated in the workshops held in late
2000 that they would not be able to meet their requirement if they have to rely exclusively on the FCM
transfers earmarked for recurrent expenditures. These municipalities requested flexibility to tap the FCM
transfers for capital expenditure as needed to cover the balance.
The fact that the MCM heavily depends on budgetary allocations made through MTC and is anchored to
the project rather than to fiscal or sector funding policies, raises some concerns about its sustainability
beyond the project. It represents, however, the best compromise possible under the prevailing constraints in
fiscal decentralization. Government (MEF primarily) is concerned about the country's macroeconomic and
fiscal balance. Under the current political and macro-economic conditions, central government is not in a
position to decentralize additional revenue sources or increase the size of inter-government transfers. MEF
has also opposed to establishing a Road Fund when Congress approved the Transport Law in late 1999.
These alternatives could have enhanced the sustainability of road maintenance by linking its funding to a
more secure and stable source (i.e., a percentage of the road user charges collected by central government).
Additional reforms well beyond the road sector would be needed to empower municipalities to raise more
funds locally so as to balance responsibilities with financing resources for an array of local expenditures.
These are major constraints to designing an effective system of inter-governmental transfers and local
revenue sources that could support full transfer of maintenance responsibilities to local government on a
sustainable basis.
Nonetheless, the financial mechanism under the project represents an important stride towards gradually
transferring more responsibility to, and increasing accountability of local governments. Under the proposed
mechanism maintenance funding will be as predictable as possible: provincial and district municipalities
will be required to allocate their own funds (albeit partially and, at the margin, from FCM transfers as they
lack other sources) in a cooTdinated effort to support performance based maintenance contracts; and PCR
decisions to expand the project activities in a given jurisdiction will be more transparent (as they will
depend on the municipalities' compliance with the agreed financial mechanism).
- 30 -



Fiscal Impact:
Road users pay in excess of what Government actually spends in the sector. In 1999 road users paid about
US$600 million in charges or 2.2 times the expenditure in road investment and maintenance. This amount
represents 6.2 percent of the general revenues collected by GOP in that year. Gasoline and lubricant fees
(out of general taxes) are the main sources of funding, followed by vehicles fees, and by toll revenue raised
by SNMAC and Metropolitan Lima on paved national roads and urban expressways respectively. In
sum, while cost recovery in the sector is not an issue, actual funding for the various road programs is
highly dependent on budgetary decisions and external borrowings, with marked volatility in the case of
maintenance.
Table: Road-user Revenue and Road Expenditure 1997-1999 (US$ million)
Road User-related Revenue (by charge type)  1997                  1998                    1999
Gasoline tax (out of general tax)            218.2                220.9                   242.3
Diesel tax (out of general tax)              211.9                211.6                   210.6
Vehicle Registration Tax                     24.0                  19.4                    19.8
Tolls collected by Metropolitan Lima         25.4                 26.7                    21.9
Tolls collected by SINMAC on national roads  40.3                 26.0                     38.1
Vehicle purchase tax (out of general tax)    69.2                 67.1                    68.1
Driver License Fees                          n.a.                  n.a.                    n.a.
Total Revenue                   589 1                571.8                   600.7
Investment and Maintenance in the Road
Sector
MTC                                          304.7                408.1                   280.8
SINMAC                                       10.8                 11.6                    23.8
Maintenance in Metropolitan Lima              0.2                  0.2                     0.1
CTARs (departamental administrations)        28.9                 38.7                    26.7
Total Road Expenditure              344.7                458.7                   331.3
Balance Revenue - Expenditure               244.5                 113.1                   269.4
Expenditure as Percentage of Revenue (/)     58.5                 80.2                    55.1
Source: ODI based on data from SUNAD, SUNAT, MEM, SINMAC, EMAPE and INVERMET.
SINMAC's budget in 1999 was US$42 million.
Thus, sector allocation considerations (i.e., budgetary ceilings authorized by MEF and on-going
commitments in the sector) have determined the size of the proposed project. The RRP includes some
features that would help reduce the fiscal impact of the program at a sustainable level: (i) the project has
flexibility to accommodate different budget scenarios, as its investment program encompasses a myriad of
small, divisible investments whose implementation can be either accelerated or slowed down in line with the
availability of funds; (ii) the burden on counterpart funds is minimized by the joint co-financing
arrangement between IDB and the Bank; and (iii) the MCM is an effective tool to cope with the increasing
size and cost of the project's maintenance program as roads rehabilitated are incorporated into the
program. Mobilizing municipal contributions for maintenance, the MCM would even out the otherwise
increasing burden on central government funds, which would result from the continuous expansion of the
RRP. The financial plans calls for a total local contribution of about US$51 million (or about 35 percent
of total project cost), which looks feasible given that about US$11 million are expected to come from
municipal contributions. Participant municipalities have already confirmed in the workshops held in late
2000 their willingness to implement the MCM and capacity to meet their financial contributions thereof,
provided MEF increases flexibility for participant municipalities to tap FCM transfers earmarked for
capital expenditures when the transfers for recurrent expenditures are insufficient to meet their
contributions under the MCM.
3. Technical:
- 31 -



The first phase of the RRP has already demonstrated that in the highlands of Peru rural transport can be
improved and road infrastructure kept in good condition with a spot rehabilitation strategy, when followed
by continuous maintenance. The project solutions are well adapted to the highlands context.
Studying Rural Accessibility Improvement in the Selva on a pilot basis. Expanding the above strategy to
the Selva , however, faces several technical issues. First, rural accessibility in the Selva hinges on inland
water transport, as it provides crucial links between otherwise isolated communities and between
communities and centers of trade and commerce. River transport faces problems of restricted water depth
during the dry season; also, silting and frequent changes in the alignment of the Ucayali river often render
port facilities permanently or seasonally useless. Secondly, many existing roads are seasonally flooded
because they lack adequate drainage systems or simply because they go along and serve low lands (the
most fertile soil, which is cultivated during the dry season). This is further compounded by the lack of
aggregate materials, which increases construction costs over those typical in the highlands. Altogether
these factors call for different technologies and strategies for road upgrading. Thirdly, although the pilot
area looks homogeneous, in reality the transport problems and consequent responses of the communities
along the Ucayali River are quite different, thus the need to limit the pilot to a few strategic locations and
deepen the analysis of regional and local transport issues in each location. Building on the successful
approach used during the first phase where the road rehabilitation strategy was first tested in a pilot, the
project includes a small pilot to leam how best to address these issues before designing a larger program.
4. Institutional:
The systematic inability of local governments to discharge their functions is both a cause and an effect of
the prevailing financial and institutional constraints under which they operate. The RRP is a far reaching
effort to develop such capacity for an effective local provision of services and more equitable development.
Its pace and breadth, however, must be commensurate with Government's progress in its decentralization
agenda, which so far has been substantially less than envisaged in 1995. Hence, this second phase of the
program remains heavily focussed on poverty, and as such is not intended to carry a whole decentralization
agenda given that it deals with the poorest and weakest municipalities.
Nevertheless, with its deconcentrated structure PCR has made substantial progress in managing the
program through involvement of communities and local governments in subproject identification and
maintenance. While local authorities participate in the various stages of this process (from investment
planning to maintenance supervision), the dependence on central government will continue until
municipalities achieve the financial and institutional capacity to deliver such responsibilities. On-going
Bank sector work suggests that decentralization in Peru should proceed gradually by taking advantage of
and building upon successful operations of these deconcentrated/delegated structures, given the persistent
skepticism within central government on local governments' management capacities and concerns about
fiscal impacts of decentralization.
4.1 Executing agencies:
PCR would be responsible for carrying out most of the project activities. Since the RRP started in 1995,
PCR has demonstrated capacity to carry out the project with a development vision that exceeded the
traditional hard context of road activities. On the one hand, the execution of the ambitious program of
investments through a great number of small contracts in the most remote regions of the highlands of Peru
demanded from PCR a solid organization and strong management capacity. On the other hand, PCR's
performance allowed to effectively work with local authorities and communities, develop participatory
processes innovative for the sector and establish strategic alliances with other actors. It has been an
organization continuously trying to surpass itself and master the increasingly demanding institutional
challenges posed by the program. Perhaps the most important indicator of the success of the PCR as
- 32 -



implementing agency is the credibility gained before the rural communities and local authorities in the
project area.
The province of Arequipa was chosen to start the pilot on Provincial Road Management Pilot on account of
the strong commitment demonstrated by the provincial authorities to the pilot goals and the availability of
basic institutional capacity on which to build on to carry out the up-front work and implement the pilot
later on with greater chance of success. Annex 2 gives a detailed description of the implementation
arrangements. The Assembly of Majors of the province has already issued the ordinance establishing a
decentralized public entity to undertake the pilot, approved its statutes and appointed a Manager. The unit
has a specific mandate to act on behalf of all the participating municipalities with autonomy to contract out
works and services and administer resources channeled from PCR and participant municipalities, and with
its own budget separate from those of other provincial organizations.
4.2 Project management:
PCR has already demonstrated capacity to manage the myriad of small contracts with local contractors,
consultants and community organizations, that characterized the implementation of the first phase of the
program. The use of the Project Operational Manual ensures consistency in the solutions proposed and
procedures to be applied by PCR and its field units. The Manual establishes guidelines, technical
specifications and terms of reference for design and supervision of spot improvement and rehabilitation
works. The guidelines emphasize on-site designs for rural roads to keep engineering cost at an acceptable
proportion of the total construction cost, and more detailed engineering studies for primary and secondary
roads.
4.3 Procurement issues:
PCR's procurement system is comprehensive and covers all aspects related to procurement of works and
selection of consultants. Procurement procedures and guidelines are established in the Project Operational
Manual agreed with IDB and the Bank. Annex 6 summarizes the conclusions of the procurement capacity
assessment conducted during project preparation. Given the small scale of the project works, the proposed
project would mostly rely on National Competitive Bidding, which is more suitable for the municipal
environment PCR' central unit is adequately staffed with trained procurement, planning, scheduling and
cost estimating personnel. The procurement system is computerized and consolidates information sent by
regional offices and field supervisors. The general quality of procurement documentation produced by PCR
is satisfactory. Every six months, independent auditors acceptable to IDB and the Bank conduct a
performance audit of the project, examining a sample of sub-projects under execution, procurement
procedures and contract administration practices applied by PCR. There is also an internal control unit
within MTC that performs procurement reviews on a regular basis. Greater effort would be placed in
aligning project activities with the most appropriate season so as to increase the productivity of consultant
services and construction works, and enhance the social impact of those activities.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the Bank guidelines
under OP/BP 10.02. The certification was based on an assessment of the project's accounting system,
internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, and the selection of auditors, as well as
the format and content of the Project Management Report 1 (Financial Report of PMR set) to be submitted
by PCR in support of withdrawal application. However, while PCR has all the information required to
produce the financial statements included in a PMR and can accumulate project expenditure by category
and component, it has yet to demonstrate its readiness for producing the PMRs No 2 and 3 (Procurement
and Output Monitoring) needed to become eligible for PMR-based disbursements. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that by April 30, 2002, the PCR will start preparing PMRs, upon which the project would
- 33 -



start operating under PMR-based disbursement procedures.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This follow-on project builds on the various activities undertaken in the context of the RRP to address
environmental concerns, namely: (i) setting guidelines and technical specifications for screening, designing
and executing road rehabilitation subprojects under the project. The RRP's Environmental Manual
published in 1996 became an integral part of bidding documents and of the operational procedures applied
under the first phase of the RRP to streamline environmental assessment capacity in PCR's project cycle.
Other project technical manuals, such as the one for upgrading tracks for non-motorized transport, include
sections on protecting the environment; (ii) monitoring compliance with environmental guidelines and
specifications through bi-annual perfonnance audits. The technical and performance audits carried out
every six months since 1996 over a sample of subprojects helped in identifying potential negative effects
and keeping the focus on environmental issues; (iii) assessing ex-post the direct and indirect impacts of
project activities on the environment, through the project's impact assessment study carried out in 2000;
(iv) examining the quality of environmental procedures and their application in the field, through a
comprehensive environmental assessment conducted in 2000. This exercise provided the basis for
fine-tuning environmental procedures and implementation practices to be applied under the proposed
project; and (v) focussing on the restoration of environmental assets along right-of-ways. The
Reforestation Manual published in March 2000 is an example of the current emphasis on promoting more
sustainable development along rural roads. The Rural Roads Program has been supporting reforestation
programs in partnerships with PROMANCHS to better manage environmental impacts.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Environmental Management under the project. The project is rated as an EA Category "B", like the first
phase, since no major environmental issues are anticipated from project works. The project entails
rehabilitation of existing unpaved rural and departmental roads and improving non-motorized tracks. Since
these are existing roads and no paving is considered, the risk of additional indirect negative impact linked
with human activities (i.e., colonization, deforestation) is very low and the proposed project activities are
unlikely to harm the ecological and social environment. An ex-post environmental audit funded by IDB has
confirmed that the environmental practices followed by PCR are adequate to mnitigate the potential
environmental impacts of the project works. Such impacts are very limited: direct, temporary and of small
magnitude. The greatest environmental damages associated with the existing targeted road network are
erosion (slope instability) and inadequate location of disposal areas. By its very nature, the spot
rehabilitation and maintenance strategy adopted has positive impacts on the environment because of its
strong focus on identifying and offsetting erosion problems and improving drainage conditions. The limited
damaged infringed by El Nifio on the project road network (as opposed to the destruction occasioned on
other road networks in Peri's highlands) is a clear indication of the positive effect of the project activities
on the rural road network. Furthermore, in the highlands it is common to find eroding gullies devouring
productive fields, that farmers can not halt as they lack the funds and an understanding of appropriate
strategies. The project is contributing to address this vital issue by implementing a reforestation program
with the assistance of the maintenance micro-enterprises and in coordination with PRONAMACHCS.
In line with the recommendations of the assessment completed in 2000, the following measures will be
pursued to strengthen environmental management under the proposed project: (i) further strengthening
PCR's environmental capacity by creating a permanent position for an environmental specialist,
introducing on-the-job-training for staff in field offices, and fine-tuning environmental processes under the
Project Operational Manual; (ii) continuing during the second phase with the biannual performance audits
- 34 -



carried out under the first phase; and (iii) increasing environmental awareness among local government
officials and communities through the technical assistance components.
Environmental Impacts under the Pilot on River Transport Improvement. (See also section 7.2.) On a
very limited scale, the project supports a pilot to improve inter-modal transport along the Pucallpa -
Atalaya section of the Ucayali River, through the construction of small wharves and the respective access
and storage infrastructure on land in three locations. The purpose of this pilot is to develop a strategic
framework for improving rural accessibility in the Selva region where river transportation is prevalent, to
enable a sustainable social and economic development of these areas. The pilot will test the adequacy of
the environmental procedures and criteria to carry out transport improvements in rainforest areas and
monitor potential indirect impacts in the area of influence of the planned interventions. Road building is
extremely expensive and particularly damaging to the environment in rainforest areas. Thus, neither
regional roads nor works near environmentally fragile or legally protected areas are included in this pilot to
avoid negative direct and/or indirect impacts. Preparation of the pilot started in 1999 with an exploratory
social and environmental assessment of the areas tentatively proposed for intervention. With the areas now
narrowly defined, the following tasks are scheduled for completion before starting implementation of the
limited pilot works in 2003: (i) carrying out specific environmental assessments for each location to
identify and mitigate any direct or indirect negative environmental impacts; and (ii) designing and
implementing a reliable participatory monitoring system to evaluate both negative and positive impacts
through community involvement. The pilot provides financing for these activities. In view of the limited
scope and nature of the pilot, the processing of the proposed project will adhere to enviromnental
requirements for Category B projects. Se also section 7.2 below for a discussion on the project safeguards
in this regard.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
For the reasons explained in 5.1 and 5.2, a specific EA is not contemplated. Road subprojects identified
through local involvement will be subject to environmental screening and environmental impact
assessments carried out in accordance with the procedures in the MOP.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Local governnent officials and community leaders participate in the screening of road subprojects and in
validating the design of the selected projects to include local solutions and respond to local needs. NGOs
are extensively involved in project activities and participate in project monitoring and evaluation. Other
stakeholders involved are government agencies involved in rural development activities. The participatory
mechanisms used under the project are described with detail in the next section.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The mechanisms described in (ii), (iii) and (iv) in 5.1 above will be applied to monitor and evaluate the
impact of the project on the environment. For its vary nature, the objective and outcome of the pilot on
river transport improvement in the Selva are directly associated with the environmental sustainability of
both rural accessibility improvements (direct impacts) and social and economic development (indirect
impacts).
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
- 35 -



development outcomes.
Social assessment under the RRP is an evolving process that entails a continuum of participatory
approaches, assessments and studies performed throughout the design, implementation and evaluation of
the various phases of the program. The program concentrates on ensuring that rural accessibility
improvements reach the poorer segment of the rural population. The results achieved during the first phase
corroborate that the methodologies applied gave adequate priority to reaching impoverished communities in
the project area. This proposed second phase provides the opportunity to deepen the analysis of social
issues building on the recommendations of those activities and on the feedback from the monitoring
activities that will take place during project implementation.
Annex 11 outlines the various studies and participatory exercises conducted since the program started in
1995, conveniently grouped in accordance with the four traditional pillars of social assessment. This annex
thoroughly discusses the findings of the study completed in 2000 to assess the multiple impacts of the RRP
on the beneficiaries' access to health, education, markets, and opportunities for income generation
activities. The study measured a comprehensive list of indicators that characterize the livelihoods of rural
communities benefited by the project's transport interventions as compared to similar communities in the
project area that were not. The same study provides a baseline survey for the second phase and has been
the basis for project appraisal.
Since the project entails the rehabilitation of existing roads, no direct negative effects are foreseen and the
risks of indirect negative impacts linked with human activities (i.e., colonization, deforestation,
resettlement) are minimal. A case study was conducted in 1999 to document possible social side effects
associated with the execution of large project investments in relatively isolated areas. The study, carried
out in the district of Kiteni, concluded that road construction activities neither had negative impacts on the
local labor market and the price of goods with greater local demand, nor caused social disruption (e.g.,
excessive pressure on health services, delinquency, social conflicts). The study also depicted the high
vulnerability of these local economies and how road expenditures had only partially mitigated the
significant downtum of economic activity in the surveyed area that takes place every year after the coffee
harvest.
Similarly, another case study conducted in 1999 assessed the social and cultural impact of improving
non-motorized tracks in communities that have no other form of access. One of the issues explored in the
study was whether compensating the communities (albeit partially) for their work under the project could
weaken their willingness to undertake communal initiatives on their own (the collective faenas had been
traditionally remunerated providing coca and aguardiente). On the contrary, a small compensation in cash
proved quite beneficial for it helped communities to strengthen their organizations and cope with their
staggering needs for cash (which is scarce in the highlands given the extensive use of bartering).
Communities and road committee members reinvested their savings in local undertakings, improving their
welfare and stimulating their local economies. Another issue was whether the creation of road committees
resulted in overlapping or interference with elected authorities. No complains were found in this respect.
Communities were able to choose the form of organization. In cases where the communities chose to
collectively undertake the project works, the community leaders were designated to lead the road
committee; in other cases where only community members willing to participate joined the committee,
committee authorities were elected by its members. For some communities, participating in a "Road
Committee" meant having first time access to a bank account and acquiring new organizational and
technical skills.
Potential Impacts on Indigenous People. (See also section 7.2.) An estimated 1.7 million people live in
- 36 -



registered indigenous communities in the highlands or the Amazon region of Peru, of which 81 percent are
extremely poor. With its strong poverty focus, the RRP (and its NMT component in particular) has reached
many impoverished communities composed of indigenous groups. As it is current practice among NGOs
operating in the highlands, the on-going project has not dealt with its beneficiaries identity as Indigenas per
se, but rather has sought their participation in project decisions and activities, and to the extent possible has
relied on traditional community structures to deliver project components.
In contrast, NGOs working in the Amazon basin take into account the indigenous identity as a major
variable. Accordingly, the pilot on river transport improvement will explore the potential impact of rural
accessibility improvement on the population, with special attention to indigenous and vulnerable groups,
and their access to project benefits. As noted in previous Bank sector work, one of the most universally
expressed desires of indigenous peoples is to gain equitable access to government operations and to the
basic public and social services offered to other citizens. *I During the consultations with grassroots
organizations in Pucallpa (November 1999), various representatives of indigenous organizations made a
strong statement in this respect. While the nature of the interventions planned under the pilot does not pose
any risk to indigenous groups, the pilot is an opportunity to develop participatory processes that are
inclusive and address the needs of these vulnerable groups. Indigenous communities are socio-economic
organizations legally recognized under the Peruvian constitution, and as such may carry out projects on
their lands with funding obtained from their members, government and other agencies. The holistic
approach underlying the design of the pilot presents an opportunity to promote activities aimed at
empowering indigenous groups and gaining self sufficiency and local capacity to deal with development
problems. The table below summarizes some basic social indicators pertaining to the three locations where
the pilot will be implemented. The data illustrate the severity of poverty in the three locations selected.
Social Indicators - Area Selectedfor Pilot Activities
Pilot Location District             Masisea          Tahuania                 Campoverde
River Port Location    Masisea          Bolognesi-Nueva Italia   Nueva Requena
Population   Total District         12,083           5,608                    14,000
Target w/Pilot         9,251            1,745                    3,793
Villages    Number                 47               6                         14
Population             6,646            499                      n.a.
Indigenous   No. communities        18               35                       n.a.
Settlements  Population             3,447            4,666                    n.a.
Ethnic groups          Shipibo - Conibo   Shipibo - Conibo -Ashaninka Shipibo - Conibo
Poverty     Malnutrition (%)        75.4             89.4                     n.a.
Indicators   Illiteracy (°/O)       13.3             39.2                     n.a.
Poverty Category       Extreme          Extreme                  n.a.
Basic Needs - No fresh water (%)    99.0             100.0                    n.a.
Housing     No sanitation (%)       99.8             100.0                    n.a.
No electricity (%)     88.5             95.1                     n.a.
Precarious housing (%)    92.4          92.6                     n.a.
Overcrowded housing (%) 70.6            72.0                     n.a.
Indigenous communities account for about 29 percent of the population in the district of Masisea and 83
percent in Bolognesi and Nueva Italia. Social issues to be dealt with under the pilot include: i) the inclusion
of indigenous groups living in settlements along the selected pilot locations in screening pilot interventions;
ii) participation of indigenous groups in pilot activities and benefits; and iii) participation of indigenous
groups in monitoring impact of pilot activities. PCR will engage an NGO with ample experience in
- 37 -



working with indigenous communities settled along the Upper Ucayali river to design and carry out a
comprehensive consultation process aimed at involving indigenous groups in the selection, design and
implementation of pilot activities and preparing an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) with the
people affected. Prior to starting implementation of the pilot works, PCR will furnish to IDB and the Bank
the IPDPs for each of the locations selected to be prepared following guidelines satisfactory to the Bank
(which were recieved before Board presentation), together with the results of the consultation process as
well as a participation strategy for engaging indigenous groups in pilot implementation and monitoring
activities.
Impact on women. An exploratory gender impact assessment (performed by Centro, a Peruvian NGO,
with funding provided by the Gender Support Fund) analyzed gender roles and attitudes, and the
differential effects of the project on the lives of women and men, with respect to seven issues: access to
services, women's mobility, time use in domestic activities, access to resources and benefits, participation
in local markets, labor market dynamics, and women's participation in community organization and
leadership. On balance, the authors report generally positive effects of improvement of the rural roads
system: to a greater or lesser degree it has facilitated mobility, communications, access to resources, and
participation in the labor market for both women and men, and women report a high level of satisfaction
with the improvements made. However, the authors report inter- and intra-gender differences in the extent
and nature of the effects of the project; also, in some variables, no effects were detected; and some aspects
of the project may have had negative effects (for example, low levels of women participation in
maintenance micro-enterprises might contribute to reproducing a pattern of male authority in the
organization of road maintenance). Local gender relations, economic realities, and other factors (e.g.,
alcoholism and increased rural-urban migration, male abandonment of household) mediate the ability of
road improvements to effect changes in many major aspects of daily life, including access to services,
women's mobility patterns, labor market participation. The usefulness of the findings is greatly increased
by the recognition that (i) neither women nor men constitute homogenous groups, and (ii) gender relations
vary locally (in spite of the apparent homogeneity of the communities sampled); consequently, project
impact studies need to differentiate between relevant groups and tie their findings to specific geographic
areas or communities. More details are given in Annex 11.
Peru Indigenous Peoples' Development Background, Policies and Program Strategy. World Bank, November 1998.
6.2 Participatory AppToach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Participation in Sub-project Generation. To achieve the intended objectives of alleviating poverty and
building up local institutional capacity for sustainable maintenance, the on-going project makes the
beneficiaries participate in the various phases of subproject generation, design, implementation and
maintenance. Box 4 gives a brief description of the participatory processes carried out during the
implementation of the on-going project, their intended purposes and main contributions to the project.
These exercises will continue under the proposed project, further strengthened with the introduction of
various measures identified in the context of the social assessment completed in 2000, which aim at: (i)
improving the identification of key stakeholders based on beneficiary profiles and outlining an outreach
strategy when relevant; (ii) retooling the participatory mechanisms as necessary to ensure active
involvement of the most vulnerable groups; (iii) addressing possible issues that may arise from a planned
expansion to poor areas in the Selva region; and (iv) refining the project impact monitoring system to
ensure that stakeholders participate in a systematic and organized manner in ascertaining the project
outcomes through household surveys, focus groups, etc. Table 10 in Alnex 11 presents the RRP's
stakeholder analysis and outreach strategy.
- 38 -



Box 4* The Participatory Approach under the RRP
*     Role of Participatory Processes under the Project. The on-going project makes the beneficiaries
participate in the various phases of subproject generation, design, implementation and maintenance. While the
whole project design is built on this participatory approach, it relies on the systematic use of participatory
workshops especially designed to ensure that community participation is undertaken in a systematic and
organized manner. The workshops have provided an opportunity to: (i) assess transport needs at the community
level, ensuring that the needs of the rural poor are taken into account; (ii) confirm with the beneficiaries the
priority of the proposed road rehabilitation subprojects and the commitment of the community to their
maintenance; (iii) validate the design of the selected subprojects to include local solutions; (iv) mobilize support
for road maintenance through increasing ownership of the project and promoting micro-enterprises fornation;
and (v) provide local communities with necessary information about the project and their role in the project.
Participation processes were also used to conform with community members the micro-enterprises for road
maintenance (see Annex II for a description of selection process), and design training materials and guidelines
for building rural road management capacity at the local level (whose adequacy was tested on a sample of
municipal offtcials representing the intended final users).
d      Workshopsfor Subproject Generation. In 1996 PCR carried out 23 participatory workshops in those
provinces within the project area that have the highest poverty levels, with the overall purpose of identifying in
consultation with local authorities and community leaders those road rehabilitation and NMT improvements with
higher priority for the communities. PCR's field offices conducted another round of partcipatory workshops (20
in total) in 1997 to assess the outcome of the rehabilitation and maintenance program, re-ascertain the priorities
set in 1996, and give alcaides who did not participate in previous exercises the opportunity to submit tbeir
proposals, as a first step to expand the project to new provinces. Alcaldes have usually been the first resource
used in giving detailed information about the basic structure of the community and its organizations, and in
identifying those leaders from the rural communities that should be invited. However, often spontaneous
mobilization happens: when local leaders knew about the meetings, they invited themselves.
*      Main Contributions. Community participatory workshops arc a powerful way to mobilize public
involvement in and create ownership of a development project. The workshops confinned the validity of the
project design and also proved very useful in. (i) confirming to PCR officials the adequacy of local participation
in identifying priorities and local bottlenecks to development; (ii) demonstrating the comparative advantage of
using NGOs already working in the areas for implementing some project components; (iii) identifying a large
demand for the rehabilitation of non-motorized tracks that in the absence of the workshops would have not
materialized. As the relevance of the NMT component had been questioned at certain govermnent levels, PCR
took two years to start its implementation until communities confirmed their strong interest; (iv) bringing a more
"holistie' understandings of the problems and needs faced by the communities. This perception has permeated
most of the project responses in a way that is far from conventional for a road agency; and (v) exposing loca
authorities to participatory approaches and enhancing coordination between provincial municipalities and their
respective districts.
Consultations for the River Transport Improvement Pilot. In November 1999, open consultations with
the communities of Atalaya, Yparia and Masisea along the Ucayali River made it clear that building
wharves and storage facilities and rehabilitating the rural roads and tracks that give access to them, in
isolation, were not perceived by these conmnunities as an adequate response to their staggering needs. In
spite of lacking elementary river infrastructure (which would allow better and safer river transport
operations), commnunities give little attention to these river facilities because they believe that only through
more ambitious road investments is how their communities will solve their integration problems and they
will get out of poverty. Also, it became evident through the consultations that certain social and economic
behaviors, inter-link among themselves to end in the problems (malnutrition, alcoholism, poor productivity)
that are driving these communities into stagnation and poverty.
Based on this early consultations, the project team agreed to broaden the interventions under the pilot in
order to complement transport improvements with: (i) offering technical assistance in areas such as land
use planning and marketing or commercialization strategies for local products; (ii) promoting strategic
- 39 -



partnerships to strengthen local organizations and obtain technical and financial support to develop
productive projects; (iii) coordinating interventions in other sectors such as water, sanitation, health and
education. The first two aim at helping communities to identify those products with greatest market
potential and produce them in the quantities and quality these markets require, while the latter aims at
delivering a holistic response to the "problems" that drive these communities into a situation of extreme
poverty and vulnerability. The participatory process will continue during pilot design and implementation
to ensure that communities have a clear understanding of the opportunities offered by the pilot, and the
reasons for rejecting certain community proposals (i.e., those that are either too ambitious for the scope of
the pilot or might lead to negative direct or indirect environmental impacts) as well as the activities included
instead to help these communities realize the benefits of the planned interventions.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The on-going project is making ample use of local NGOs to deliver those programs where civil society
organizations participation offers comparative advantages over other alternatives. The non-motorized
track improvement component is particularly suited to NGOs' work, as it requires building trust and
ownership among community members through a long-term involvement. Box 5 gives a brief account on
how the project has benefited from NGOs participation, based on an assessment done by PCR in November
1997. The positive experience gained through the pilot on non-motorized transport played a key role in
overcoming an initial resistance to involve representatives of civil society in government programs.
The second phase of the program will further this cooperation in two ways: i) broadening the involvement
of NGOs in strengthening local organizations and facilitating access to long-term assistance for the
communities to better realize the benefits brought by transport improvements (especially those to
non-motorized tracks as they affect the most isolated villages); and ii) establishing strategic partnerships
with networks of NGOs involved in rural development, to create new spaces for civil society and support
forms of privately-led growth capable of leveraging the multiplier effect of public expenditure rather than
depending exclusively on public expenditure (see Annex 2 for a description of the so-called "Local
Development Window").
-40 -



k1x 5: Experlence with NCOs under the first phase of the NW
*     RaAsonae. NGOs offer compaatie advatages in delvng progams where a well-established, trusted
relatioip wit the community is critical io mobilizing ownership at the loca level and achieving long-tem
suaability, and where NMs have the potental to letvege other local development initatves and ehance
side oc   ct
^     Br&eadth of NGO]nvo"me  About2 N3O& have so farpwtiucie  n prjetactivti  with 21 local
NOOs involved in the design andimplementation of NMTiprovements, and the remander in acivities such as
th formaton of micro-entrprises for tural road maintenance, prpn  of trai    matrials am guidelines for
institution  strengthing through partpaty methods. This success is predicated on an appropriate selection
of the loal NGOs as well as PCR's commitment to the progam. (The conmso  behind them were the advise
and vaable contacts provided by the Ban's NOO coordinat im the Lina OffiCe, who gained the rust of both
P?CR=d NGOs involved).
*       eCoparative.4dvaga of NGO$ In an sesment performe in November 1997, PCR onluded tt:
(a) the methodokogy used for procing he srvices    din the selection of NOOs with extense knowledge of
the local conditions and a proven reord in the executon of loa developmentprojects.  Both are vital for
increas ownesi and gining suppoK fiom onnity members; (b) the ciompaative advantages of NOOs
over other alrnives include (i) lwer oots due t onoemis Of scale achievedy being already operating in
the area;(ii)greater capacity to mobi  and link WfttcMMUity deto the involvMet hey have thrug
their own development prets (iii) a clear ideifion withs agographic aream    the extent tat an NW not
active in a given area dined t invitaon o participa); and (iv) grat fblexilty to accommodate local
piorie as perivw by te communities.
*     Best Prx*es under the Prject: The NWO who assisted the com ites of aruro and Accobamba in
designing and  rying out NT impovemets did a remakable job in two particularly relevat aspects: i) the
eff  placed to ens   hat the commut interalzes and commits Jtself to th prct objecives, For example,
thec "a*cr the proecu trgets werebasd on realistirowthasumptions discasted A agred uon with the
eommaity rater than the lage poeni offered by th projec arme  Cfl   rurl communities cult  only a
ail porto  of the availabl arble ndas theyperceivetat ith lckofacceoss t  ctins
comriaiato oflre supue, on averag ony 20% of theprdcto is sold). Th lbead of £omnt
hosehold aweed-toXinc-ease by. 2Xcthe area subjtto    aspot oftheir commitme to he project; and
ii) tei flibilty and stog con nt to acommodting opror   to thelt         ati p     d
engineering degs-ant nd superavse the execution of additional       r                od to
the omutyneeds., Althgh their contrcst had log ago expird 1, tNO  coEntiu  to be involved wt fte
c     it andpromotes the m lization of additional assistanceby other N s ative in the area. It bcoomes
ecet taSt fr NG,the client to which they felt accountable was the comnuii rather than- PCR, as the
IreloatOiip _*nd credibility *alray establshed wifth* themmunity is. wha they value most.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
For its demonstrated capacity and position within PCR, the Social Mobilization and Institutional
Development Unit -one of the three main organizational divisions within PCR -is well-prepared to
undertake the proposed project activities and ensure that the project achieves its intended social
development outcomes. Furthermore, gender and social analysis training will be mandatory for the staff
working in the unit as well as for staff working in the 1O field units. The unit will also be trained in
participatory methodologies to strengthen its work with municipal governments and communities. The
training on gender has already started. Training would also be offered to local officials and community
leaders (majors, community leaders) as part of the municipal strengthening efforts (see Annex 2). The
training modules range from raising awareness raising to acquiring of skills relevant in the performance of
their (sometimes new) duties.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project includes a comprehensive project monitoring and evaluation system based on a combination of:
- 41 -



(i) surveys and compilation of data collected by PCR to report the selected monitoring indicators agreed
upon under the project logical framework, which are shown with greater detail in Annex 1; (ii) a series of
participatory workshops with beneficiaries and interviews with focus groups performed on a regular basis
by PCR and the NGOs involved in the "Local Development Window" to gather information on
communities needs and perceptions. A great deal of the project's success is due to the committed
participation of manifold groups diligently contributing their "grain of sand" to accomplish project aims.
These groups have been mobilized and are being supported by staff from the project and from other
collaborating organizations within civil society or the public sector; (iii) rapid social assessments exercises,
centered on a particular theme to better understand social links or effects; and (iv) a formal assessment of
the impact of project activities on the livelihood of the beneficiaries. A study similar to the one completed
in 2000 will be repeated in 2003.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The safeguard policies on Environmental Assessment and Indigenous Peoples would apply to one of the
project components only: the pilot on River Transport Improvement. The pilot is of a very limited scale --
it represent less than 3.5 percent of the total project cost - and its purpose is, precisely, to develop and test
a strategic framework for improving rural accessibility in the Selva region in a manner that will enable a
sustainable social and economic development of these areas.
For the pilot on river transport improvement, the environmental policy and indigenous policy of the Bank
have technically not been complied with because the environmental assessment and IPDP were not prepared
and fully disclosed before appraisal. An exception to these policies is requested because the activities in
question are minor and will only begin to take place two years after the expected date of effectiveness and,
in addition, the following conditions would provide an adequate safeguard: (a) before Board presentation
the Borrower has presented to the Bank satisfactory guidelines for carrying out an environmental
assessment and preparing an IPDP with regard to this pilot component; (b) a disbursement condition has
been established in the Legal Agreement that the IPDP and environmental assessment for the pilot on river
transport improvement will be carried out in accordance with said guidelines; and (c) a covenant has been
incorporated to the Legal Agreement that the component will not be carried out absent the existence of such
satisfactory environmental assessment and IPDP, regardless of where the financing may come from (IBRD,
IDB or local counterpart funds). Finalizing full consultantion and analysis from an environmental and
indigenous point of view at appraisal would have meant that the results would become stale by the time
they would be applied in two years time. Hence, it seems more sensible to finalize the safeguard work
when needed, controlling the situation through the conditions listed above.
-42 -



The pilot would finance small subprojects screened and designed through community involvement. The
specific environmental impact assessment (EIA) will be completed as the pilot interventions are identified
and designed, in compliance with the Environmental Assessment safeguard. A "negative list" of
environmentally sensitive activities will be included in the MOP once the EIA is completed. Moreover, key
safeguards built into the pilot design ensure its implementation will have no adverse impacts on the
environment and/or the livelihood of the communities in the pilot area, namely: (i) the pilot will be carried
out in a purposely limited area. Centering the activities around a few locations helps to keep under control
the pilot interventions and their impacts, thus reducing any risks associated with them; (ii) the proposed
accessibility improvements hinge on the use of existing waterways and river transport services for
inter-regional transportation, to avoid environmental damage and eliminate the risk of induced migration;
and (iii) a substantial portion of the pilot resources --which represent about 23 percent of the pilot total
cost-- are devoted to completing environmental, social and economic impact assessments for each of the
areas selected, and designing and implementing a participatory monitoring and evaluation system to keep
track of outcomes and medium term direct and indirect impacts.
The exploratory assessments conducted during pilot preparation confirmed there are indigenous peoples
among the intended beneficiaries of the pilot. Preparation of the pilot has followed the sound participatory
principles that PCR has been applying under the RRP. Based on country reports (indigenous profile, legal
framework studies), and lessons learned with ongoing operations including the RRP and the Peru
Indigenous People LIL, the project has prepared a specific strategy to address indigenous issues. This
strategy provides the framework required for the preparation of specific IPDPs for the indigenous
communities in the upper Ucayali River through a participatory process to ensure they get their full share
of the intended pilot benefits. The reasons for taking this approach are as follows: (i) as noted above, the
pilot consists of small subprojects to be screened, designed and implemented by the respective beneficiary
communities. For their small size, these interventions do not pose a risk to Indigenous Groups living in
settlements closed to the three pilot locations, (in fact the pilot will benefit Indigenous Groups); and (ii) the
pilot interventions are scheduled for implementation in the third year of the project implementation period.
Completing the participatory assessments so in advance would not only render these processes outdated but
also raise expectations within the communities that could even turn into undesirable social effects if the
entire cycle --from identification to implementation-- is not closely managed, and/or the interventions are
not materialized in a timeframe perceived as reasonable by the communities. PCR will complete these
processes once both funding and management capacity are in place. The IPDPs developed under the pilot
will be submitted to the Bank to ensure full compliance with the safeguard policy before starting
implementing any civil works (condition of disbursement under the pilot). This is considered appropriate
given the nature of the pilot, its very limited scale within the context of the project, and PCR's track record
on the systematic use of participatory and impact evaluation tools.
- 43 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project derives its sustainability from two different aspects: financial and institutional. On the
financial side, the project provides a venue for continuous dialogue with the Government of Perui regarding
the mobilization of local resources and revenue-sharing mechanisms for road maintenance. This will
constitute a preamble to the ultimate definition of the Government's decentralization agenda. On the
institutional side, the project exposes local governments to organizational shortcuts based on contracting
out most of the works and services to local consultants, small contractors and community-based
organizations using work methods tailored to their capacity. Early involvement of beneficiaries and the
reliance on solutions well-adapted to the working environment of municipalities would increase capacity
and build pressure on local governments for continuous road maintenance.
Long-term project sustainability is linked to the establishment of a financial mechanism for the
municipalities to undertake road maintenance activities. Without adequate allocations on road maintenance,
the condition of the rehabilitated roads would begin to deteriorate. However, municipalities lack the
necessary financial resources, as intergovernmental transfers from the FCM and other federal sources are
presently insufficient to cover maintenance expenditures. Shifting investment resources to current
expenditures, improved revenue generation and increased intergovernmental transfers could potentially
increase road maintenance resources. The latter mechanisms would be developed under the proposed
project to ensure a sustainable source of funds for road maintenance and management
The implementation of the first phase has demonstrated how beneficiary participation and a clear
perception of the social impact of the project invigorate sustainability in many ways (see lessons learned).
It has also shown that community arrangements (such as the Roads Committees formed for the
non-motorized tracks) will not consistently deliver maintenance without some kind of support (either
monetary or in kind).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Local governments and communities do        N         This risk is mitigated by the success of the first
not develop ownership of the project or               phase of the RRP and the participatory
link the purpose of the project to                    mechanisms that underpin its design. The
individual progress.                                  proposed project includes measures to further
strengthen these mechanisms and a new
component specifically design to enhance the
social and economic impact of project
interventions.
Government unable to set a                  S         Recent developments in the political arena
decentralization agenda that would enable             suggest that a new administration will have to
the development of local capacity                     move forward in the decentralization agenda.
(institutional and financial) and support             The project supports a gradual and controlled
the gradual transfer of resources for a               transfer of resources to local governments
decentralized execution of project
activities
- 44 -



Municipalities are not eager to commit      M         Mitigation measures include: (i) strong
technical and financial resources to                  incentives for the expansion of the RRP within
effectively assume their rural road                   the jurisdiction of participating municipalities;
management responsibility                             and (ii) the RRP's pragmatic approach to
institutional building --gaining support by
showing results, which has proved a powerful
instrment during the first phase.
From Components to Outputs
Untimely release of counterpart funds       S         The size of the investment program was scaled
jeopardizes continuity of maintenance                 down to align project expenditure requirements
program and implementation of                         with conservative macro-economic projections.
investment program.                                   GOP has included the project among the social
programns to be protected in terms of budgetary
allocations and timely release of funds.
MTC not committed to the project's          N         MTC has strengthened its participation in the
poverty and institutional goals.                      National Dialogue on Poverty. PCR represents
MTC in the committee set by PROMUDEH to
coordinate govemment strategy for poverty
reduction. Recent developments in the political
front suggest that a new administration is likely
to carry on with this strategy as well as further
the decentralization agenda.
Municipalities are not eager to co-finance  N         The design of the cofmancing arrangement (e.g.,
rural road maintenance under the project              size of the contributions required,
arrangements and do not participate in the            implementation arrangements) was done in
project's institutional program.                      consultation with municipalities. The
arrangements include strong incentives to ensure
sustained support (e.g., additional investments
conditioned to compliance with cofinancing
arrangement). These incentives are reinforced
by (i) the credibility of the RRP, established
during the first phase; and (ii) the decision to
keep the project area within the 12 departrnents
to avoid competition for scarce project funds .
Lack of flexibility in the use of the       N         The removal of current administrative
transfers under the FCM prevents                      restrictions barriers that inhibit the availability
Municipalities from supporting the                    of local funds for recurrent expenditures is a
project's MCM.                                        condition of loan effectiveness.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Low
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects envisaged.
- 45 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Sector Policy. Making Operational the MCM: (i) the Borrower shall have issued legislation,
satisfactory to the Bank, that allows the Municipalities to utilize the transfers under the Municipal
Compensation Fund to meet their contributions under the MCM; and (ii) PCR shall have entered into at
least 65 Participation Agreements with the Provincial Municipalities with jurisdiction over rural roads
rehabilitated under the (First) Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, by which
Municipalities and PCR commit the respective technical and financial resources to put into effect the
MCM under terms satisfactory to IDB and the Bank.
*   Implementation. The Steering Committee of PCR shall have formally approved and put into effect, in
a manner satisfactory to IDB and the Bank, the MOP that will guide project implementation.
*   Financial. (i) a financial management arrangement satisfactory to the Bank shall have been
established in PCR and become operational; and (ii) the selection process of the independent auditors
shall have been started.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Borrower will undertake the following:
*   Implementation. Enter into Participation Agreements with each of the Provincial Municipalities, with
the consent of the District Municipalities within the jurisdiction of the respective Provincial
Municipality) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose of ensuring the
participation of such Municipalities in the implementation of the Project; such agreements to include
the obligations of the Municipalities and the Borrower in respect of the financial arrangements and
budgetary allocations required to support the MCM, the implementation of the institutional action
plans, the provision of technical assistance, and the coordination for the selection of rural roads to be
rehabilitated or maintained under the Project. In the event that a Municipality fails to perform its
obligations under the applicable Participation Agreement: (i) not include activities in the jurisdiction, or
for the benefit, of such Municipality in any proposed annual investment program until such
Municipality has taken corrective action; and (ii) exclude from the annual investment program
activities (including subprojects) within the jurisdiction, or for the benefit of such Municipality, other
than the activities for which the contracting of works or services has been finalized.
*   Carry out the Project in accordance with the MOP.
*   Through PCR, not later than November 30 of each year of project implementation, starting in
November 30 2001, furnish to the Bank for its review and approval, an annual investment program for
the following calendar year prepared in consultation with the Municipalities, specifying: (i) the
subprojects and activities to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan; (ii) the respective justification,
implementation schedule and budget proposal; and (iii) information on the rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance activities that MTC intends to undertake with its own funds in the project area on roads
that are critical for the integration of the RRP's networks .
*   Through PCR, ensure that the Participation Agreement with the Province of Arequipa entrust to RIPA
the implementation of the pilot on Provincial Road Management.
*   Through PCR, (i) not later than October 31, 2002 complete the implementation of the environmental
and social assessments, including the respective ElAs and IPDPs, and the design and implementation of
a participatory monitoring and evaluation system to keep track of outcomes and medium term direct
and indirect impacts under the pilot on River Transport Improvement; (ii) not later than November 30,
2002 start implementation of partnerships among local authorities, other donors and civil society for
the pilot; and (iii) not earlier than February 28, 2003 commence the procurement of the civil works
- 46 -



under the pilot.
*   Environment. Through PCR, prior to approval of any proposed subproject, apply the environmental
assessment procedures and guidelines prescribed in the MOP to carry out an environmental screening
of each subproject.
*   Monitoring and Evaluation. (a) Through PCR furnish to the Bank not later than January 31, April 30,
July 31, and October 31 of each year of project execution, quarterly progress reports on the execution
of the project during the preceding calendar quarter.
*   Through PCR, (i) contract technical audits for each semester of project implementation with
independent auditors to focus on the perfornance of the PCR and its UZs in the implementation of the
Project, including achievement of physical targets, quality and cost of the works, and compliance with
eligibility criteria, procurement, disbursement and environmental procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual; and (ii) fumish to the Bank within 90 days after each semester the report of such
auditors.
*   Through PCR (i) not later than June 30, 2003, contract an impact evaluation study with independent
consultants to assess overall project economic, social and environmental impact; (ii) not later than
October 31, 2003 furnish to the Bank for its review and comments the findings and recommendations
of the study; and (iii) not later than November 30, 2003 review with NGOs involved in Project
activities, other agencies of the Borrower involved in rural development programs and project
beneficiaries the results of such impact evaluation study taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon.
*   Hold a project annual review with the Bank not later than November 30 of each year of project
implementation. The annual review to be held not later than November, 2003, shall focus on the
following additional matters: (i) progress in the Borrower's administrative decentralization within the
rural roads sector and possible adjustments to the Project operational setup; (ii) adoption of a strategy
for rural roads funding; (iii) improvement of inter-agency coordination in the rural roads sector; and
(iv) evaluation of the implementation of the pilots.
*   Financial Covenants. Have the records, accounts and financial statements of the Project and the
records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than four months after the end of
each such year certified copies of the financial statements, an opinion on such statements, records and
accounts and report of such audit by said auditors.
   Carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than April 30, 2002, to
prepare quarterly PMRs acceptable to the Bank
*   Disbursement. As condition of disbursement in respect of: (a) payments for expenditures in respect of
project activities within the jurisdiction, or for the benefit of a provincial municipality, unless the
respective Participation Agreement has been entered into; and (b) payments made for civil work
expenditures under the Pilot on River Transport Improvement, unless PCR has completed to the
satisfaction of the Bank (i) the specific environmental, social and economic assessments, and
engineering studies for each location considered under the pilot, including IPDPs and Environmental
Mitigation Plans satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) the design and implementation of a reliable participatory
monitoring system to evaluate the pilot's social, economic, and environmental impacts through
community and Indigenous People involvement; and (iii) a detailed framework for a concerted action
agreed with the various stakeholders in each pilot area..
*   Retroactive financing, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be made in respect of
project expenditures incurred after January 1, 2001.
-47 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
2 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
2 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-48 -



1. Compliance with 84nk Policies
I 1. [IIiis projcot complies vith all applicable Bank policics,
l-, 2. 'it, foilowing exceptiol1s to Bank policies are recoiiimiended tor approval.  lhv prjiect complies witli
All othcr applicable Ba k policies.
For hlic pilot on river transport improvement, the environimlental policy aItd inldigUen1ous policy of thc Rank
have technically anot been eoilplied with becausc the environtivental assessment and IPDP were not prepared
and Il'illy disclosed hbluort a'It,raisal. Ani exception to these Ixolilies is requested bec.tusc thc activities in
(Luestioll a1C nliFlOa I Ianti will Olly begin to take place twta year.s after the expected date of OtTeectiveness anid,
int addition, the fiollowiig cotiditions would provide atin quate safeguard: (a) before Bourd. prcsentation
lhe BTorrower has presented t. thy I13iank satisfactory guilelinics ftr carrying out asn environimentul
asscsmient and preparing an VlDl' with regard to thlis pilot comtiponeint; (b) a disbursemicnt condition has
been e;sablished in thc Legal Agreement that the IPDP and environmental assessment ror tihc pilot on river
Ilnan%port improvement will b, carricd out in accordance witll said guidelines; and (c) a covenant has been
imueorporated to tle Lcgal A4cmcntt that the componientt will not fie carried out absent thei existelnce of such
satist actoty cntviroiiinclital  ' snessnient nnd IPDP, regar(dless of where the financing tuay come from (IRRD,
I D)lt or local counterpart tias). FinnliAng till constiltantion anid analysis from an environmental and
iW(igenards poilnt oFview at alipraisdl wouldf have meatit tliat the resuwhs would becomiie stale by tlte timle
they wotld fe applied in two years timiie. I terce:, it seciesr more sensible 1t finialize tho sateguard wouk
whtien tnceded, controlling [lhe ituatiotiOn thlrotighi thc cofitiviis listedl above. (See Itirther(letails in' section
Jose Luis lrigoycnl                     t y M. Leipziger
Team Leader                           8 tor ManagorlDirector                Country ManagerlDirector
- 49 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*Alleviate rural poverty and  *Overall reduction of poverty  *Comparison of data  *Absence of national
raise living standards of  and extreme poverty by 1.0   pertaining to the project area  macro-economic shocks and
rural communities in Peru.   and 2.0 percentage points,   in LSMS survey carried out   natural disasters maintains a
respectively.             by INEI or Cuanto.         favorable environment for
*Overall reduction of the  *Impact Evaluation         achieving the project poverty
poverty gap by 1.5 and 2.2    Assessment, performed over  reducing goal (poverty
percentage points in areas    a sample of benefited and  baseline remains stable
served by the rehabilitated    control areas.        throughout project
rural roads and                                      implementation).
non-motorized tracks,
respectively.
*Visits to health posts and
hospitals in project area
increased on average by 20
percent.
*Gradual diversification of
income-generation structure
and more dynamic labor
markets in areas benefited by
the project (e.g., percentage
of wage-earned income,
percentage of
non-agriculture income
increased).
- 50 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Crtical Assumptions
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
*Improve the access of rural  At project end:          *Impact Evaluation          *Enhanced coordination and
poor to basic social services, 1. Poorly accessible rural  Assessment, performed over  targeting of rural poverty
market integrating        zones are integrated to social   a sample of benefited and  reduction programs improve
infrastructure and        services and regional        control areas.              quality and availability of
income-generating activities economic drivers, as indicated *Project Participatory  basic social and
with gender equity.       by:                          Evaluation and Impact       infrastructure services, create
*3.5 million beneficiaries in    Monitoring System.     productivity-increasing
the project area are      *PCR's project information    human capital in project
interlinked by a reliable and   system.                area.
affordable transportation  *Evaluation Report issued by  *Implementation of on-going
system.                    Coordinator of LDW.         poverty reduction programs
*Travel time to markets and   *Implementation Completion  in project area not scaled
district centers decreased by   Report prepared by the  down due to fiscal
40 percent after           Bank.                       constraints or shift in
rehabilitation of project                              government priorities.
roads.
*Availability of freight and
passenger transport services
(in terms of volume)
increased by 30 percent and
their cost reduced by 15
percent with respect to the
levels reported in the
baseline studies, three years
after completion of road
improvements.
2. Employment generated and
creation of further
income-earning activities
stimulated in rural areas.
. 10,000 one-year equivalent
seasonal unskilled jobs
generated by road
rehabilitation works.
*5,500 one-year equivalent
permanent unskilled jobs
generated by road
maintenance works.
*300 community
organizations and/or
micro-enterprises are
engaged in local
development
initiatives/income-earning
undertakings identified
through the LDW, with
women participation above
30%.
- 51-



3. Strengthened local
institutional capacity to
manage rural transport
infrastructure on a sustainable
basis and to launch
community-based
development initiatives:
*100% of provincial
municipalities co-finance
with PCR the maintenance
of the rural road network
rehabilitated in their
jurisdictions through the
arrangements set up under
the project.
eAt least 12 provincial
municipalities graduated
under the program assume
full responsibility for
execution of project
activities.
*470 micro-enterprises
engaged under contracts to
deliver quality maintenance
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
*Selected rural transport  At project end:            *Supervision reports by Bank  *Local governments and
infrastructure systems   *3,225 km of rural roads     missions.                  communities develop
brought up to, and kept in    rehabilitated to an adequate  *MTC's road inventory and    ownership of the project and
good condition.            level of trafficability.   PCR's project monitoring    link its purpose to their
*350 km of connecting       database.                 individual and regional
primary and secondary roads *Biannual progress report.    progress.
rehabilitated to "good"  *Registry of                *Government sets a
condition.                micro-enterprises,          decentralization agenda that
*13,500 km of roads routinely  contractors and consultants   enables the development of
maintained at project      administered by PCR.       local capacity (institutional
standards by             *Activity Reports issued by  and financial) and supports
micro-enterprises formed   Coordinator of LDW.        the gradual transfer of
and trained under the                                resources for a decentralized
project.                                              execution of project
*3,100 km of community                                 activities.
tracks for non-motorized                             *Municipalities are eager to
transport improved.                                   commit technical and
financial resources to
effectively assume their rural
road management
responsibility.
- 52 -



*Strategic framework for  *Pilot for River Transport
improving rural accessibility  Improvement implemented
in the Selva region tested,    in demonstration areas.
*Participatory monitoring and
evaluation system for
tracking outcomes and
medium term direct and
indirect impacts established
in demonstration areas.
*Rural roads sector planning eDistribution of
and management            responsibilities among levels
strengthened at central and    of government clarified
municipal levels,         through enactment of the
Reglamento de
Jerarquizaci6n Vial and
implementation of project
operational instruments.
*Pilot for Provincial Road
Management implemented
in the province of Arequipa,
and institutional and
financial models for
enhanced coordination
between the province and its
districts tested.
*Contracts for road
maintenance adapted to road
class and usage conditions,
and supervision mechanisms
strengthened through
effective municipal
involvement.
*Local development         e"Local Development
assistance channeled to rural  Window" established with
communities in project area.  civil society, donor and
government organizations.
*Concerted intervention
strategy for enhancement of
project impact and
responsiveness to local
needs/capabilities.
- 53 -



Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                          Outputs)
* Rehabilitation of Rural  US$61.70 million      *Project Implementation Plan. *Timely release of counterpart
Roads and Connecting                          *Biannual progress reports on  funds ensures continuity of
Roads.                                         project execution issued by    maintenance program and
*  Routine and Periodic    US$51.80                 PCR.                     implementation of
Maintenance of Rural                            *Biannual Performance      investment program.
Roads and Connecting                             Audits.                 *MTC remains committed to
Roads.                                                                    the project's poverty and
* Improvement of         US$5.65 million                                     institutional goals.
Non-Motorized Rural                                                       *Municipalities eager to
Transport.                                                                 co-finance rural road
* Provincial Road        US$2.95 million                                     maintenance under the
Management Pilot.                                                          project arrangements and
* River Transport        US$5.30 million                                     participate in the project's
Improvement Pilot.                                                        institutional program.
Institutional Development:                                                   *Increased flexibility in the
* Improvement of Rural    US$1.37 million                                    use of the transfers under the
Transport Policy and                                                       Municipal Compensation
Strategies.                                                                Fund allows municipalities
* Improvement of Rural   US$3.71 million                                     to tap sufficient local funds
Road Planning and                                                          to support the project
Management.                                                                co-financing mechanism.
* Development of         US$2.80 million
conmmunity-based
micro-enterprises for road
maintenance.
* Strengthening local    US$0.72 million
capacity to engage in
social and economic
development initiatives.
Project Administration   US$14.00 million
Front-end Fees           US$1.00 million
- 54 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
The project comprises six components, namely: (i) rehabilitation of rural roads and connecting primary
and secondary roads; (ii) routine and periodic maintenance of roads; (iii) improvement of non-motorized
transport; (iv) provincial road management pilot; (v) river transport infrastructure improvement pilot; and
(vi) institutional building. A brief description of each component follows.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$61.70 million
Rehabilitation of Rural Roads and Connecting Primary and Secondary Roads
This component would finance rehabilitation of about 3,575 km of roads in the 12 participant departments
to improve accessibility to rural areas and restore operating conditions along regional economic road
corridors. It would entail works such as spot improvements to eliminate drainage deficiencies, correcting
existing surfaces with regraveling to provide a more durable running surface over poor soils and on steep
gradients, removing landslides, building retaining walls and additional drainage and erosion control
structures; these works would aim at restoring year-round trafficability and ensuring a level of access
tailored to the specific transport needs of the local communities. Through rehabilitation and spot
improvement access is substantially improved at a low cost, in terms of transport time required and
accessibility during the rainy season. Paving, widening or realignment are not envisaged, to avoid
unnecessary high standards that affect both cost and program output over time.
The project will rehabilitate about 3,225 km of rural roads. Though poorly engineered, these roads have
geometric standards reasonably adapted to the terrain and the traffic they serve (from a few vehicles a day
up to 15-20 vehicles on peak market days, mostly micro-buses and 3 tons trucks).
This component will also provide for the rehabilitation of primary and secondary roads that give access to
the rural road systems rehabilitated under the project and connect them with markets and economic centers.
These are unpaved roads carrying traffic in the range of 50 to 200 vehicles per day, and that after many
years with very little maintenance are in deplorable condition. PCR has already rehabilitated about 2,300
km of primary and mostly secondary roads during the first phase of the RRP, so the 350 km planned under
the proposed project would consist of carefully selected roads that are critical to integrating into
consolidated networks all the roads restored under the program.
Primary and secondary roads are under the direct responsibility of MTC. Thus, the works on these roads
will be coordinated with the road programs undertaken by DGC and SINMAC on an annual basis.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that MTC and PCR will coordinate their annual programs, and
PCR will furnish to IDB and the Bank by November 30 each year, starting in 2001, the rehabilitation and
maintenance programs to be undertaken during the next calendar year by the project and by MTC with its
own resources in areas that are critical for the integration of the RRP networks.
Because of the simple nature of the rehabilitation works, they can be carried out through labor-intensive
methods without compromising quality and cost-effectiveness. Most of the works will be contracted out to
small local contractors, who will make ample use of the labor force available from the benefited
communities. The implementation of the first phase of the RRP has opened up a regular market for simple
mechanized and labor-based rehabilitation works, strengthening the local construction industry. Use of
-55 -



local labor would increase farm incomes during periods of reduced agriculture activity, notably between
March and September in the sierra, which is the dry season when most of the works will be carried out.
Project Component 2 - US$51.80 million
Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Rural Roads and Connecting Primary and Secondary Roads
This component seeks to give continuity to, and further strengthen the routine maintenance system set up
during the first phase of the program. It would entail maintaining from about 11,300 km of roads at the
beginning of the project to about 13,495 km at the project end. The strategy pursued under the project is
that the road network in most of the sierra region first must receive rehabilitation before maintenance
activities begin. Subsequent routine road maintenance would consist of simple works regularly performed
throughout the year to maintain the drainage systems (ditches, culverts, vegetation) and the running surface
(filling potholes and ruts, maintaining the surface camber), supplemented from time to time with spot
interventions to restore passage, whose need typically arises during the rainy season between December and
April. The project would basically finance routine maintenance of those roads rehabilitated through the
project, but other roads could be included if local governments commit themselves to supporting these
activities. Maintenance of roads built or rehabilitated by other rural development programs would also be
eligible for project support, provided they are linked with, or in the vicinities of road sub-projects being
implemented under the project.
The first phase of the RRP set up a cost-effective routine maintenance system based on contracting out
labor-intensive works to micro-enterprises, local cooperatives and other community-based organizations.
The system has overcome the difficulties of ensuring central-government maintenance of a myriad of
scattered rural roads and the failure of traditional municipal force account works. The impact study
completed in 2000 has demonstrated its comparative advantages over other traditional approaches.
Moreover, the system has excelled in its social impacts, as micro-enterprises have generated employment
opportunities and acted as catalysts for other local development initiatives at the community level. The
perception of these side benefits has built pressure over central and local authorities for continuous road
maintenance. The micro-enterprise system would be fine-tuned through a well-focused technical assistance
program described described under Project Component 6 below. In particular, maintenance costs undeT the
RRP will be reduced during the second phase taking into account the lower opportunity cost of local labor
(agricultural daily wages), an increase in the productivity of micro-enterprises after several years of
training, and the introduction of various forms of contracts. Altogether, these measures will enhance the
sustainability of the micro-enterprise program under a municipal environment.
Emergency maintenance activities will continue being handled through contracts with associations of
micro-enterprises, supported by municipalities and contractors for equipment-intensive works. The follow
on project would introduce a more systematic approach to periodic maintenance, demonstrating how
labor-based routine maintenance contracts can be effectively combined with equipment-based area-wide
periodic maintenance contracts. While the project extensively relies on the provision of services through
the private sector, municipalities and associations of municipalities capable of setting up an efficient plant
pool would be eligible to undertake periodic maintenance works under agreements that would set out the
program targets and quality standards to be met, as well as the standard rates to compensate the
municipalities upon completion of the agreed works. The rationale for this is that many municipalities have
recently acquired new road equipment financed through a central government-sponsored program; the loans
were provided by Banco Naci6n and their amortization backed by the FCM transfers to participant
municipalities, further constraining their ability to make cash contributions to local programs. Pressed for
cash, some municipalities are renting the equipment to contractors without making appropriate provisions
for equipment amortization and maintenance. Thus, in these cases, participating in the periodic
- 56 -



maintenance program would serve a twofold purpose: ease the financial burden imposed by the
co-financing arrangements under the project and put the equipment to good use; more importantly, the
program incentives would assist in building up ownership and local capacity for network-wide maintenance
planning, resource usage and control, and increase accountability through stakeholder involvement and
close monitoring by PCR. Any force account-type arrangement with the municipalities would be subject to
prior review by IDB and the Bank.
Due to the high vulnerability of the rural road infrastructure, year-round access is possible only if
maintenance is provided on a continuous basis immediately after the rehabilitation. Thus, maintenance is
an integral part of the project design to ensure sustainability and credibility over time. The project provides
a structured learning exercise and adequate funding not only for developing innovative schemes but also for
sustaining their effectiveness through implementation. The IDB and the Bank loans would continue
financing the maintenance program on a declining basis, while the local contribution (central and local
governments) would increase accordingly throughout project execution.
The rationale for funding routine maintenance is that local governments have very limited resources
available for recurrent expenditures, especially in the poorest areas which are the main target of the project.
By providing a demonstration of the benefits from adequate and sustained road maintenance over the past
five years, the first phase of the program has developed a great deal of support for the concept of simple
day-to-day maintenance among the beneficiaries and central government authorities. However, central
government also faces tight fiscal constraints and, since local governments have the main responsibility
over the rural roads network, it is not sustainable to conceive a rural road maintenance system that entirely
relies on a recurrent transfer of resources from central government. A study conducted during the first
phase analyzed the system of road user charges and the financial position of the municipalities, concluding
that rural municipalities lack the funds needed to assune full responsibility for rural road maintenance.
The study proposed the creation of a Road Maintenance Fund to secure a steady flow of funds for road
maintenance at the various levels of administration. For its fiscal implications, this sectoral solution was
eliminated from the legislation approved by Congress (Transport Law of October 1999) leaving the
development of a more sustainable strategy firmly linked with and contingent on broader developments in
Peru's decentralization framework, especially those related to local fiscal powers and intergovernmental
transfers.
The proposed project would implement a co-financing arrangement between central government and the
benefited local governments --the Maintenance Cofinancing Mechanism--, which although not a definitive
solution (it still relies on transfers from MTC's budget), represents an effective step in the transition
towards fully decentralized management and financing of rural roads. From January 1, 2002 and on,
municipalities participating in the RRP will start contributing to the cost of routine maintenance activities
carried out in their jurisdiction. The municipal contribution is defined through a cofinancingformula in
terms of a "quota" per km rehabilitated by the RRP in each province. The cost of this quota -initially set
at US$300/km for all provinces- will be borne jointly by the district municipality with specific
jurisdiction over the road and the provincial municipality with jurisdiction over the entire province. The
quota might vary during project implementation depending on the progress in fiscal decentralization. To
ensure the timely availability and release of funds, the MCM will put in place the following two
administrative instruments, which will become part of the new Participation Agreements between PCR and
the municipalities:
1. Budgetary Transfer Agreements (Convenios de Transferencia Presupuestal) signed by the Provincial
Municipality and each one of the District Municipalities of the province, whereby the district
municipalities transfer to the provincial municipality the resources for rural road maintenance agreed
under the cofinancing formula. This transfer is made automatically from each municipality's allocation
- 57 -



of the Municipal Compensation Fund (Fondo de Compensaci6n Municipal - FCM) deposited in its
account in the Banco de la Naci6n, and into a special account in the same bank in the name of the
Provincial Municipality, which is to be used exclusively for the financing of rural road maintenance
activities under the PCR. The Provincial Municipality also deposits its share of the cofinancing
fornula into this special account through an automatic transfer from its own allocation of the FCM.
This agreement also establishes procedures for the Provincial Municipality to report to the District
Municipalities on the use of the funds;
2. Budgetary delegation agreement (Convenio de Encargo) signed by the Provincial Municipality and
the PCR, which gives the PCR authority to carry out rural road routine maintenance activities in the
province, according to the contracting and supervision methodologies agreed under the Project
Operating Manual (POM), and to have exclusive access to the resources deposited in the special
account of the province in the Banco de la Naci6n to cover the portion of the maintenance costs
corresponding to the local governments under the agreed cofinancing formula. The agreement also
establishes the reporting procedures to be used by the PCR to meet its fiduciary responsibilities with
the municipalities.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.65 million
Improvement of Non-Motorized Rural Transport
This component would mainstream a pilot developed and successfully tested during the first phase of the
program. Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) programs are strategic interventions to alleviate rural poverty,
as they provide access to the most vulnerable and poor of the rural areas. In the highlands of Peru, large
communities depend exclusively on tracks and trails to connect them to the closest village, district or road
in order to access basic social services and move their products to markets.
The unclassified network of tracks and footpaths services a substantial part of the transport needs of
isolated rural communities and of women in particular, for whom a significant portion of transport
movements are unrelated to the rural road network. Transport and mobility of goods and people in rural
areas rely on the existence of adequate infrastructure and on the access to means of transport. Mobility
needs in rural areas are often met by non-motorized transport (NMT) modes, even on classified roads.
Widespread use of non-motorized vehicles (bicycles, tricycles, and man-pulled carts) and pack animals is
hampered by both the poor condition of rural transport infrastructure (compounded with difficult terrain
conditions) and their high acquisition price, which is above the cash income earning capacity of most rural
households.
The non-motorized rural transport component provides local governments and communities with a tool to
assist them in the formulation of coherent programs for the management and maintenance of village level
infrastructure and improvement of transport technology. To this end, this component will finance: (i)
technical assistance for village-level infrastructure management. Participant communities will be
determinant in the selection, planning, implementation and financing of the proposed works. The project
would continue relying on NGOs with an established reputation in the area to design, organize the
community into road committees, and supervise the works. District authorities will oversee the programs
and organize at least twice a year 'faenas comunales " to maintain the improved paths; (ii) physical works
aimed at removing unsafe spots and other bottlenecks constraining the use of the intermediate means of
transport and facilities aimed at improving rural transport services and conditions, including "tambos" for
people to rest and keep safe animals and goods during long joumeys. The project would finance 70 percent
of the total cost estimated by PCR for the proposed works based on standard designs and unit costs. This
would fully cover the cost of materials, equipment and skilled labor, while part of the unskilled labor would
be contributed by the community.
- 58 -



Under the proposed project, the scope and time frame of the NGO's work would be broadened to help
communities take full advantage of the benefits brought about by improved accessibility, expand physical
targets beyond the project-funded ones at their own initiative, and undertake local development initiatives
(the latter through strategic partnerships describe under the institutional component below).
The project will not directly address the issue of improving affordability to more efficient means of NMT.
It is anticipated, however, that the project would have positive indirect impact on making rural transport
more efficient and affordable by raising awareness of the importance of transport services over the
unclassified village network through this component, helping design ad-hoc local programs to mobilize
additional financial aid for this or other purposes (see the local development window below), and generating
supplemental income through implementation of the road components.
Project Component 4 - US$2.95 million
Provincial Road Management Pilot
The proposed pilot will test an institutional model for managing the rural road network at the provincial
level, in which the municipal authorities of the province (provincial and district municipalities) will jointly
assume responsibility over the development and condition of a core provincial road network. This would
avoid the current institutional and financial segmentation that prevents municipalities from undertaking
integrated initiatives or responsibilities.
The province of Arequipa was chosen to start the pilot on account of the strong commitment demonstrated
by the provincial authorities to the pilot goals and the availability of basic institutional capacity on which to
build on to carry out the up-front work and implement the pilot later on with greater chance of success.
The pilot was designed building on a series of participatory workshops involving provincial and district
officials as well as key representatives of the business community with vested interests in good roads.
Municipal authorities have agreed upon the institutional and financial set up to carry out the pilot, and on
the provincial road plan with the core investments proposed for funding. Thus, although pilot investments
will start in 2002, substantial institutional building has already taken place through the preparatory work
made by the provincial authorities. The Assembly of Majors of the province has already issued the
ordinance establishing the Road Institute for the Province of Arequipa (RIPA), approved its statutes and
appointed its Manager. Due to its legal identity (a decentralized public agency), the unit has a specific
mandate to act on behalf of all the participating municipalities with autonomy to contract out works and
services (which may extend beyond the boundaries of a specific district) and administer the resources
channeled from various sources (i.e., central government through PCR, participant local govemments),
and with its own budget separate from those of other provincial organizations. As stated by the mayors of
the province, the success of this coordinated approach will likely lead to its adoption by other sectors in the
province.
As part of the proposed Pilot, the project would finance pre-investment studies and works for rehabilitation
of about 200 km of priority roads, and co-finance on a declining basis their subsequent routine maintenance
costs for up to three years. Carried out under close monitoring by PCR, these activities would serve as a
controlled test of a model for decentralized road management. PCR will gradually expand to other
provinces the model and implementation arrangements tested under the pilot, as their adequacy are proved
and other provinces achieve the basic institutional and financial capacity to implement them.
Prior to starting the pilot implementation, PCR and RIPA will enter into: (i) a Delegation Agreement,
which will set out the operational procedures and specific conditions for the transfer of project funds to the
- 59 -



province; and (ii) a Trust Agreement for operation of a trust account in Banco Naci6n through which the
funds will be channeled. Both model agreements were reviewed and found satisfactory by IDB and the
Bank. The RIPA would apply the same project operational directives in the POM agreed between PCR,
IDB and the Bank for the proposed project, and report quarterly to PCR on the execution of the agreed
program. PCR would transfer the funds to the trust account on the basis of a three-month payment plan
prepared by RIPA and adjusted at the beginning of each quarter in line with the actual use of funds during
the previous period. Subsequent transfers would be subject to RIPA's submission of the agreed supporting
documentation to PCR for justification of project disbursements. PCR would retain the right to suspend
the transfers to the trust account in case RIPA fails to comply with the terms stipulated under the
Delegation Agreement. RIPA's operating expenses would be covered by the participating municipalities,
and the corresponding annual budget authorization would be a pre-condition for the transfer of resources
from PCR to the trust account.
The pilot would also help PCR in developing skills and tools in areas such as supervising the execution of
provincial agreements for decentralized management of rural road programs, setting goals and time frames
for transferring responsibility to other participant provinces, and ultimately overseeing the performance of
rural road systems and the local agencies that manage them. They are critical to achieving PCR's long
term mission goal --which is to focus on rural road policy formulation, provision of technical assistance to
local governments and performance monitoring-- and gradually moving away from its current executing
role.
Project Component 5 - US$5.30 million
River Transport Improvement Pilot
The purpose of this pilot is to develop a strategic framework for improving rural accessibility in the Selva
region to enable a sustainable social and economic development of these areas. Poor people from the
highlands and even the coast migrate to the Selva in search of economic opportunities, increasing the
pressure over its fragile environment. They often end up settling in areas that spoil environmental
resources, place hefty demands on government agencies responsible for the provision of basic infrastructure
and services, and ultimately can not support a sustainable livelihood. This trend is favored by the
weakness of existing local regulations on land use, which are not enforceable in the absence of adequate
incentives to stimulate sustainable development pattems (e.g., basic social and infrastructure endowments).
The pilot will ascertain the set of technical, institutional, social, environmental and economic guidelines
needed for putting in place an effective inter-modal transportation system, capable of: (i) addressing the
current accessibility constraints faced by the impoverished communities living along or near the rivers, in
terms of access to basic services, regional markets, income-earning activities, (ii) averting the potential
direct or indirect negative impacts induced by such system on the fragile ecosystems of the Peruvian
Amazonia; and (iii) assisting local governments in creating economic opportunities that could lead to a
more sustainable and poverty reducing development of these areas.
The pilot will be carried out in a purposely limited area, in just three locations along the Ucayali river
between Pucallpa and Atalaya: Masisea, Bolognesi/Nueva Italia and Nueva Requena (the latter actually
along the Aguaytia river). The area was carefully selected for three reasons. Firstly, the proposed
locations illustrate different constraints and challenges to improving both transport accessibility and rural
livelihoods in a sustainable manner. The pilot would thus test different approaches to addressing these
challenges. Secondly, centering the activities around a few locations helps to keep under control the pilot
interventions and their impacts, thus reducing the risks associated with them. Finally, the proposed
accessibility improvements hinge on the use of existing waterways and river transport services for
inter-regional transportation. While this is an important safeguard to prevent undesirable environmental
- 60 -



and social effects, it represents perhaps the greatest challenge for the pilot, since it has to demonstrate to
the pilot beneficiaries that their accessibility needs can be met through river transport in a place where
residents view water transport as an inefficient last resort alternative to the lack of road access.
The pilot would entail: (i) completion of environrmental, social and economic impact assessments for each
of the areas selected and the corresponding engineering studies; (ii) construction of safe moorings (small
wharves) and durable landing facilities to improve cargo handling and make passenger and workers' access
safer and easier; (iii) spot rehabilitation of the existing rural roads that connect communities to the
improved landing facilities; (iv) rehabilitation of non-motorized tracks that connect with landing facilities
and rural roads rehabilitated under the pilot; (v) design and implementation of a participatory monitoring
and evaluation system to keep track of outcomes and medium term direct and indirect impacts; and (vi)
establishment of partnerships for concerted interventions in the pilot area beyond the transport sector.
Although badly needed, the proposed accessibility improvements, in isolation, are not perceived by
riverside communities as an adequate response to their staggering needs. These communities believe that
only through more ambitious road investments is how they will solve their integration problems and get out
of poverty. Furthermore, the consultations held to date revealed certain social behaviors that inter-link
among themselves and end up in the problems that are driving these communities into stagnation and
poverty (i.e., malnutrition, alcoholism, poor productivity). Thus, the pilot supports a more holistic view of
development interventions, in which the proposed transport improvements are accompanied by: (i)
technical assistance in areas such as land use planning and marketing or commercialization strategies for
local products; (ii) strategic partnerships to strengthen local organizations and obtain technical and
financial support to develop productive projects; and (iii) interventions in other sectors such as water,
sanitation, health and education. The first two, to be funded by the project, airn at helping communities to
identify those products with greatest market potential and organize their production in the quantities and
with the quality these markets require. The latter aims at delivering a holistic response to the "problems"
that drive these communities into a situation of extreme poverty and vulnerability, and though not funded
by the project would result from a concerted effort with other agencies to coordinate interventions in the
pilot areas. The on-going preparatory work includes an inventory of social programs, actors, and the
networks sponsoring them (govenmment, donor agencies, civil society), which will provide a framework for
coordinating the respective interventions.
As changes of community attitudes are necessary, the people whose behavior has to change must see their
interests linked with the change and commit themselves to it. Implementing the pilot under the proposed
holistic framework is expected to help riverside communities internalize the desired behavioral changes.
This also requires furthering the participatory process started in late 1999 throughout the pilot phases of
final design, implementation, and evaluation. Through it, communities would have a clear understanding of
the opportunities created by the pilot and other concerted interventions, the reasons for rejecting certain
community-driven proposals (i.e., those that are either too ambitious for the scope of the pilot or might lead
to negative direct or indirect environmental impacts) and the activities to be included instead to help the
communities realize the benefits of the planned interventions. In particular, the workshops during the final
design phase would assist in triangulating social data gathered under the studies and reflect more accurately
the perceptions and interests of vulnerable stakeholders (ethnicity, gender, and age) in the definition of the
proposed interventions. The monitoring and evaluation of positive and negative changes brought by the
pilot in each location would take place at two levels. Satellite imaging would be used for monitoring
changes at a regional or meso-level, such as land use, deforestation, fire points, agricultural crops.
Surveys, interviews with focus groups and community workshops would be used for monitoring local
changes and conflicts at an intra and inter-village level. The system envisages an intense involvement of
civil society, community organizations, and the population at large in the planned monitoring activities.
- 61 -



The civil works under the pilot are scheduled to start in 2003. Prior to commencing their execution, PCR
will furish to IDB and the Bank for review and approval: (i) the specific environmental, social and
economic assessments and engineering studies for each location considered under the pilot, including
Indigenous Peoples Plans and Environmental Mitigation Plans satisfactory to the Bank prepared on the
basis of the guideliness submitted to the Bank prior to Board presentation, and (ii) the design and
implementation of a reliable participatory monitoring system to evaluate the pilot's both negative and
positive social, economic and environmental impacts through community and Indigenous groups
involvement, and (iii)a detailed framework for concerted action agreed upon with the various stakeholders
(government or donor programs, NGOs, and municipalities) in each area.
Project Component 6 - US$8.60 million
Institutional Development
This component would further develop the institutional building program started under the first phase.
While its main objectives remain broadly the same, some methodological approaches and contents have
been fine tuned to better reflect road sector, govemance, and social issues exposed by the implementation of
the first project, and nurture new policy values which the follow-on project would emphasize (i.e.,
preparation for gradual decentralization, strengthening social capital formation, gender equity) and whose
effect must permeate throughout every activity of the program. The institutional program is organized into
four streams: (i) improving rural transport policy and strategies at a central level (MTC, PCR); (ii)
improving planning and management of rural road networks, at the level of provincial and district
municipalities; (iii) developing and training-on-the-job community-based micro-enterprises for road
maintenance; and (iv) strengthening rural communities capacity to create and engage themselves in
development opportunities by setting a "local development vehicle" through strategic partnerships
sponsored by the project.
Improving rural transport policy and strategies. MTC's Planning Office and PCR are the main targets
of this technical assistance and on-the-job training effort. The project would strengthen MTC's capacity
to: (i) formulate a policy framework and strategy for rural transport (infrastructure and services)
consistent with the progress made on the decentralization and poverty reduction agendas and the various
regulations mandated by the Transport Law (approved in October 1999). With the assistance of
consultants MTC has drafted the various Reglamentos stipulated in the Law, which would provide key
elements of the policy framework; (ii) engage on a collaborative dialogue with other Ministries on national
priority themes whose domain cuts across sectors (i.e., decentralization, poverty reduction); (iii) program
investments in coordination with other agencies within and outside MTC (including those in charge of
poverty reduction programs, especially relevant for the project); (iv) monitor the performance of the sector
and of the rural transport system in particular, and compliance with those investment programs critical to
improving rural transport services .
This component would also assist PCR in furtheT strengthening the road maintenance system, so
successfully iimplemented during the first project. The technical assistance would incorporate into the
system best practices and productivity gains observed during its application under the first project,
establish different standards and costs in accordance with road characteristics and usage, and transfer more
responsibility to local governments in line with the phasing in of the maintenance co-financing mechanism.
PCR has already retained the services of a consultant.
In addition, PCR staff would receive training on areas that either demand new skills or will receive more
attention during the second phase of the program, such as handling the dialogue with municipalities,
- 62 -



approaches to strengthening community organizations, and gender issues. The same NGO who conducted
the exploratory analysis of gender impacts in 2000 has recently started training PCR staff on gender issues.
The program would continue throughout project implementation to reach first PCR field staff and social
promoters, and then micro-enterprise members, community leaders and other organizations engaged in
project activities; the content of the program has been adjusted in line with the needs of the different
targeted groups. This training would facilitate the accomplishment of other activities planned under the
project to encourage gender equality in rights, resources and voice.
The project would also help PCR to widen its contacts with civil society and Peruvian think-tanks involved
in rural development research activities. The workshops and surveys carried out under the project would
contribute to establishing a "forum", where project activities and the data gathered through them could
support further research activities by public and/or private organizations, and where researchers and
think-tanks could contribute through their knowledge and findings of their own research activities to a
better understanding of rural poverty links and the formulation of more effective strategies for a sustainable
reduction of rural poverty.
Improving Planning and Management of Rural Roads. The project would provide technical assistance
to provincial and district municipalities to strengthen their capacity to: (i) manage the core road network
under their jurisdiction; (ii) carry out and increasingly finance road maintenance operations (routine and
periodic); and (iii) help the communities in their jurisdiction to organize and maintain the network of
community tracks and paths that serve them throughfaenas comunales and other forms of collective
action. Designing effective institutional programs aimed at building local capacity poses probably one of
the greatest challenges for development projects. The quality and sustainability of these programs become
even more critical when dealing with poor rural municipalities which are institutionally weaker and more
difficult to reach.
This institutional program builds on a three-part effort. First, exposing all participating municipalities to
the organizational shortcuts, the simple planning and budgeting systems, and the extensive use of
labor-based methods and contract arrangements promoted under the project. This "demonstration" effect
--perhaps the greatest institutional achievement under the first project-- will be further invigorated with the
introduction of the MCM, since it expands the functions entrusted under the project to all participating
municipalities. With the assistance of an NGO, PCR developed during the first project a set of guidelines
to assist municipalities in strengthening their procedures. The guidelines are organized in five modules
conveniently suited to the municipal environment; they cover all phases of road management, with special
emphasis on maintenance. A key strategy behind this effort is to enhance coordination between municipal
provinces and their districts, and between districts and their villages. A piece-meal approach has generally
dominated municipal interventions in the road sector, bolstered in part by an unclear allocation of
competencies and responsibilities between the two levels of municipal government as well as funding
constraints that are further exacerbated by the current system of intergovernmental transfers under the
FCM. Establishing effective mechanisms to enhance the ability of the municipalities to work together and
build up trust among them, is critical to developing an integrated network and functional transportation
system for the province. PCR, through its local offices, would also promote the dissemination of "good
practices" adopted by municipalities, as these experiences, successful but yet at reach, carry strong
motivation and become an effective way of speeding up the development of local capacity.
- 63 -



Capacity to be developed                Tools to be implemented        By Whom?
*Identification of provincial and district road  * Road Inventory;             *AIl provinces
network and their physical and usage features   *Reglamento Jerarquizacion Vial  participating
(jurisdiction, functional class, level of service)    under Transport Law;     in project
*Assessment of needs (road infrastructure and  *Workshops (prioritization of road    .AIl provinces
rural transport services) through participatory  program)                      and districts
processes, and formulation of priorities                                       participating
coordinated between province and its districts                                 in project
and in line with PCR's eligibility criteria
*Maintenance management: contracting routine   *Monitoring maintenance program
maintenance to micro-enterprises and managing   and micro-enterprises
periodic and emergency maintenance.        *Payment approvals
*Development of a co-financing scheme       *Participation Agreement with PCR
between each province, its districts, and PCR,    (Convenio Encargo Ejecuci6n
and annual allocation of funds              Presupuestal)
*Provincial Management of road network      *Provincial Road Management Pilot   *Arequipa
(strengthening organization to plan, carry out    *Technical Assistance Program for  Province
pre-investment studies and works, supervise  provinces to be "graduated"      *Provinces
and evaluate programs)                     *Provincial Road Plan;              requesting
sIdentification of financial sources and    *Road Management System;            assistance,
institutional coordination with other agencies at  *Dissemination of experiences by  candidate for
the provincial level                        successful provinces               graduation
*PCR procedures for monitoring/
controlling performance of
provincial networks and the
agencies that manage them
.Community management of informal network    *Track Improvement Program at     *Districts
of Non Motorized Tracks (prioritizing tracks,  district level;                 where NMT
organizing Road Committees, designing      *Strengthening Road Committees      component is
upgrading programs, and setting up collective  and district governments in track  active
action initiatives for track maintenance),  maintenance management;
sAccompaniment by NGOs
Secondly, setting up a demand-driven, flexible assistance program for provincial municipalities in their way
to becoming eligible for direct execution of project activities in subsequent phases of the Rural Roads
Program. Sustainable development of capacity at the local level is possible when there is effective demand
by local administrations. This initiative would finance consultant services, participatory planning and
evaluation processes, and provide training on-the-job only in those municipalities who request the
assistance and therefore their majors are committed to leading the program. The targets envisaged under
the proposed project are necessarily modest, especially because initial progress would build on the
experience gained through the execution of the Provincial Road Management Pilot. The program would
enable participant municipalities to steer the definition of an agenda (activities, sequence, and progressive
benchmarks) tailored to their specific needs and realities. The use of benchmarks would help focus the
programs on a few prioritized goals, facilitate the assessment of progress and outcome, and increase
motivation by showing early results. These benchmarks may extend beyond the implementation timeframe
of the proposed project. In spite of this flexibility, the program would have a clear and practical purpose,
namely to "graduate" municipalities that have assimilated the policies and practices supported by the
project for an effective provincial management of their road networks, demonstrating sustained
commitment while accomplishing progressive results. The technical assistance program would be carried
out in a decentralized manner. PCR field offices are well-positioned to accompany the municipalities in
this process since they are close to them and enjoy their trust after a proven record of working together with
the poorest municipalities.
- 64 -



Thirdly, involving road users and other stakeholders in the road management process to increase
municipalities' accountability. The first project put in place effective local participation mechanisms to
improve selection and execution of rural road projects, and regularly assess progress in achieving the
project development objectives. The follow on project would now institutionalize these mechanisms so to
ensure they provide opportune and systematic feedback to the various agents implementing project
activities and evaluating project performance. The challenge is to create an environment capable of
mobilizing responsible leadership and participation at the local levels, in which multiple agents are
positioned to offer support to local governments.
Developing community-based micro-enterprises for road maintenance. The first project addressed the
difficulties of ensuring central-government maintenance of a myriad of scattered rural roads, and the failure
of traditional municipal force account works, by contracting out to micro-enterprises routine and
emergency maintenance of the roads rehabilitated under the project. The program proved very successful
(see assessment in Annex 11). The project would finance all activities related to: (i) promoting the
development of micro-enterprises among leaders of the communities and base organizations; (ii) assisting
micro-enterprises throughout their constitution, including legal and technical advice; (iii) contracting out to
micro-enterprises maintenance of all roads rehabilitated under the project; (iv) putting in place adequate
contract arrangements and payment systems; (v) providing on-the-job assistance training on technical, work
organization, financial management/accounting, and business administration skills until micro-enterprise
members develop entrepreneurial capacity; (vi) supervising and monitoring maintenance works and
micro-enterprise activities to ensure smooth implementation of the program; and (vii) supporting a
dissemination campaign among local governments to sensitize them about the benefits of the
micro-enterprise program.
Strengthening rural communities and households' capacity to create and engage in social and
economic development opportunities. This component is a step forward towards enhancing the impact of
improved rural accessibility on the ability of rural communities to develop capabilities and access concrete
income-earning opportunities to compose more sustainable and poverty reducing rural livelihood strategies.
The project would establish a "local development window" (LDW)/ through a network of strategic
partnerships with civil society, government and donor organizations. These organizations have expressed
their willingness to set up a concerted strategy to complement the work done by PCR with other
development interventions that may help rural communities make the most of the opportunities opened by
the accessibility improvements achieved under the project. This confluence of activities is expected to
produce synergies and enhance the probability of sustainable success. The specific objectives of the LDW
are: (i) to strengthen rural people relationships with dynamic networks of markets and institutions (e.g.,
industrialists, traders, organizers of production networks) that can mediate their access to productive
resources and to wider, higher-value markets and chains of production; (ii) to assist community
organizations and individuals in identifying, structuring and financing local initiatives and productive
undertakings that are better linked to market demands trough demand-driven technical assistance and
partnerships between technical assistance providers, regional business operators, financial intermediaries,
investors and donors; (iii) to empower community grassroots institutions and individuals by building up the
basic human and social capabilities (i.e., skills, social capital) needed to take a proactive role in initiating or
expanding development activity and become agents of change in their communities; and (iv) to establish a
private sector-led vehicle for coordinating, and channeling specialized assistance, and monitoring its results,
without overwhelming PCR with activities that demand expertise in diverse fields and time consuming
contacts with actors and grassroots groups at the local level, which are far beyond the reach of PCR.
- 65 -



The rationale behind the LDW can be traced to the experience gained through the first project. The impact
evaluation performed in 2000 showed that about 40% of the micro-enterprises were able to start new
productive endeavors, taking advantage of their access to a secure income stream, technical assistance, and
entrepreneurial training through the project. About 21% of these initiatives had to be discontinued for a
variety of reasons (e.g., lack of markets, insufficient technical assistance, and financing constraints). While
still quite a success given the difficulty of working in a rural environment, the results nevertheless stress the
importance of having access to appropriate "know-how" and market links to ensure the production of goods
and/or services with the quality and in the quantities for which there is effective demand. Through this
component the follow-on project aims at both strengthening the sustainability of productive undertakings
started by micro-enterprises and creating similar opportunities for other members of the rural communities,
in particular the most vulnerable and poor reached through the NMT component.
But the LDW goes beyond being a catalyst of productive undertakings. Rural people access resources by
engaging in relationships with other actors who operate within the State, market and civil society spheres,
and who are both present, but more often than not, absent from their day to day activities. Access to other
actors is conceptually prior to access to material resources in the detennination of livelihood strategies, for
such relationships become the mechanisms through which resources are distributed and claimed, and
through which the broader social, political, and market logic goveming the control, use, and transformation
of resources are either reproduced or changed. Thus, being effective in enhancing rural community
livelihoods requires acquiring competence to manage the relationships and transactions with the respective
actors in each of the three spheres, taking advantage of what can be achieved through one sphere, and
complementing it with actions in the other spheres.i This can happen through actions either of rural people
or of external organizations, from the inside out, and from the outside in.
Strong organizations with networks linking them to other market actors (e.g., PRA, a poverty reduction
program sponsored by USAID) can help open up market possibilities to rural producers that otherwise they
would not have, and can in this way increase their ability to turn their assets (of whatever type) into income
streams. At the community level, networks of trust and mutual accountability linking individuals in
communities (not usually all the community) are critical to helping break the problem of access to financial
capital and to promoting forms of collective action that facilitate the accumulation of produced capital, and
through this a more effective participation in certain markets (e.g., consortia formed by all the project
micro-enterprises in Apurimac or in Cusco to reach economies of scale and wider markets).
For the kind of skills and field presence needed, and to reach scale while maintaining a strong poverty
focus, PCR can not lead this effort. The LDW, with all the interactions between rural communities,
grassroots groups and key external actors, would be coordinated by an NGO with an established reputation
in working with communities and micro-enterprises in rural areas, and capable of operating in a highly
decentralized manner. Thus, the LDW would become the facilitating vehicle through which channel all the
project assistance to foster local development initiatives.
The project would finance part of the coordination costs, through a Partnership Agreement between the
selected NGO and PCR, and also training for NGOs and grassroots organizations participating in the
LDW. The Partnership Agreement would spell out the overall goals, outputs and expected outcomes, with
the inputs to be made by each institution, following a Logframe design of the LDW; the agreement will be
renewed annually by mutual conformity. Funding for other activities would be raised by the respective
participants.
The LDW would mobilize demand-driven technical assistance for identification of opportunities and design
- 66 -



of micro-businesses and productive projects. This would ensure the rational design and sequencing of
development initiatives, so that the economic assets created or services rendered by the community meet the
quality standards, price and volume needs required by the intended market. It would also improve
information flows, reducing transaction costs faced by both, community grassroots organizations and
private providers of technical assistance, financiers or purchasers of goods and services produced by
community organizations." The LDW would open up spaces for civil society and widen the communities'
contacts with prospective investors, donor agencies, NGOs specialized in micro-finance, and development
projects. It may also help in making financial institutions, especially the small and medium-sized ones,
look for market niches and opportunities for furthering their micro-finance programs to rural areas.
However, the responsibility for structuring, operating and financing these undertakings would remain with
the respective stakeholders and financial intermediaries involved. The LDW would not provide funding for
this purpose. It is likely that certain undertakings may need additional investments in basic infrastructure,
which might go beyond the capacity of the private sector, municipality or community involved. PCR will
channel these needs to the appropriate government or donor programs capable of funding them, in line with
the synergies sought by the LDW.
The graph below schematically describes the LDW, with the interactions and main roles contemplated for
some of the public and private organizations who have already expressed their commitment to participate in
this concerted effort. CARITAS-Peru is well positioned to perform the role of coordinator with its 48
diocesan organizations spread over the country and their experience in participatory social and needs
assessments and the structuring of local development initiatives.  Other actors who participated in the
design of the LDW, include: PRA, an initiative funded by USAID that seeks the articulation of rural areas
with markets through selected economic/commercial corridors; COPEME, a consortium of 72 NGOs
specialized in training assistance and micro-financing for small and medium size enterprises; and PACT, an
NGO specialized in training NGOs in organizing development undertakings.
Building partnerships: a window of opportunity
PCR   Inter-institutional Cooperation Agreement Local Dev. Vehicle - eg., CARITAS
*finances NMT works & NGO                    *Provides information/technical assistance to projects
*channels needs to rural poverty reduction programs 'Evaluates projects
*establishes local development window                             Contacts business community
local                   I                            4 (information on opportunities)
NMT contract NMT design/sup. contract                     e.g. PRA - USAIO            
Training (eg. PACT, COPEME)  *Facilitates connection with markets by
-train NGOs in project organization/financing   creating Economic Service Centers and
4 I          Technical assistance for   Improving productivity/commercialization
design/operation of small    *Contacts suitable financial organization
Local" NGOs               businesses (through
-organize NMT implementation  network of NG  s)  Financial Services
*provide assistance to strengthen             Network of NGOs specialized in micro-finance
community base/identify local businesses     Donors (e.g., GTZ, EU, USAID)
*Finance productive projects through micro-
credit, self-help groups, savings & credit groups
Partnerships and Financing
-            D                                                  Market contacts
NMT Committees                  Community Groups - micro-entrepreneurs
-implement works & maintenance   *identify local businesses and partners for marketing
*contribute with labor          *make up-front contributions and get external financing
*undertake/operate businesses - repay micro-loans
- 67 -



The pr:oedloale  devel opment~~ vhcewsnmda"oadeeomnwidwtorfcthtitensortherua
communtief C ar widi ow o~f opotuit the og  whichtrenslat  thei fxettonlowingo activitis:adraiis
(a)h sphere iastitstiownlois influeatives    th~e dstrvibution  ionto antreansfepojectio  is assts.e Wacand b dronoe the
enhancemlienthofd anew accestoresources(i y engeagoing tnhelatsittionshp (civhil thocarety sphrite is lmtdonor bandc
gommerncent lognc;  esa ianvoledoine hog dengaging wiithte Sntate iscntarnea, mapng temnacb ordibth  wasithih thei
chatewrs; n htcnbepachieved by colletie aafon ands  yenggn werith s other cvlsety ianctsias struuedgt by thxet
pageositionefits opnd ingt op this form ofrm afofn oprto   mn.hs  ranzosadtersetv
deveinopmaio elvnt p orgrams; roatd orgaizaetabioshg may web-rto ithrs cninfaions ond thoeLdurso andessn opprtainite
maffets rieso intereit forkeprousie the region,reionliiitvsanthi rsetiemresrspcieivsos
donAoesr ees and goveu oetagnicies, ulfe prloaldevelopmtentithl assistnew etForidentifie proiders, o heinacmtion  mad
deer olclnea edng protiites  wirthgseatrproutie<nfiadbyloainy; thermetheds and cdtnsfraccasingitanies    or dhe ors al d
CARi)A asrsings winvhluthe expere o n local  deveopmant act umupatory    nirogh exterisevte houmnuiywr and iso~a
epor  asoio e theveomn projectiso thatetnse p rogras aulid l setorsp (hosth sutitfi on ensurefioen particsaitation  an
striucturing and mo-armeig productive udracking,itr-esdan, laortainide ,elopmentunityinfasivrsctThe) Spendfingatvties
eqincldent ofi assismongh in mah obiminityART specia ni[sertcs whaen narecesstaryiiptor s iagporttes deign aout10
iporrrlecomentatio s, of ic rerociesactites a0 ear/sprodciaitiefont pro is mes,hodaloiycnrl, cppoamerimplizstatCAIon S
strategies, nformation  n prices; (i) reviewin =fea- it-  sedc
adlot  pa)it fo  mlmett; (i>epongteaaliitofmCrocei  n  iaca  evcs
an popsd localdeveprospmetivehilewasor  nmed anc s "oald develpetwno"t)elc  hti  en  o h  ua
enanceivitelhos u nti t eisr t resources  is engagininrelathenshp wthen l heve   markt shre isdimit~edb bseice
cmeecads ic  htca  edn through engaging with~n~   the S~,th~ate dis ina consrtse(n   woabled) byte wy inte wh~ichd the
rmang cfbnfts asnd limt ofptt fhsfomo   rbn
Thle ctinfrmbo relevan forrasros  orgniztio~onsmyeer totrs ou    dbnsad p   rocr t edulpwnrespor ccssingcrtains  i
mahets n ricessary caainitiets moutidheregion e ginliiitietnvhirpopie  marets,   rsebinveso~rs,
womn);s and governassit agencies, uaife proides lutof t dehnicasssane buietsospiaes poies h  nomto   a
rTheprtopoe local deed,atvelopenwth veicewase ptnbale ay localiy deelomen window codtion rfoec watcesitg menansin for theorurald
9CommuITieS: ang windowuaof opportunceity thougawic dvlpetransumlated theirg expettositoecinsiv aomndraities.adt
enhancelio fdveloodsend accjests toa resources benagings mlinl relationsis wieathin ntheimarke speeiiieducbyon basic sntbn
saticuworks; and whaocn-fbe ardchivedb collectaives aciconcedt landr engagingithgth cmuivioity actorsasstructured. byndn the
Tequinformation trelevaonth for gracsrot corganiztion mAyIAS referiatostehas, cndtiosiad otparoicduestory daccoessing craint20
donors ruand govrmeunitiaencwichrpes,nt qalfe providear/spoechicalassfor.Tistne met.horolprivate aprovchidplers, theifratio mAyIAS
reertolca ned,acivteswih ratr otnia b  ocliy;trm  adcodiiosfo acesngfiacig6r8oor ad



interventions are centered on the specific demands/needs perceived by the communities.
Other groups interested in joining the LDW and the areas of interest are: International Labor Organization, training of
micro-enterprises; CECI-Andes, a Canadian center for studies and international cooperation with interest in poverty
alleviation, democracy and human rights, environment and resource management; Grupo Acci6n Comunitaria, a consortium
of five Peruvian NGOs associated with Action International (a leader of the Consultative Group for Alleviating the Poor that
manages micro-credit funds), development of entrepreneurial capacity, micro-finance services (one of the NGOs is
MiBanco).
-69 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Local        Foreign        Total
Projet Cast By Component                   US $million    US $million    US $million
Rehabilitation of Rural Roads and Connecting Primary or      24.50         25.56         50.06
Secondary Roads
Maintenance of Rural and Connecting Roads                    30.40         17.85         48.25
Rehabilitation of Tracks for Non-Motorized Transport          4.20          1.05          5.25
Pilot on Provincial Road Management                           1.40          1.38          2.78
Pilot on River Transport Inprovement                          2.50          2.39          4.89
Consultant Services                                           5.50          2.38          7.88
Institutional Development                                     6.00          1.83          7.83
Administrative Expenses                                      14.00          0.00         14.00
Total Baseline Cost                                          88.50         52.44        140.94
Physical Contingencies                                       3.11          2.38          5.49
Price Contingencies                                          2.10          1.47          3.57
Total Project Costs               93.71         56.29        150.00
Front-end fee                      1.00          1.00
Total Financing Required                93.71         57.29        151.00
Local        Foreign        Total
Project cost By Catory                    US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                          0.00            0.00          0.00
Works                                                         67.01           51.23        118.24
Services                                                      10.40           4.75          15.15
Training                                                       2.30            0.31          2.61
Project Administration Costs                                  14.00            0.00         14.00
Total Project Costs      93.71          56.29        150.00
Front-end fee                      1.00          1.00
Total Financing Required      93.71           57.29        151.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 18.18 (USSm) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 132.82 (UJS$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 37.64
% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 70 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Introduction
The implementation of the first phase of the project showed the multidimensional nature of poverty and the
multiple interactions that take place in the local socio-economic environment with improved rural roads.
As reported in other sections of the PAD, improvements in rural roads bring about changes in the multiple
variables that affect poverty by enhancing the accessibility to a variety of services and facilitating social
interactions, in addition to reducing the transaction costs of rural products and stimulating the possibilities
of local people in developing productive activities. More crucially improvements in rural roads bring about
increases in the opportunities of rural populations, spurring their ability to increase their incomes.
As expressed in the World Development Report 2000, the impacts from investments in public goods, such
as rural roads, may take time before the effects on income distribution and human development are felt. It
appears that the rural economies take time to readjust to improved access to social services and to
economic opportunities. (In the second phase of the RRP, the effects are expected to be accelerated with
the establishment of the "local development window" to spur the initiation of local productive projects and
coordinate the potential efforts of various government agencies and non-governmental organizations.) In
order to assess the ultimate impact of the rural roads rehabilitation sub-projects the current project will
continue to monitor the impacts of the first phase and strengthen the monitoring function with the PCR.
The experience of the first phase of the program illustrates the analytical tradeoffs implied in the design of
adequate eligibility criteria and the related cost/benefit methodology when there is not an efficient method
for measuring the multidimensional impacts of investments in rural road infrastructure. A balance must
then be struck between the need to achieve comprehensiveness and the need to have a methodology that can
be applied in the field. In this respect, the proposed eligibility methodology attempts to capture those
various dimensions in a stepwise fashion, with an emphasis on institutional (grassroots-oriented) actions
first, the consideration of poverty indicators second, and on the evaluation of economic worthiness third. In
this last step, the impossibility of capturing all the benefits generated by the rehabilitation of a rural road
(as expressed in the impact survey) and the need to establish a sufficiently reliable but applicable approach,
required to limit the quantification of benefits to those that provide a good proxy of the adequacy of the
investments to advance the ultimate economic wellbeing of poor rural areas (namely, the growth in
agricultural and livestock production). In the course of the implementation of the second phase of the RRP,
several studies will be undertaken to continue monitoring the impacts of rural roads in advancing the
livelihood of rural communities towards incorporating further adjustments to the proposed methodology.
The eligibility criteria consists of a process of steps that will ensure that the projects selected enjoy the
agreement and ownership of the affected communities, are technically sound, and respond to certain levels
of attention of poor areas and/or to reasonable expected economic benefits. In all, this process responds to
a bottom-up approach in its identification and a top-down approach in checking its compliance with
selected criteria. As is stated in the World Development Report 2000, for local infrastructure investments
to be effective and sustainable, the demand-based (bottom-up) approach generally has to be complemented
by supply-side inputs (capacity building, information, outreach). Balancing a bottom-up identification of
investments with carefully selected supply-side inputs should enhance the prospects for equitable and
sustainable infrastructures for poor people.
The impact survey showed a noticeable increase in the benefits derived from better access to social services
- 71 -



(particularly, health) and the better opportunities for social interrelations. These benefits will ultimately
generate additional income from the enhanced social contacts, health and education characteristics of the
population, which coupled with lower transaction costs should help communities to improve their economic
output. In all, the ultimate impact should lead to positive changes in the value of the net capital assets of
the poor, as can be reflected by the expansion of their income earning activities (being them agricultural,
livestock raising, craft production, tourism, etc.). The project includes studies to further the knowledge
created during the first phase (as epitomized by the impact survey) and to confront the challenge of
developing better tools to capture through quantitative analyses the estimation of the benefits improved
accessibility can create to the local economies in a broader sense. Further research on the short and long
term impacts of this type of projects should help elucidate the effect that better accessibility may have in
improving the livelihood of the rural poor.
In the context of the project's participatory framework, the economic evaluation represents a step within
the eligibility criteria that are applied to corroborate the feasibility of the sub-projects in achieving the
objectives of the RRP. The selection of sub-projects consists of a process of steps that will ensure that the
selected sub-projects enjoy the acceptance and ownership of the affected communities, are technically
sound, and respond to the needs of poor areas and/or to the expected economic benefits.
Priority areas of intervention and pre-conditions for the application of the eligibility criteria
The second phase of the rural roads rehabilitation program will continue to be implemented within the same
12 departments where the first phase of the program was executed (plus a handful of contiguous provinces
for which the Government will present a justification to be agreed upon at negotiations). This will ensure
that the social and economic benefits are further maximized in the 12 poorest departments of Peru. The
distribution of resources (in terns of kilometers to be rehabilitated) among departments and, within each
department, among its provinces attempts to achieve that maximization of benefits while redistributing
resources on a manner that reflects poverty conditions, the still untapped potential of those communities,
and their commitment to the project. The indicative distribution of resources among departments and
provinces was established in discussions with key stakeholders considering poverty levels and
compensating for the amount of kilometers already rehabilitated.
The allocation of the total number of kilometers to be rehabilitated under the project among the 12
departments was undertaken on the basis of the following factors: (a) the percentage of kilometers of the
rural road network not yet rehabilitated; (b) the population of each department; (c) the percentage of
population in extreme poverty (as estimated by the latest publication of the Minister of Finance of Peru);
and (d) the percentage of poor in the non-extreme bracket. These indicators are normalized for the
ensemble of the 12 departments (in such a manner that the sum of the normalized indicators equals 1) and
added on the basis of the following formula:
Allocation factor = (1/3) * Normalized indicator for the percentage of rural roads not yet rehabilitated
+ (1/3) Normalized indicator for population + (1/3) * [(2/3) * Nornalized indicator for the number
of extreme poor + (1/3) * Norrnalized indicator for the number of poor in non-extreme conditions]
The weights given to each indicator reflect a large emphasis on poverty conditions for each departrnent
complemented with the first factor that attempts to compensate those departments among the twelve on
which the number of rehabilitated kilometers has been low. The formula attempts to capture the needs of
each department while considering the poverty level in each department in a manner that is clear and
coherent. The formula was discussed with the key stakeholders and agreed upon with them. The
application of this allocation yields the results shown in Table 1.
- 72 -



Table 1. Departamental Allocation of the Number of Kilometers to be Rehabilitated
crn                                                             "Rd  M,to US$
RFd V .. Rr h  Cob," Feb per                           % PebDD    FA  Aeigrnded   ro   Crbe
noeefJ  PCR1 p Dpt. eue 0e333 PO8WS-  0333   Nc  %Xpcb 0.222  no  0.111 FalOrde  3,300 $  15,5CC00 WS
Depalarnnto  lW  km.   %   1-eb.ot  Fedo,  R.d 2000    Faetr  polhe .  Fiioro   d   Fteoo   ovion    km  W,or k    PCR2
Ancash      2,470 1,092  44%  56% 0.089  602,077 0.034  576,790  51% 0.087  45% 0.087  0.080  263  4,079,644  55%
Apouimac    2,288  899  39%  61% 0.075  426,904 0.059  423,062  79% 0.135  21% 0.040  0.079  261  4,041,388  51%
Ayaoio      2,349  887  37%  63% 0(078  423,202 0059  412,622  65% 0.111  33% 0.083  0.077  255  3.949,800  48%
Caamarca    3,328 1,324  40%  80% 0.074 1,351,942 0.188 1,280,289  42% 0.072  52% 0.101  0.115  378  5,882,640  51%
CUROD       3,048  585  19%  81% 0.100  948,789 0.131  853,039  25% 0043  65% 0.125  0.101  332  5,152,016  30%
Haunuco     1,439  678  47%  53% 0.085  697,765 0.097  682,414  70% 0.120  28% 0.053  0087  286  4,430,908  67%
Huancavelca    2,984  804  27%  73% 0.090 431,088 0.080  437208t  85%/ 0.145  14% 0.027  0.085  282  4,385,340  36%/
Junin      4,035  583  14%  86% 0.106 1,074,947 0.149  949,178  33% 0.058  58% 0.107  0.109  381  5,587,884  23%
Madre de Dios    334  182  54%  46% 0.056  84,383 0.012  80,081   8% 0.014  63% 0.121  0.039  130  2,010,231  93%
Pasco       1,229  270  22%  78% 0.0986  247,872 0.034  218,840  30% 0.051  58% 0.111  0.067  222  3,439,311  40%
Puno        1,717  520  30%  70% 0.086  582,331 0.081  573,596  77% 0.131  22% 0.042  0.089  295  4,576,755  47%
San Marn    1,575  253  16%1  84% 0.104  340,141 0.047  282,997  20% 0.034  63% 0.122  0.071  236  3,854,084  31%
Total      26,797 8,040  30%     1.000 7,209.421  1.000 6,737,916  49% 1.000  45% 1.000  1.000  3,300 51,150,000  42%.
The distribution among the provinces of each department has been established along criteria similar to the
one applied to the departments (though with some changes to take into account the availability of reliable
information at the provincial level) and complementing them with institutional factors that measure the
capacity of each province to carry out the management and maintenance of the network within their
jurisdiction. Once again the methodology attempts to maximize the benefits of the investments (by
somewhat concentrating the investments on areas where the PCR is already allocating resources) while
distributing them to other provinces on the basis of poverty indicators. The allocation among provinces of
one department takes into consideration the following factors: (a) the percentage of kilometers of the rural
road network not yet rehabilitated within the province; (b) the population of the province; (c) the percentage
of population in extreme poverty (as estimated by the latest publication of the Minister of Finance of Peru);
(d) the financial capacity of the province to sustain the future maintenance of the rehabilitated road
network, as measure by the amount of co-participation resources (FONCOMUN) currently assigned to the
provincial and district municipalities within that province; (e) the quality of the relationship of the
provincial government with the PCR, as a measure of the level of ownership and commitment of the
province with the objectives and components of the project, and as expressed through interviews with the
staff of the corresponding UED; and (f) the management capacity of that provincial government also as
expressed with interviews with the staff of the corresponding UED and based on past experience during the
implementation of the first phase of the RRP. The values for these factors are normalized for the ensemble
of the provinces within each department, in such a manner that the sum of the normalized indicators equals
I, and added up on the basis of the following formula, that provides 80% weight to (a), (b), and (c) and
20% to the institutional factors:
Allocation factor = 0.8 * [(1/3) * Normalized indicator for the percentage of rural roads within a
province not yet rehabilitated + (1/3) Normalized indicator for the population of the province+
(1/3) * Normalized indicator for the number of extreme poor in the province] + 0.2 *[(1/3) *
Normalized indicator for the FONCOMUN resources of the province + (1/3) * Normalized
indicator for the relationship with PCR + (1/3) * Normalizaed indicator for the management
capacity]
The allocated resources would be presented by the UEDs to each provincial council, with an explanation of
the eligibility criteria (as explained below) for these provinces to present their priorities of roads to be
rehabilitated under the project within the amount of resources allocated to them.
- 73 -



Process of the application of eligibility criteria
Projects will continue to be identified and generated by the communities. As it was successfully
implemented during the first phase, the communities will hire promoters to identify and prepare draft
sub-projects that will be submitted to the de-concentrated executing units of the PCR. The PCR will
evaluate the sub-projects and bring them into the context of other sub-projects in the same geographical
area in order to try to maximize the ultimate impacts of several sub-projects which are located next to each
other and with possibilities of being interconnected. It the functional characteristics of a project are not
deemed appropriate (as stated below), the PCR can attempt to identify complementary sub-projects to make
adequate from a technical standpoint the community's proposal. If new complementary sub-projects are
identified, they should be presented to the communities for them to agree on their suitability and to ensure
the communities' ownership to the complete sub-project.
Previous experience with the implementation of the first phase of the program will be assessed to ascertain
that local commitment (now also in terms of contributions to the maintenance of the roads rehabilitated
under the first phase) has been and is present. In this respect, the condition for the second phase of the
program to continue further interventions in a province is that the provincial govemment and the district
municipalities had signed the co-financing agreements and are contributing to the maintenance costs of the
road already rehabilitated under the first phase. It would also be necessary the elaboration of a strategic
transport plan that delineates the priorities of the communities in the area regarding transport investments.
The presented sub-projects should have been identified through the definition of a strategic transport plan
for the region by the municipalities along the area of influence of the road and with participation from the
communities at large.
The geographic distribution among provinces represents an indicative allocation of resources. On the basis
of this allocation of resources and the eligibility criteria (as would be detailed in the Project Operational
Manual), the communities at the provincial level would gather together and each Provincial Council will
present proposals to the UEDs in the context of the definition of a strategic transport plan for the region
with the participation of the communities at large. The UEDs will contract the necessary studies to analyze
those proposals and forward the results to the PCR for final approval and the initiation of the tendering
process for the contracting of the related works. The final approval by the PCR will allow to take into
account possible network effects, such as the identification of road segments that may be in one province
but may benefit another oT that an isolated link in one province may only achieve its benefits if connected to
other links in another province.
The PCR will evaluate the sub-projects and bring them into the context of other sub-projects in the same
geographical area in order to try to maximize the ultimate impacts of several sub-projects which are located
next to each other and with possibilities of being interconnected. If the functional characteristics of a
project are not deemed appropriate, the PCR can attempt to identify complementary sub-projects to make
community's proposal adequate from the geographical standpoint. The UED will confirm with the
Provincial Council this adjustment. The signature of a co-financing agreement by which these
municipalities will contribute to the maintenance costs of the rehabilitated roads (under the first or second
phases of the program) would be a further condition for going ahead with the analysis of the proposed
sub-project.
The sub-projects must have the technical and environmental qualifications specified in the MOP. The
former refer to the construction characteristics of the proposed sub-projects and their functionality within
the road network in the pertinent province or department. The technological characteristics require that the
propose works allow for adequate future maintenance with micro-enterprises and the use of local labor.
- 74 -



Furthermore, the construction and maintenance costs of the proposed sub-projects would have to keep
relation with the expected benefits of the road. As to the functionality, the proposed sub-projects would be
analyzed within the context of the broader transport network and, in particular, of the connection of the
road to market and/or social services centers of the province or department, with the objective of
implementing interconnected "trees" or rural roads and, when necessary, or departmental roads to
maximize the economic, transport and social benefits of the investments. The Project Operational Manual
includes a section on the environmental regulations that must be complied with-as specified in the
pertinent contracts-by the rehabilitation contractors and the maintenance micro-enterprises. All
rehabilitation works will take place within existing rights-of-way and will not entail any displacement of
population or noticeable impact to the natural habitat.
When these technical and environmental conditions are assessed, the PCR proceeds with the analysis of the
data related to the poverty, social and economic conditions of the direct area of influence of the road
sub-projects. The analysis of these data will cover a spectrum of development stages and functional
characteristics of the rural roads, namely: (a) those roads that provide access to rural communities with
prevalence of poverty; (b) those-mostly on the secondary network-that enjoy a certain level of traffic as
they connect areas with recognized economic benefits; and (c) those in between, that connect rural towns
and villages with poverty conditions less stringent than those under the first stage but with limited use by
motorized vehicles (as measured by the number of vehicles per day). These three stages are described
below.
Direct area of influence would include communities around 500 meters to both sides of the road
right-of-way, without considering the most populous city at either end of the road. This consideration
attempts to eliminate the impact that the most populous city, with linkages beyond the proposed road
sub-project, would have in the accounting in benefits without the actual realization of them. In the
description of this Direct Area of Influence a listing of those communities should be provided along with
the social and economic indicators described later to apply the corresponding methodologies. (Indirect
Area of influence would include communities around a 10 km band along the road-5 km to each side-
taking information at the district level prorated by the geographic square kilometers delimitated by that
band. This infornation would be collected in order to ascertain the broader number of people that would
be affected by the investments.)
Sub-projects in a first stage of development: the poverty threshold. In areas with a high prevalence of
poverty, the proposed sub-projects would be analyzed on the basis of poverty (social) considerations.
When a sub-project entails a total cost and a cost per beneficiary below certain thresholds (US$250,000
per project and US$100 per beneficiary), these sub-projects will be evaluated under a social criteria related
to infant mortality rates (with the threshold set at 80) and unsatisfied basic needs of the area of influence
(with the threshold set at 70%), prorated on the basis of population. These thresholds were set on the basis
of the experience of the sub-projects undertaken in the successful first phase of the program. They ensure
that sub-projects in poor communities that attempt to enhance at low cost their accessibility to social
services are approved on the basis of access improvement regardless of the ultimate impact on the potential
increase in agricultural, pecuniary or other economic production. When the minimum thresholds are not
met, the sub-project had then to be analyzed following any of the other approaches, as listed below.
- 75 -



More advanced stage of development: the economic threshold based on benefits to vehicle operating
costs. In those proposed roads where motorized traffic volumes are higher than 30 vehicles per day, an
economic analysis would be undertaken on the basis of comparison of the rehabilitation and maintenance
costs with the benefits derived from savings in vehicle operating costs, following the application of the
Road Economic Development (RED) model developed by the World Bank (on the basis of the HDM
program). This methodology is expected to be largely applied to segments of the primary and secondary
network that may be identified as critical to allow the connection with or among networks of rural roads.
The RED Model has been developed to improve the decision-making process for the development and
maintenance of low-volume rural roads. The model performs an economic evaluation of road investments
options using the consumer surplus approach and is customized to the characteristics and needs of
low-volume roads such as the high uncertainty of the assessment of the model inputs, particularly the
traffic and condition of unpaved roads, the importance of vehicle speeds for model validation, and the need
to clearly define all accrued benefits. RED computes benefits for motorized traffic, and takes into account
changes in road length, condition, geometry, type, accidents, and days per year when the passage of
vehicles is further disrupted by a highly deteriorated road condition (wet season). The model also allows
users to add other benefits, such as those that may accrue to non-motorized traffic, if computed separately.
Further details on the measurement of the variables required for the application of the RED model are
included in the Project Operational Manual.
Intermediate stage of development: accounting for benefits in agricultural and livestock production
(producers' surplus approach). For the rest of the cases, the producers' surplus approach would be
applied. This approach relates the rehabilitation and maintenance costs of a sub-project with the benefits
that the sub-project would bring in terms of increases in net agricultural and livestock production (net of
local consumption and production costs). This methodology entails the definition of certain assumptions
about future increases in agricultural and livestock production and productivity as a consequence of the
rehabilitation of rural roads. These assumptions built on the experience of the first phase and the results of
the impact survey. A benchmark of 10% was establish as the minimum economic rate of return for a
project to be eligible. When a sub-project does not meet these criteria, it should be either discarded or
reformulated. ;
The impact survey showed a noticeable increase in the benefits derived from better access to social services
(particularly, health) and the better opportunities for social interrelations, through the percentage of trips
related to these benefits in the impact survey amounts to about 40 percent (while those for labor and
economic activities amount to 54%). These benefits originate from the reduction in travel times, as access
to health and education facilities or to other friend and families is facilitated.
The economic analysis methodology will incorporate specific assumptions in relation to future increases in
agricultural and livestock production as a consequence of the rehabilitation of rural roads. These
assumptions are in line with the results of the impact survey, though they reflect the hypothesis (still to be
proved) that net production benefits as a consequence of improvements in accessibility require a reasonable
time frame to be realized. The following conservative assumptions have been adopted for the analysis of
sub-projects in the second phase of the RRP: (a) an increase of 7.5% in the number of livestock (to take
place in year 3), though maintaining the same level of net benefits per unit of livestock; (b) an increase of
5% (to take place in year 3) in the overall agricultural area for the key agricultural products in the area of
influence of the subproject; and (c) a decrease of 5% in the costs of production for either agricultural or
livestock-related products (to take place in year 3). No adjustments would be made to the agricultural
yields or to farm gate prices.
- 76 -



On the basis of these assumptions, the producers' surplus approach was applied to a representative sample
of 36 sub-projects completed under the first phase (representing about 20% of the investments in the
rehabilitation of rural roads and in the number of kilometers rehabilitated). In the application of this
approach, adjustments were made to better reflect the prevailing values for production in the rural areas of
the Peruvian Sierra as reported by the Agricultural and Livestock Census of 1994. (This Census provides
information on the number of rural inhabitants of the provinces in the Peruvian Sierra and the production of
agricultural products and the raising of livestock.) On the basis of this infornation, production and
productivity ratios were obtained and applied to adjust the values reported in the relevant studies. The
results of the analysis yield a prorated (by the cost of the investments) economic rate of return (ERR) of
25% and a net present value (NPV) of US$20 million, or about US$1 per US$ invested in the rehabilitation
of those roads. Two of the 36 sub-projects complied with the poverty thresholds and 30 percent presented
ERR less than the required minimum of 10%. (These sub-projects however did show positive NPVs at the
10% discount rate when the assumptions established at the beginning of the first phase are held.) The
application of the average NPV per US$ invested to the expected targets of the second phase yields an NPV
of almost US$50 million for the project's rehabilitation component. Table 2 shows the results of the
analysis.
The combined NPV of the representative sample of sub-projects would remain positive even if,
independently, the area of production does not increase (though the number of sub-projects with positive
NPVs would be reduced to only 12%) or if livestock production does not increase or if no reductions take
place in production costs (with an increase to 44% in the number of cases with negative NPV at a 10%
discount rate). On the contrary, if productivity (yields) were to increase by 10% (in year 3) all the
sub-projects except one would present ERRs greater than 10% and the overall combined ERR would
increase to 48%. With the initial assumptions, in the event that the costs of road rehabilitation and
maintenance had increased by 20%, the NPV and the ERR for that representative sample of sub-projects
would have been reduced to US$16 million and 20%, respectively.
T1he results of the analysis were obtained after taking into consideration to the extent possible the results of
the impact survey. They must be seen with some caution as the reliability of the information regarding the
values for the variables related to production and productivity in rural areas from the initial socio-economic
studies was low (though they were adjusted through their comparison with the latest agricultural and
livestock census of 1994) and the results of the impact survey appears not to have captured the possible
longer-term changes in agricultural production. The results of the impact survey for the first phase of the
program has shown the apparent paradox that significant improvements in the conditions of travel, from
reductions in travel times and distances to enhancements in the provision of transport services have
accompanied improvements in access to certain social services but have not yet translated into more
specific economic benefits (such as noticeable improvements in agricultural productivity or in general
agricultural production). The hypothetical explanation is that the impacts from investments in transport
infrastructure, such as rural roads, may take time before they translate into noticeable effects on income
growth and human development. The second phase of the program will attempt to gain more definite
answers in this respect. The enhancement of the project monitoring system and the systematic application
of impact surveys shall allow the methodical measurement of the benefits of sub-projects before and after
their implementation and the comparison of those benefits to control areas of similar socio-economic
characteristics.
- 77 -



Table 2. Key Economic and Cost Variables for Representative Sample of First Phase Sub-Projects
No.                                          Co-to       Co.M.                        NPV
No.      bener.    C.0t r,b.    Co.. noheb.   Inoesion                .n.I.                  (US$S000)
Nobn,. proysolo                           Depen-emento   No. kn-        5.1.    pen kn,           USS            US$Skm,       po., b-n.   USS/km          ERR           @10%
P-M.01  Paeco-Co)p.r.co.-Allp.o.he        Ans..h                62.5      3,463         55       S1,01 0,404        $16,156         $304       $1,566        010%             (3346)
P-ot. CIShan-Cori--loeIlen /Sooone-Hoa)-Afloh                   03.3      4,248        4        S1,031,948          $11,065         $296       $1,200        <10%             ($554)
H.q,. y Men.                              Ap.6.sac              31.3    11,999        383         $427,445          $ i3,656          $36      $1.200          23%             $236
C..inc.h(h.-Ch.(ho.nOlCe,in.h,h..-Ch., Apur,i.c                 74.8      6,499       114         $90001 65         $1 3,097        $133       $1,200          10%            ($216)
Oo-asb- , On H).. ..s.cana               Ap.nl-se              4069    29,322       604           $619,942         $93,619           $26      $1,200        050%            $1,542
Canmin  V.di.l T(n)ey.Lu-re               Apninl-c               6.0        662         97        $100,501          $14,756         $1s2       $1,200          21%              S42
C-1-no V.dinln  Ch .o.pen.e-Sonay.        Ap,odi,n               5.7        395         69          $60,660         510.659         S154       $1,200          19%              $22
C-mino Vec na Chey-.S-0y.a               Ap-nlm-              10.7        409         38        $120,166          $11,273         $294       $1,200          11%               $4
PoOenarLeraro.(e                          AyacJo                20 5      2,040       124         $306,050          S15.000         $121       $1,200          13%              $31
C- 1an. - H..c-huiii                      Ayo-oh.o              04.2      2,900         52        $466,052           $8,631         $269       $1,000          10%             ($77)
Pe)p,.Sen,mete.OoeOe-Lesernma)            AyO.-0h0              74.6      3,367        45         $616,362           $8,290         $269       $1,200        '10%             ($144)
Cenneera (Chota-La Palms-Chd s) Qoe-o C.Ja--ece                 23.9      9.960       416         $275,683          $11,559           $41      01.200          50%             $58O
Ca--are- Se  Peblo                        Caje...rca           120.7    17,702        147        $1,741,149         $14,424         $116       $1,200          22%             $787
Co(era.o,Soco)aSot.2t--Sao Lul. d. Luom Ceemer- a               66.7    10,934        164         $582,354           $8,720           576      51,200         29%             5462
Colqoepa)a.Peonoertennba                  C....                 25.6        400        16         3297,169          $11,606         $743         $7120        10%              ($30)
Y-rleqo..  Hu-anoquiWe                    Co-co                 30.9      6,996       292         $422,502          613.695           $60      S1 200          27%             $307
Canr-lWse loCooh.c.- C-oop.t.             CusCO                 13 2      7.026       530         $165,964          312.529           S365    $1200          000%              $490
Ch.q i..h.ane . Aomayo                    C-oc                  62.6      6,664       110         $546,101           $6,730         $126       $1,200         39%             $779
Empisple Rote 101-H-Uh- H-Orb-b  Hu....an   e-.lc.              26.0      8.917       343         $217,742           96,370           $24      $1,200        050%            $S60
Pelc.eTenlMne                             H-c-naoelice          24,9      1,047        42         $261,063          $10.4466        $200       $1,200        010%              ($51)
P.loe-Arme-A,eho-Ch.p,m--oa               Hu.ae-ei..            57.9      1,944        34         S661,807          911,436         9340       $1,000        c10%             (9172)
Crenelene Fgueas.,- Ye-umeyo - Ch081-  H-unoso                  33.9      1,567        46         5476,297          $14,062         9304       $1,200        010%            (9126)
Tomay KOhse .Conh..     mer Ha Huoeuco                          tS 0      2,175       145          $369.105         524.407         $160       S1t172          28%             $277
Lidli.t.mbo.Poh..                        H0.0.00                24.0      7,292       304         $516,616          $21,511           $71      91,200          17%             $132
S.pe1-ng,.-H..yo...h)-Vieque-Chupono-l Juni,                    82,1    17,176        209        91,006,399         912,200           S65      $1,373          42%           91,077
M.a.mr,y.LI.yIPa                          J-fl                  10,9      2.345       216         $114,197          $10,020           $49      S1.200        >50%              $378
S.llpo.Co-I,i)el-L)ey,I.-Cepir            Jonrn                 27.6    12,617        450         $504,472          $10,179          940       $1,200        050%            $2,654
Vitoo.Mo-ob-mbe                           J-nfn                 26.2      2,913        111         $332,209         $12,704          9114      $1,200          19%             S113
PI..Maldo-edo-lni,efn                     Medne d. Di..         24 0        676        37         3462,660          $20,111         $551       $1,200        010%            ($136)
L.J.y.-Chonl.                             M.d,e d. Dio.         86,         635        73         $137,845          $15,754         $217       $1,200          10%               $2
Mee-Oo.P-ent. M-oooo-P..qoirl-Ho-pethl M-d,. de Di),            25,9      5,944       230         $634,532          $24,537         $107       $1,200          10%               $9
P.11-nohe-ra.SeA, Aned. T08i GoySIrlIq. P.eco                  117.4      5,965        51        $1,799,737         915,315         S302       S1.200        012%             ($277)
O..psmpe-CSonh-tOmb-.Abna S.. G.os, Pee-o                       69 0    35,415        513        $1,057,810         $15,324           $30      $1,200        050%            $7,257
Calepui.-Nia.I-Lero.-Jo.e D. Choqenoh  Puna                     52 9    16,392        310         $623,066          $11,600           $38      $1,200          27%             $458
Y...l.qas. Huoeoqltie                      P.o.                 30.0      8.996       300         $396,559          $13,285           $60      $1,200        050%            $1,529
Panoma)eCrooeno.Culremi e   vIeI -Ph-ent. P-no                  63.3    16,564        235         9973,576          $11,665          950       $1,200          46%           31.747
To).)   1,562.7   261,377        180      $20,341,942          $13,017           $82    $42,621           25%          $20,271
Summary of benefits and costs:
As explained above, benefits from rural roads are multidimensional and are reflected in the described
methodology through a proposed series of steps that attempt to capture social, poverty-related and
economic impacts. These steps include a participatory process, a methodology for the distribution of
resources among the 12 departments and their provinces largely on the basis of poverty indicators, and, for
those sub-projects in areas of more advanced stages of development, the application of producers' or
consumers' surplus approaches. The latter include the benefits derive, in one case, from net increases in
agricultural and livestock production, and in another case, from net savings in the operating costs of
motorized traffic. In these cases, the costs include those related to the rehabilitation of the rural roads and
to their maintenance through micro-enterprises.
Main Assumptions:
For the application of the producers' surplus approach, the economic analysis methodology incorporates
specific assumptions in relation to future increases in agricultural and livestock production as a
- 78 -



consequence of the rehabilitation of rural roads. In line with the results of the impact survey, the following
assumptions would be taken into account: (a) an increase of 7.5% in the number of livestock (to take place
in year 3), maintaining the same level of net benefits per unit of livestock; (b) an increase of 5% (to take
place in year 3) in the overall agricultural area for the key agricultural products in the area of influence of
the subproject; and (c) a decrease of 5% in the costs of production for either agricultural or
livestock-related products (to take place in year 3). No adjustments would be made to the agricultural
yields or to farm gate prices. In the case of the application of the consumers' surplus approach to those
cases where motorized traffic is expected to be higher than 30 vehicles per day, the main assumptions is an
average annual increase in traffic of 3%. Taxes (IGV) are subtracted from the values of benefits and costs
to generate their economic values.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Not applicable
World Development Report 2000, page 91.
The application of the methodology follows the same steps as the one used during the first phase: (a) calculation of the
number of hectares cultivated in the direct area of influence of the road for the five major agricultural products as well as the
production of livestock and milk if this production is of significance in that area; (b) definition of the percentage of the
production that stays in the area for local consumption; (c) quantification of the production of agricultural and
livestock-related products; (d) definition of the sales prices for those products; (e) estimation of the rehabilitation costs of the
road and of the future routine maintenance costs, including any possible environmental-mitigation costs; and (f) application
of the corresponding conversion factors (to account for taxes-IGV-and the abundance of unskilled labor). The values
would be inputted into a spreadsheet model within which the specific assumptions related changes in production would be
pre-defined and the various net flows and calculations for the ERR and NPV would be modelled.
- 79 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  j Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           4.7       29.0       33.0       31.4       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            10.6       12.8      13.8       14.7        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         15.3       41.8       46.8       46.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     1.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             16.3       41.8       46.8      46.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   3.9       14.5      16.1       15.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                8.5        9.9       10.3       10.8       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        2.9        4.3        4.3       0.0       0.0
Co-financierslDB           3.9       14.5      16.1       15.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
Beneficiaries fees (*)     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     7.8       29.0       32.2       31.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4    Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       13.8       13.8      13.8
Total Project Costs         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       13.8      13.8       13.8
Front-end fee    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       13.8      13.8       13.8
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        13.8      13.8      13.8
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        9.5       9.5        9.5
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        4.3       4.3        4.3
Co-financierslDB          0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Beneficiaries fees (*)    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       13.8      13.8       13.8
(*) In-kind (labor) contributions by beneficiaries for rehabilitation and maintenance of NMT tracks.
- 80 -



Main assumptions:
Municipalities' contribution to routine maintenance range from 50.0% in 2001 to 66.7% in 2004.
- 81 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A). Works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Although not expected
because of the rather small size of the works financed under the project, works estimated to cost more than
US$3,000,000 or more will be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Participation of contractors from countries outside the region in
NCB and ICB is very unlikely. However, the procurement advertisements and the bidding documents, will
clearly state that participation of foreign firms from any country eligible under the Bank guidelines is not
precluded, and that the financing will be secured by the Bank loan. In the event that the bidder who has
submitted the lowest evaluated bid is from a country not eligible under IDB, the Bank will authorize an
increase in the pari-passu established under the respective loan category in order to cover IDB's portion
and meet the expenditures incurred in respect of that contract. IDB will authorize a similar increase in
respect of other contracts eligible under IDB guidelines until the balance is reestablished. Works estimated
to cost less than US$3,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured following National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. It is anticipated that about US$60 million will be
procured under NCB procedures, with contracts ranging from US$200,000 to US$1.5 million. The use of
standard bidding documents and standard contract forms satisfactory to the Bank will be agreed upon
during negotiations.
Procurement of small works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$57.7 million
may be done through direct contracting with Road Committees, which are a recognized entity formed by
members of a community to support implementation of a specific investment in their area, and
micro-enterprises for road maintenance developed under the project. This procurement modality would
allow poor rural communities to directly manage small investments (and make the required 20 percent
contribution to the work under the non-motorized rural transport component work through partial donation
of unskilled labor) and take an active role in maintaining their road infrastructure. The contracting of each
work would be supported by a technical proposal with its budget (expediente tecnico). PCR will establish a
system of standard regional unit prices to guide both the budgeting of the works and review of contracts
under direct contracting. PCR inspectors or the consultants engaged to supervise the work programs in a
project area will provide monthly certificates and a final certificate at completion of the works (actas
mensuales-acta de recepci6n), which will specify the works completed and expenditure incurred, as a
proof of successful execution of the work and justification for reimbursement by the Special Account.
Model agreements have been incorporated into the Project Operational Manual.
Subject to approval by IDB and the Bank, periodic maintenance works: (i) estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent and US$3,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, (ii) of an equipment-intensive
nature; and (iii) to be performed in accordance with the technical standards set up in the Project
Operational Manual, may be carried out through direct contracting with Provincial Municipalities or
associations of municipalities, procured through force account procedures satisfactory to the banks. The
total cost of these force account packages will be determined on the basis of pre-agreed schedules of costs
per activity.
Consultants will be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines:
- 82 -



Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published by the Bank in January
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999". Table Al shows the selection arrangements. The
services include studies, engineering designs, construction supervision, technical assistance, training
courses and auditing services. By and large, they will be provided by local firms and individuals.
For the kind of skills and field presence needed, and to reach scale while maintaining a strong poverty
focus, the coordination of the Local Development Window will be entrusted to an NGO with an established
reputation in working with communities and micro-enterprises in rural areas, and capable of operating in a
highly decentralized manner in the whole project area. Single source selection will be applied for these
services under contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000.
Procurement Capacity Assessment. A recent capacity assessment, approved by the RPA, has
demonstrated that PCR's procurement system is comprehensive and covers all aspects related to
procurement of works and selection of consultants. Procurement procedures and guidelines are established
in the Project Operational Manual agreed with IDB and the Bank. Given the small scale of the project
works and the project's support to strengthening small local contractors, the preferred method of
procurement during the fist phase was Limited Local Competitive Bidding (where works estimated to cost
US$250,000 equivalent or less were procured under fixed-price contracts awarded publicly on the basis of
quotations obtained from five local contractors registered with PCR). Nevertheless, PCR also
demonstrated capacity to procure civil works contracts through International Competitive Bidding
procedures (about 500 km of departmental roads were awarded through ICB procedures). The proposed
follow-on project would mostly rely on National Competitive Bidding, as the number of local contractors
has grown substantially and NCB is more suitable for the municipal environment PCR' central unit is
adequately staffed with trained procurement, planning, scheduling and cost estimating personnel. The
procurement system is computerized and consolidates information sent by regional offices and field
supervisors. Every six months, independent auditors acceptable to IDB and the Bank conduct a
performance audit of the project, examining a sample of sub-projects under execution, procurement
procedures and contract administration practices applied by PCR. There is also an internal control unit
within MTC that performs procurement reviews on a regular basis. The general quality of procurement
documentation produced by PCR is satisfactory. However, there is scope for improvement in some areas,
namely: i) reducing the level of discretion exercised by PCR headquarters in nominating contractors and
consultants invited to submit bids or proposals. The use of NCB would avoid this problem; ii)
decentralizing to field units the procurement of small works and services, which entails strengthening field
units staff; iii) restoring the 20-day standard for payment of services and works which PCR applied until
September 1999. At present, work certificates are generally paid within 40 days of their submission to
PCR (and even later) to accommodate MEF's monthly expenditure authorizations. PCR expects to restore
the 20 day-standard during the second phase; and iv) improving procurement scheduling and packaging.
Greater effort would be placed in aligning project activities with the most appropriate season so as to
increase the productivity of consultant services and construction works, and enhance the social impact of
those activities.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B). For civil works, all bidding packages of US$1.0 million or higher will
be subject to prior review of advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract award; they will
be handled directly by PCR's central office. The first two NCB bidding packages and all direct contracts
with municipalities, irrespective of the amount, will also be subject to prior review. For consulting firms,
services estimated to cost US$100,000 or higher, as well as all single-source assignments, will be subject to
prior review of contracts, terms of reference, and selection procedures; for individual consultants, services
of US$50,000 or higher will be subject to prior review. For consultant services under the above limits only
the terms of reference will be subject to prior review. The Project Operational Manual includes terms of
- 83 -



reference for pre-investment studies (socio-economic analysis and engineering) and work supervision.
Although the level of prior review would be low (about 13 percent for civil works and about 25 percent for
consultant services), it would be compensated for in several ways: (i) external auditors will conduct
performance audits every six months on a sample of sub-projects satisfactory to the Bank and IDB. These
performance audits will cover technical, environmental, procurement and management aspects; (ii) the
project information and monitoring system , would be used to compare costs of similar sub-projects within
an executing unit and among units in order to detect possible discrepancies which might indicate
procurement problems and the need for further analysis. Accuracy of the data in the project information
system will be checked through the audits; and (iii) Bank and IDB supervision missions will conduct
random reviews, including frequent field visits and reviews of procurement documentation. It is anticipated
that the IDB local office will play a key role in this regard.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
ProureentMethod'
Expenditure Category            ICB           0NCB           Other         N.F.0   Toa ICost
1. Works                            0.00            60.65         57.50         0.00       118.15
__ _ __ _  (0.00)    (25.65)        (16.30)       (0.00)     (41.95)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
__ ___ _  (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          17.85         0.00        17.85
(0.00)          (0.00)        (7.55)       (0.00)      (7.55)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          0.00          14.00       14.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00            0.00           1.00         0.00        1.00
(0.00)          (0.00         (0.50)(00)                0.)
Total                            0.00            60.65         76.35         14.00      151.00
(0.00)         (25.65)       (24.35)       (0.00)      (50.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works to be procured through direct contracting with conmmunity-based organizations and
municipalities, consulting services, training and technical assistance services.
- 84 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection M.tod
~9su#nt S.rvk
Expendtture Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB     LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               8.51    3.71    0.00    0.00     1.29    0.72    0.00      14.23
(3.60)   (1.57)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.55)   (0.30)  (0.00)   (6.02)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    3.62    0.00      3.62
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (1.53)  (0.00)   (1.53)
Total  8.51    3.71    0.00    0.00      1.29    4.34    0.00     17.85
(3.60)  (1.57)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.55)  (1.83)  (0.00)   (7.55)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of Firms under Single Source and Selection of individual consultants (per
Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 85 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1
Cotact Vlue                                   Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Pr0cwrement             Prior Review
i*editure C4tegry        (US$ thousands)              Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                     >3,000,000                 ICB                     All / 0
> 1,000                  NCB                   All / 12.0
> 50                    NCB              First 2 Contracts /0.5
<50            Other: Direct Contracting      None / 0
with community-based
organizations
<50            Other: Direct Contracting      All / 3.0
____________________       with Municipalities
2. Goods
3. Services
Firms and Individuals
Firms                           >100               QCBS, QBS, CQ               All / 3,73
<100              Other-Single Source         All /0.73
<100                     All              Terms of Reference
Individuals                     >50                     Other                   All /0
<50                    Other               Terms of Reference
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$20 million
equivalent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 86 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of loan Proceeds (Table C). Table C sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Bank loan, the allocation of the amounts of the loan to each category and the percentage of
financing in each category. Retroactive financing not exceeding US$5 million would be provided for
eligible expenditure incurred after January 1, 2001.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$mllHion          Financing Percentage
CIVIL WORKS                                32.17                         50%
(1) Rehabilitation of Roads and NM
Tracks and Periodic Maintenance of
Roads
(2) Maintenance Works Performed by         1.50                          50%
Municipalities under Account
Procedures
(3) Routine Maintenance                    5.22           20.0% of expenditures incurred prior to
December 31, 2002, and 15% thereafter
CONSULTANT SERVICES                        4.00                          50%
(4) Pre-investment Studies, Supervision
Performance Audits, Impact Studies
(5) Institutional Strengthening and        3.32                          50%
Training
(6) Unallocated                            3.29
Total Project Costs                        49.50
Front-end fee         0.50
Total                                      50.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be based on full documentation for all eligible expenditures. The use of Statement of
Expenditure (SOEs) will be permitted for withdrawal from the loan account in respect of expenditures for:
(i) contracts for works estimated to cost less than US$1,000,000; (ii) periodic maintenance works procured
through force account procedures with Municipalities; (iii) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms and individuals costing less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively; and (iv)
training activities. It is anticipated that the project will develop its reporting system to move to PMR based
disbursement within 6 months of effectiveness. Supporting documentation for all project expenditures,
including those supporting disbursement application, would be retained by PCR for Bank and auditors
review for at least one fiscal year after the year in which the last disbursement takes place.
Special account:
A special account of up to US$4 mnillion will be opened in a conimercial bank under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The Authorized Allocation will be limited to US$1 million until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments is equal to or exceed
US$5 million. PCR will control the use of the Special Account and be responsible for preparing the
disbursement requests on behalf of the Borrower. When disbursements will be based on PMRs, the limit of
- 87 -



the authorized allocation will be US$8.5 million. The PMR will be submitted quarterly and will include a
cash forecast for a six-month period.
Local Currency Account. In addition to the Special Account in US Dollars, PCR will use a local currency
account. Agreement was reached at project negotiations that the Government will deposit counterpart
funds into PCR's local currency account at the beginning of each month to cover the counterpart funds
needed for all payments anticipated for that month. All project accounts will be managed in accordance
with generally accepted international accounting standards.
- 88 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
ProlectSchedule                                    PitAed                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       16                            20
First Bank mission (identification)              04/18/99                      10/21/99
Appraisal mission departure                      04/10/2000                    10/23/2000
Negotiations                                     07/03/2000                   05/23/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/19/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Transport and Commnunications (Peru) in collaboration with IDB and the World Bank.
Preparation assistance:
MTC - Rural Roads Program Budget (2000-2001)
World Bank Loan 3962-PE and IBRD Loan 901/OC-PE
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jose Luis Irigoyen                Task Team Leader - World Bank
Rodolfo Huici                     Task Team Leader - IDB
Aureho Menendez                   Transport Economist
Elizabeth Dasso                   NGO Coordinator - Social Specialist
Francisco Wulff                   Operations Specialist
David Varela                      Legal Counsel
Paul Sisk                          Financial Management Specialist
Colin Gannon                      Transport Economist
Carlos Emanuel                    Procurement Specialist
Gladys Sakata                     Program Assistant
Vera Vicentini (IDB)              Environmental Specialist
Jacob Greenstein (IDB)            Highway Engineer
Alfonso Tique (IDB)               Highway Engineer
- 89 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
PCR. "Manual de Operaciones del Proyecto " (Electronic File). Revised. 2000.
PCR  "Manual Tecnico de Manrenimiento Rutinario de Caminos Rurales".
PCR. "Manual Tecnico Mejoramiento de Caminos de Herradura"
PCR. "Manual Ambiental".
PCR. "Manual de Reforestaci6n".
IPES. "Guias para la Capacitaci6n en Gesti6n Vial Municipal. 1 - Criterios generales para la gesti6n
vial municipal; 2 - Administracion del Sistema de Gesti6n Vial Municipal; 3 - Elaboraci6n de
Inventarios Viales a nivel distrital; 4 - Formulaci6n del Plan Vial Provincial; 5 - Analisis de la
sostenibilidad de recursos financieros." 1999
CENCA - Tecnoconsult. "Seis Herramientas de Capacitacion para Microempresas: I - Manual basico
de gesti6n empresarial; 2 - Guia para elfortalecimiento de la organizaci6n interna; 3 - Guia para el
fortalecimiento institucional de las Micro-empresas; 4 - Guia para el autodiagn6stico de la gesti6n
empresarial; 5 - Guia para la elaboraci6n de Proyectos de Inversion Social; y 6 - Guia para el
fortalecimiento de losproyectos de inversi6n en ejecuci6 ". August 1999.
MTC. "Reglamento de Jerarquizaci6n Vial". Draft. June 2001
Republica de Peru. "Ley 27181 - Ley General de Transporte y Transito Terrestre". 1999
Republica de Peru. "Ley 23853 - Ley Organica de Municipalidades" September 1984.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Implementation Completion Report on a (First) Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan
3962-PE). Social Development BBL Series. February 2001.
Irigoyen, Jose L., Menendez, Aurelio. "Cost-Benefit Analysis of Rural Road Projects in Peru" 14th IRF
Road World Congress. Paris, June 11 - 15, 2001
Irigoyen, Jose L. "Understanding Poverty Links in the Rural Highlands of Peru - Insights from the Rural
Roads Project". BBL Social Series. February 2001
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the PCR. 2000
C. Other
IADB. PERU - Programa Nacional de Infraestructura Rural de Transporte. Segunda Etapa. Informe de
Proyecto. February 2001
- 90 -



Cuanto. "Economic, Social, Environmental and Institutional Evaluation of the Rural Road Program" July
2000.
Cuanto. "Evaluacion de los Impactos Socio-Econ6micos generados durante lafase de rehabilitaci6n de
los caminos rurales - Estudio de Caso: Kiteni". December 1999
Centro. "Estudio de los Efectos de los Caminos Rurales en las Relaciones de Genero." Final Report.
August 1999.
Escobar, Javier. "Impacto del Proyecto de Caminos Rurales: un Anailisis Complementario ". Mimemo,
October 2000
Ore, Teresa. "El Impacto Socio-Cultural del Programa Caminos de Herradura 1995-2000". 1999
Manoukian, Violeta. "Social Assessment and Participatory Mechanisms: Review and Recommendations".
February 2000
Maximize. "Estudio sobre la capacidad institucional Financiera de los Municipios con el objetivo de
establecer la sostenibilidad del sistema vial de caminos rurales" March 1999
SASE. "Estrategias para crear oportunidades de empleo: Documento Base -III Didlogo para el
Desarollo y Lucha contra la Pobreza ". October 2000
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas. " Un nuevo instrumento defocalizaci6n para la asignaci6n de
recursos destinados a la inversi6n social en el marco de lucha contra la pobreza - Mapa de Pobreza del
Perui, 2000". Diciembre 1999
Foncodes. "Mapa de Pobreza 2000". October 2000
*Including electronic files
- 91 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Arnount in USS Millions                               disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P060499        2000 Indigenous Peoples Developrnent                      5.00       0.00                              0.00       4.95      -0.05       0.00
P062932        2000 PE-HEALTH REFORM PROGRAM                            80.00       0.00                              0.00      27.00       0.00       0.00
P047690        2000 RES. & EXTENSION                                     9.60       0.00                              0.00       9.10      -0.50       0.00
P039086        1999 PEURSANPROPERTYRIGHT                                38.00       0.00                              0.00      21.36       8.63       0.00
P042442        1997 SIERRA NATURAL RES.                                 51 .00      0.00                              0.00      12.97       3.80       0.00
P008037        1997 IRRIG. REHIAB                                       85.00       0.00                              0.00      40.16      35.96      24.16
P008051        1995 LIMA WATER Rehablatflon & Mgt. Proj.               150.00       0.00                              0.00      22.51      22.51       0.00
P008055        1995 PE-PRIMEDUC                                        146.40       0.00                             20.71       6.61      27.33       4.46
Total:      565.00        0.00                            20.71      144.66      97.67      28.61
- 92 -



PERU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1993/94/99         Yanacocha                    20.00    0.00    0.00   80.00    9.00    0.00    0.00   36.00
1998/01            agroguayabito                 2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.69    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Agrokasa                       6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Alicorp                      20.00    0.00   20.00   20.00   20.00    0.00   20.00   20.00
1979/83/90/93      Buenaventura                  0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.00    0.00
1997               Interbank-Peru               20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Laredo                        10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1998               Latino Leasing                10.00    2.50    0.00    0.00   10.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1999               Milkito                       3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00    3.50    0.00
1984               Minera Regina                  1.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               PPF Cayman                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Paramonga                    22.00    0.00    0.00   20.53   14.18    0.00    0.00   12.35
1994               Peru Prvtzn Fund              0.00   13.89    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.89    0.00    0.00
1993/96/00         Quellaveco                    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00
1999               RANSA                         10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               UPC                            7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1982/92/95         Wiese Leasing                 4.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.55    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       136.34    17.37   28.50   120.53   111.21   17.33   28.50   68.35
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998              Wong                             25.00      5.00      0.00    60.00
2000              CAMSA                             2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2001              Inka Terra                        8.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              Peru OEH                         10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       45.00      5.00      0.00     60.00
- 93 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PERU: SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              America   middle.
Peru   & Carlb.   Income        Development dlamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                          25.2        509      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$1                      2,350      3,840      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         59.3      1.955      2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (l1.7                                                     1,5        1.1
Labor force t%1                                           2.6        2.5        1.2      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993.99)                                    capita           .            enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national poverty line)       41
Urban population (% of total population)                   72         75        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           69         70         69
Infant mortalltY (per 1.000 live births)                   40         31        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                  a          8         15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)          80         75         86
Illiteracy (%of popu/ation age 15+)                        10         12        16
Gross primary enrollment f% of sc1ool-ege population)     123        113       114             Peru
Male                                                     ..         ..       114                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                   ..         ..       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                              15,5     28.6       62.7       57.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  21.7      20.7       24.3       21.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP              27.7      12.4       12.0       13.6                      Trade
Gross domestic savin,qsGDP                     30.3      20.8       19.5       19.9
Gross national savings/GDP                        ..       ..       18.3       18.2
Current account balance/GDP                      4.7     -0.8        -6.0      -3.6      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                           317       0.5        1.8        2.4      Domes                         Investment
Total debt/GOP                                  59.6     64.9       51.6       56.5      Savigs
Total debt service/exports                      33.8      8.9       27.4       26.2
Present value of debtGDP                          ..       ..       53.5
Present value of debt/exports                     ..       ..      374.8          -
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      199*       1999   1999.03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    0.5       4.3     -0.5         1.4       5.3          -Peru
GNP per capita                        -2.3       3.3     -2.4        -0.8       3.5            -   Lower-middle-income group
Exports of ooods and services         -1.8       7.3      3.3        7.4        7,0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP 1%)
(% of GDP)                                                                               30
Agriculture                                     11.7      8.0        7.1        7.2
Industrv                                       42.8      36.2       36.8       37.3     15
Manufacturing                                 23.5     25.3       23.1       23.7        _       _      _      _        _
Services                                       45.5      55.8       56.1       55.5       o-
I 94   95   sre   97      9Y 9
Private consumption                            61.0      68.7       71.6       71.1    -151
General qovernment consumDtion                   8.6     10.5        8.9        9.0                   G01         _ GP
Imports of goods and services                   19.1     12.3       16.7       15.5                                             J
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth ofexporta and Imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      2.8      4.5         0.4      12.9     30      4
Industry                                         0.3      5.5        -0.3       0.0    20
Manufacturing                                  0.3       3.7       -3.6       0.3      10
Services                                         0.2      3.6        -0.7       0.9
Private consumption                              2.5      2.4        -0.4       0.8             94   95   96   97   a9   99
General government consumption                   1.2      2.3         1.8       3.2                                           _
Gross domestic investment                       -2.5      8.9        -1.3     -11.9    -20 .                                  V
Imoorts of goods and services                   -2.9      9.7        0.1      -17.3             -Expnr9s           * Impnrts
Gross national product                          -0.1      5.1        -0.7       1.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-group averaqe. If data are missino, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 94 -



Peru
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  60
(% change)
Consumer prices                             64.7  3,398.7       6.0       3.5    40
Implicit GDP deflator                       73.5  2,926.6       6.4       3.8    20
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                ..      ..      14.0      12.8            94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                         ..      ..       1.7       0.0             -GDP deflator 0-   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       .,      -0.7      -2.7
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     199       Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions)
Totalexports(fob)                             ..   3,533      5,735    6,114    10,000
Copper                                       ..    764        779       776
Fishmeal                                     ..    405        392       533     7,5000 
Manufactures                                 ..    989       1,968    1,874                     *   _
Total imports (cil                            ..   2,287      8,200    6,581
Food                                        ..    366        1,146     932      2,500
Fuel and energy                             ..    219         579      629
Capital goods                               ..    801        2,592    2,140          o
93  94  90  96  97  90 98
Export price index (1995=100)                  .      90         83       72
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      82         96       95                 U Exports    * Imports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                       ..    110         86       76
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              4,085    4,369     7,487    7,793      0
Imports of goods and services              2,511    3,429    10,492    8,857
Resource balance                           1,573     940    -3,005   -1,064       2
Net income                                  -966   -1,355    -1,484   -1,635
Net currenttransfers                         123  175   697  669   - Ill  III"'
Current account balance                      730    -240    -3,792   -2,030
Financing items (net)                       418      780      2,786    1,255
Changes in net reserves                   -1,148    -540      1,006      775      a-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    9,982    9,002
Conversion rate (DEC, localDUS$)         2.25E-7  4.02E-3       2.9       3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       9,269   18,582    32,397   32,445
IBRD                                      235    1,085      2,128    2,417                          A: 2,417
IDA                                          0       0          0        0             G:6,187            C: 754
Total debt service                         1,402     407      2,454    2,387                                     2,a47
IBRD                                       31        0        184      249
IDA                                          0       0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            47      121        239
Official creditors                         195     117         61      709
Private creditors                         248       76        620      310         F: 8,268
Foreiqn direct investment                   71      59      1,930    2,068                                  E: 11,972
Portfolio eguity                             0       0        174     -352
World Bank program
Commitments                                171       0         38      390      A- IBRD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                              61        0        271      381      B - IDA    D - Other mulUlaterai  F - Private
Principal repayments                        12       0         64       89      C - IMF                    G - Short-ternm
Net flows                                   49       0        207      291
Interest payments                          19        0        120      166
Net transfers                              31        0         88      125
Development Economics                                                                                             91912000
- 95 -



Additional
Annex 11
The First Phase of the Rural Roads Program
An Economic and Social Impact Assessment
The Project Area. There are huge welfare disparities across Peru, but there is a heavy concentration of
poverty along the most geographically adverse regions, as in the sierra and the selva (Table 1). The
differences in poverty between areas could be due to differences in the characteristics of the households
living in the various areas or to differences in the characteristics of the areas themselves (the latter as a
result of direct geographic effects or of differences between areas in the returns to household
characteristics). Although these welfare disparities can be partly attributed to geography, they are also
related to a significant dispersion in access to infrastructure and other public assets. As the availability of
infrastructure is constrained by geography, the more adverse geographic regions are the ones with less
access to public infrastructure. This has implications for policy design since the larger the area effects the
stronger the rationale for investing in the physical and social infrastructure of poor areas.
Table 1: Population's Poverty Level By Regions Surveyed (%)
(Poverty line criterion)
Total  Northern  Central Southern  Jungle
Highland Highland Highland  Jungle
TOTAL                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Total Poor                 70.1     64.1     65.4     76.7      73.6
1. Extremely Poor        34.6     25.1      25.3     44.8     45.8
2. Not Extremely Poor    35.5      39.0     40.2     31.9      27.8
Not Poor                   29.9     35.9     34.6     23.3      26.4
Source: Cuanto, 2000
The RRP was targeted to investments in the 12 departments that rank among the highest in rural poverty:
Ancash, Apurimac, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cuzco, Huancavelica, Huanuco, Junin, Madre de Dios, Pasco,
Puno and San Martin. Most of the project area encompassed the highlands of Peru, where any rural
intervention can be considered targeting the poor. Nevertheless, within those 12 departments, the project
targeted those regions (districts) with high prevalence of rural poverty, as measured by indicators such as
unsatisfied basic needs or infant mortality rates (Table 2).
Table 2: Main Social Indicators for Project Area - 1995
Indicator          Districts within RRP area
(Averagefor 12 departments)  All  Covered Not cov.
Rural Population (%) ()        54.9   70.2    50.7
Health    Malnutrition Rate    57.9   63.6    56.3
Education  Adult Illiteracy Rate   23.7   30.0    22.0
Student Absenteeism    14.3   16.7    13.7
Housing   Overcrowded housing  32.4   35.3    31.6
Precarious housing   28.4   34.4    26.7
Services   No water in dwelling   72.7   85.0    69.3
No sanitation        79.1   90.1    76.1
No electricity       65.5   79.8    61.6
(2) Percentage of rural population for entire country = 30.2
Source: FONCODES.
Table 2 shows some social and basic needs indicators weighed by population for districts in the project
area benefited and not yet benefited by the RRP during the first phase. The comparison stresses the strong
- 96 -



poverty focus of this first phase. Table 3 gives a snapshot of the project area in terms of number of districts
covered during the first phase of the RRP by poverty level. The RRP has been implemented in about 314
municipalities. Half of these municipalities fall within the category of "very poor", 32 percent of "poor",
10 percent of "extreme poor", and 8 percent of "non poor" (that is, 92% of the districts within which roads
were rehabilitated under the RRP present high rural poverty indicators). In terms of the length of the
network already rehabilitated and the total length in each department, the first phase has covered slightly
above 31 percent of the total rural network for the 12 departments. Most of the rehabilitated rural roads
connect with the district capital cities and with other rural and secondary roads, with a small percentage
connecting directly to the primary (national) network or paved roads. The proposed follow-on phase will
continue centered on the same 12 departments, where there is ample scope for expansion. This second
phase will deepen the coverage within those districts and provinces already benefited by the first project -in
part to support the achievement of institutional goals--, as well as expand the program to other districts not
yet covered.
Table 3: Districts Covered and Rural Roads Rehabilitated during First Phase of RRP
RegioIs!            Districts Covered by Poverty Level      N° of Districts in Project Area.         Rural Road Network
Departnents       Fair  Poor   Very   Extr.   Total    Total       %          Extreme poor      Total         Rehabilitated
Poor  Poor                      Covered   Total  % covered      (km)         (ion)     (°/)
Northern Highland     1      18     22      0      41       127     32%          2      0%        3,559.00    1,364.78   38.35%
Cajamarca             1      18     22      0      41       127     32%          2      0%        3,559.00    1,364.77   38.35%
Central Highland    16     41      66      1 1    134      484      28%        53     21%       13,138.40    3,843.82   29.26%
Ancash                3      14     30      2      49       166     30%         13     15%        2,590.00    1,236.17   47.73%
Huancavelica                 9      17      0      26        93     28%         7       0%        2,485.60     917.59   36.92%
Huanuco               4      2      10      9      25        74     34%        31      29%        1,805.20     795.68   44.08%
Junin                 9      10      6      0      25       123     20%          2      0%        4,847.20     618.35   12.76%
Pasco                        6       3      0       9        28     32%          0                1,410.40     276.03   19.57%
Southern Highland     7     34      56     22    119       405      29%        99      22%       10,127.90    3,136.47   30.97%
Apurimac                     11     18     11      40        80     50%         23     48%        1,855.00     958.93   51.69%
Ayacucho              1      12     17      2      32       109     29%         18     11%        2,782.50     951.20   34.19%
Cusco                 1       6      9      9      25       108      23%        30     30%        2,866.80     683.03   23.83%
Puno                  5      5      12      0      22       108     20%         28      0%        2,623.60     543.31   20.71%
Jungle           1      7      12      0      20       87      23%        12       0%        1,727.60     536.98   31.08%
MadredeDios                   1      2      0       3        10     30%          3      0%         598.00      190.95   31.93%
San Martin            1      6      10      0      17        77     22%         9       0%        1,129.60     346.03   30.63%
TOTAL           25    100    156      33    314       1103     28%       166      20%       28,552.90    8,882.05   31.11%
Percentage          8%    32%    50%    10%   100%
Source: Based on data from FONCODES' Poverty Map, PCR's project records, and DGC's statistics.
Rural Road Accessibility Improvement to Help Reduce Poverty. Improved accessibility is a key
element in the reduction of poverty in rural areas. Table 4 shows the distribution of the about 1,800
districts in Peru, classified by main type of access and poverty category. Does quality of access matter?
- 97 -



The strong correlation between the quality of access to a district municipality and its poverty level is
evident. While it can be argued whether is a cause or its effect, the fact is that poverty is more pronounced
in places that are more remote from market and cities. These same places have the least non-farm income
earning opportunities, the least developed infrastructure and generally poorer access and quality of
schooling.
The importance of rural infrastructure and transport services is reflected in the results of a 2000-household
survey conducted in 2000 to assess the impact of the first phase of the RRP, which are indicative of the
conditions found in about 381 villages in the project area. Table 5 disaggregates the average distance from
sample households to various services by location (geographic domain) and poverty level. Accessibility
has to do with the siting of the facilities and services, and with the mobility made possible by the
availability of both, rural transport infrastructure and means of transport. The table suggests that beyond
the more basic levels of the services (e.g., primary education, local health post), access to important
services such as hospitals, secondary schools and markets entails traveling over relatively large distances.
Table 4: Distribution of Peru's districts by main type of access and poverty level
Quality of                     Level ofpoverty    Ext.                       Very    Poor   Moder  Accept   Total
Access    Type of Access                                  Poor    Poor                                    ate            able
Path                                       24              3              1                                             28
Extremely   Non-motorized track                                 97             33130
Waterway/lake                             30              26                                                            56
Motorized road                             50            400             119              3                            572
Difficult            Airway                                                     2               1                                             3
Railway                                                    3                                                             3
Gravel road                                              121            393              68                            582
Accessible   Paved road                                                         4             204            189              15            412
Avenue                                                                                   10             22              32
Total                                 201             592             718            270             37           1,818
Source: FONCODES 2000, based on information from INEI "Transporte y Comunicaciones en el Peru"
Table 5: Averane Distance from Households to Maio Destinations, bv Geographic Domainl and Household Povertv Level (ksm)
Geographic Domain             Education              Health                                    Basic Servces                                   Tnp distance by Purpose of Trip
Household          Pre-   Prinm.   Sec.             Local   Water   Tele-   Mail  Police  Public Market Agnc.  Judge  Public   Main   Sell   Buy   Visit  Social
Poverty Le,el       Prn.  School School  Hosp.   Post   Source  phone   Post   Post  Transp. Place   Fair                     Registry   Work  Goods Goods  Fan.   Act
TOTA L                      1.1    2.0      6.2    30.2      8.0       1.4    5.4   27.5    15.3    7.1    16.7    10.7        7.1   36.2       0.0   19.5   33.1   39.6   24.7
Extreme Poos                1.2     1.9     6.0    30.7      5.0       1.5    6.1    32.4   20.6       3.8    12.8     S.8     4.3   39.1       5.6   17.4   28.6   35.9   25.9
Other Poor                  1.1     1.5     3.6    22.3      8.8       1.3    6.2    28.6    12.4    7.8    16.5    11.5       4.5    33.7      7.3   20.5   35.3   42.6   26.5
Non Poor                    0.9     2.8     8.6    33.9       9.8      1.4    4.4    22.5    14.4    9.3    19.6    12.2    12.5   35.9    11.5   22.4   36.9   404   21.2
Northern Highlands          1.4     1.7      1.8    13.3     2.9       0.7     4.3     3.1     4.8    3.1      6.1     7.9     7.1    10.0      7.0   13.0   13.7   21.4   11.4
Extreme Poor                17      2.5     2.2     16.4     3.6       0.7     3.4    4.3      6.1     4.1     6.5    10.2     3.8     4.2      3.6   10.2   10.4   17.4    7.1
Other Poor                  1.7     1.3      1.9     9.4    2.5        0.7     7.1    -        6.5     3.4     7.5     9.5    16.0    10.5      4.5   12.5   12.1   20.9   13.2
Non Poor                    0.3     0.3     1.1    14.1      2.9      0.8      2.6     2.4     3.0     1.3    4.2      5.1     1.6   16.6    12.7   18.6   22.0   25.6   14.0
Central Highlands           1.0     1.8     5.6    32.4      4.4       0.8     6.5   32.4   26.2       4.8   23.5    12.5    11.1    40.2       7.0   21.0   31.6   42.0   23.1
Extreme Poor                1.0     1.3     5.4    32.6      3.7       0.9     8.3   40.1    33.0    3.1    16.3       8.2     6.8    48.0      7.3   22.2   28.0   39.7   23.1
Other Poor                  0.5     1.4     2.7    20.4      2.8       0.8     8.0   28.9   20.2       4.6   23.7    13.3      5.6   42.0       7.1   20.7   29.8   41.2   18.7
Non Poor                    1.5     2.9     7.6    37.5      6.5       0.8     4.6   27.1    24.6      6.8   27.6    18.1    24.2    33.4       6.7   18.6   38.1   44.9   25.1
Southern Highlands          1.0    2.6      9.4    40.1    13.8        1.3     6.0   23.8      7.9     7.8    16.9    10.6     4.0   37.8    10.0   23.6   44.3   45.6   31.1
Extreme Poo,                1.2    2.3      8.7    47.8      7.2       2.0    7.1    20.3      7.4     4.4   14.3      8.7     1.7   35.0       5.5   16.0   37.7   39.2   35.3
Other Poor                  1.0    2.1      5.0    33.5    19.6        1.0    5.7    27.5      2.8   10.1    17.2    111       0.4    16.9      9.3   32.9   52.5   55.4   34.4
Non Poor                    0.6     39    14.9    42.0    14.4         0.3     5.6   26.3      9.9    8.9    18.7    12.6      8.2   43.8    17.1   30.2   44.0   42.1   14.8
Jungle                       1.0     1.4    4.8    30.0       5.4      2.5     3.1    16.1    16.1    12.1   20.6    17.1       7.2   47.8      6.5   12.0   28.5   41.3   30.7
Extreme Poor                0.6     0.6     2.4    21.7      2.3       1.8    1.1    -         4.0     4.2    19.5    -       -       -         4.2    7.3   26.7   45.9    6.9
Other Poor                  1.3     1.0    4.8    22.7       2.3      2.2      3.6   27.5    13.3    10.7   18.6    153        5.9    -         5.9    7.3   28.2   36.4   36.3
Non Poor                    0.9     2.8     6.5    39.0    12.1        3.4     3.5     8.5    19.7   17.9   23.1    18.9       9.8   47.8    10.7   23.8   29.9   44.5   43.8
Source: tnsituto Cunto. Encu,sta Sociecon6mica de Hogares, 2000. The departments included in ewch geographic donam are listed in Table 3
- 98 -



Furthermore, a recent study (see Box 1) analyzed the impact of transaction costs in the commercialization
of potatoes in Huancavelica and their linkage with the quality of access. The study estimated transaction
costs to be around 50 percent of sale prices for producers connected to markets through rural roads, and 60
percent for producers connected through non-motorized tracks. The report concluded that the volume of
sales in the research sample were about 48% lower due to these high transaction costs.
Box I Quality of access and transaction costs in the commercialization of potatoes
* Study Scope. In March 1999, GRADE (Grupo de Analisis para el Desarrollo) perforned a study to measure the
impact of transaction costs in the Peruvian agriculture. The study analyzed transaction costs in the
commercialization of potatoes, the dominant product in the rural Andes, and how they affected producers'
decisions to articulate with markets.
* Study Coverage. The study sample covered about 1400 potato producers in the districts of Pazos y Huaramba,
Province of Tayacaja (Huancavelica) located between 2,500 and 3,500 meters above sea level. On average, the
owner of about 49% of the land where the potatoes are cultivated sell their production in the markets. The
transacton costs measured in the study are classified into (i) information costs (incurred before the transaction
and associated with learning about market products and prices and identifying commercial counterparts), (ii)
negotiation costs (associated with the process of agreeing on the sale terms, paying transaction fees, and preparing
formal/informal contracts), and (iii) monitoring costs (incurred after the transaction and associated with ensuring
compliance with the contract terms, such as quality of goods, payments, etc). Some of the findings are
summaized below.
* Quality of Access and Information. For those connected through NMT tracks, it took on average about 3.4 days to
know the final transaction/sale price, as opposed to about 0.7 days for those conneced through roads. All of
those connected through AMT tracks had to travel to the market to learn about the price, as opposed to about 70%o
of those connected through roads. Less than 20% of those connected through NMf knew the prices prevailing in
Lima, as opposed to about 87% of those connected through roads. While on average 4.6 merchant delaer visited
each producer connected through roads, only on average 0.12 visited those connected through NMT.
*  Negotiation. Only 32% of producers connected through NNT tracks felt they could sell to someone else, against
88% of producers connected through roads. The former negotiated the price on average 1.07 times, against 1.47
times in the case of the latter group. Market prices varied considerably, from 0.45-0.58 S/kg in the local market
to an average 0.75 S./kg in Huancayo (regional market), and 1.01 S./kg in Lima (national market).
* Monitoring. The degree of informality in transactions increases as the quality of access decreases. Only about
55% of the transactions are docwnented for those connected through NMT, against about 79%Jo for those
connected through roads. The number of merchants visited before selling was higher for those connected through
NMT (6.5 against 3.9 for thosc conneced through roads). Establishing a stable and reliable relationships
appeared to be key to reducing monitoring costs and getting lower prices.
* Access Condition and Sale Prices. The data collected in the sample showed that both price per kg and
sale/production rations were higher when the access was in good condition (on average SJ0.47 per kg and 0.76
respectively, against S./0.36 per kg and 0.66 when the access was in poor condition) or travel time from farm to
market were shorter (S./O.48 per kg and 0.75 for trips shorter than 3 hrs. against S./O.38 per keg and 0.66 for trips
longer than 3 hrs.).
Balancing Poverty Targeting and Development Opportunities. The RRP focuses on restoring basic
accessibility conditions through low cost solutions, rather than on improving geometric standards, paving
or building new roads. This strategy was chosen for two reasons. First, road rehabilitation needs are
staggering in Peru due to the extensive deterioration of the unpaved secondary and rural road networks.
This, combined with the low density distribution of the population in rural areas, calls for low cost
investments that can reach remote areas within the justification of cost-effectiveness principles. Secondly,
basic access introduces qualitative changes in the nature of access (threshold effects). Thus, restoring
basic access maximizes impact at the lowest cost.
- 99 -



One of the main principles of a poverty alleviation strategy is the recognition that a sustainable solution for
poverty should rest on income generation. However, the poorest communities are precisely the least able to
generate income mainly because they are isolated from marketplaces. Consequently, a strategy oriented
toward poverty reduction should necessarily seek to establish links between the poorest and the
marketplaces. An effective link between the poor and marketplaces depends mainly on linking rural areas
to urban settlements, where market places are found; not only to big cities (such as department capitals) but
also to second- and third-range cities (province capitals and district capitals, respectively). The importance
of these types of cities arises from the relationships established between them, with the result that the
development of a city is in reality part of the formation of a system of inter-linked cities.
Due to Peru's geographical conditions, urban systems usually form longitudinal corridors, which given
their economic potential may be identified as "economic corridors". Therefore, rural accessibility
improvements under poverty alleviation interventions should balance targeting the very poor with ensuring
their linkage with markets and medium cities that can become engines of growth. The "economic corridors"
located in the Highlands have been the hardest to urbanize. In these corridors, road integration was poor,
many times in both longitudinal and transversal senses. In such conditions, towns and the rural areas
surrounding them stagnated without any marketplace consolidation.
The RRP emphasizes integration with markets and economic centers through rehabilitation of "networks"
of rural roads and key secondary roads that complete their linkage, and of the informal network of
non-motorized paths that reach the poorest villages. Due to the high vulnerability of the rural road
infrastructure, year-round access is possible only if maintenance is provided on a continuous basis
immediately after rehabilitation. Thus, upon completion of the rehabilitation works, the RRP roads were
subject to a continuous maintenance program performed by community-based organizations.
Main Outputs of the First of the RRP
Most of the physical targets set for the first phase of the RRP were surpassed by its end on December 31,
2000, after 5 years of implementation. Almost 8,900 km of rural roads and about 2,400 km of secondary
roads were rehabilitated under the project (18% and 8% more than envisioned at its beginning).
Maintenance with 415 micro-enterprises was applied to almost 11,000 km of roads, generating about 4,700
permanent employment (to be added to the 32,300 employment generated on a non-permanent basis by the
road rehabilitation works). In addition, about 3,500 km of NMT tracks were rehabilitated, doubling the
number expected at the beginning of the program." The project was estimated to benefit directly 2,8
million people in the rural areas of the 12 departments of Peru's Sierra region, and an additional 0,7
million if the population indirectly connected to the rehabilitated roads through NMT tracks is considered.
In all, the project was successful in reestablishing the accessibility conditions and better transport services
to the rural areas in the area of influence of the rehabilitated roads and securing the sustainability of that
accessibility with effective and efficient maintenance with local micro-enterprises. This is a central
achievement, since most often the communities' support for low cost solutions is undermined by the lack of
credibility of ensuing maintenance arrangements. The project was also successful in spurring participatory
methodologies for the definition of priorities and the strengthening of the preparation of transport
development plans at the local level, with a more integrated vision of these plans and increased contribution
of the civil society to achieve this vision. For their interesting social and poverty reduction side effects, the
following paragraphs briefly discuss two innovative components: road maintenance through community
based micro-enterprises and track improvements for non-motorized transport.
- 100 -



Creating Opportunities through Community-based Microenterprises. The RRP has set up a
cost-effective routine maintenance system based on contracting out labor-intensive maintenance works to
micro-enterprises, local cooperatives and other community-based organizations. The difficulties of
ensuring central-government maintenance of a myriad of scattered rural roads, and the failure of traditional
municipal force account works, suggest private-sector involvement in the form of contracts with small road
maintenance micro-enterprises. Box 2 in the main text provides a colorful illustration of the social
dimensions of the micro-enterprise program.
Although the composition of the micro-enterprises varies according to the length of the road, their average
size is about 13 people and the average length of the roads covered unde a conatract is about 34.6 km (an
average of 2.65 km per person). All micro-enterprises have a legal status; most of them are cooperatives
or associations and as such are required to reinvest their profits in businesses undertaken by the
association. So far there are no indications that the different legal status may translate into differences in
their performance or their incentives to jump-start new activities. Micro-enterprises are required to keep
books, pay taxes and submit financial information to Superintendencia Nacional de Administracion
Tributaria (SUNAT). The following paragraphs describe main features of this successful program, the
outcomes achieved so far, and the intended evolution of the program under the second phase of the RRP.
nho are the new (micro) entrepreneurs? Typically, micro-enterprises are made up of 11 to 20 people
living close to the road.. Women participation has been low --on average about 4%, but much larger in
some departments (e.g., Puno and Madre de Dios, about 8% and 21% respectively) reflecting variations in
gender relations. The distribution by age shows 36% between 18-30 years old, 46% between 31-45 years
old, and 18% older than 45. To ensure their sustainability, the selection process has sought a balanced
level of education within each micro-enteTprise: on average 37% of the members have (complete or
incomplete) secondary education, 60% have primary education only and 3% are illiterate. In spite of
suffering the limitations imposed by the rural environment where they live (i.e., lack of basic infrastructure
such as electricity and water and managerial assistance services), they have developed an "entrepreneur
culture": they don't see themselves as working for a salary but rather as an autonomous group that has the
opportunity to capitalize savings through a maintenance contract and undertakes the responsibility for the
problems that may arise in their daily activities. This is a tribute to the selection process and the training
provided by PCR under the RRP, which emphasizes the development of entrepreneur skills. PCR hired
NGOs and social promoters to select the members through competitive examination. The process
considered parameters such as residence close to the road, previous experience in construction activities,
social status (higher scores given to heads of families earning less than S/.300) and a personal interview.
In general, district mayors and community leaders led the convocation which attracted 40 to 60 persons per
mico-enterprise. The promoter provided the initial basic training, followed by Servicio Nacional de
Capacitacion para la Industria de la Construcci6n (SENSICO) and later on, monitors hired by PCR to
extend on-the-job training in engineering, accounting and administration.
Crfteria for Selecting Micro-enterprise Members
Selectn Parameter    Score                  Critera
Residence                3    Closeness to road
Experience               4    Road or construction works
Social situation         3    Unemployment/low income
Education                3    Literacy
Entrepreneurial attitude  4    Business orientation
Personal interview       3    Respect from community; commitment to job.
- 101 -



How are the micro-enterprises financed? The micro-enterprises are engaged through performance-based
contracts with PCR and paid on a monthly basis, subject to meeting the quality standards stipulated in the
contract. Majors approve the monthly certificates. From January 1, 2002 on, municipalities will
contribute to defraying the cost of maintenance.. Micro-enterprise members designate their president and
an executive council, and deternine how the monthly payment is allocated to the various uses (e.g., wages,
tools, rentals, transportation, savings, investment fund). On average, salaries account for 89% of the
expenditure, and profit margins average 14%. Contract payments were revised down in 2001 to reflect
productivity gains and the realignment of maintenance responsibilities under different contract modalities.
Outcome 1: An effective approach to rural road maintenance. Micro-enterprises carry out simple works
--but continuously throughout the year-- to clean ditches and culverts, control the vegetation, maintain the
running surface (filling potholes and ruts, maintaining the surface camber), remove small landslides and
undertake other emergency works. Project micro-enterprises have also demonstrated capacity to build
retaining walls and small bridges and handle El Nifno emergency works under the guidance of PCR. The
contracts are annual, renewable, and based on performance indicators. The micro-enterprise is not a
welfare program but a cost-effective way of keeping in good condition the roads rehabilitated and ensuring
the benefits from improved access will not vanished. The charts below provide an assessment of the
performance of the micro-enterprise system taken from the project impact evaluation study carried out in
2000. The results, presented in terms of road network condition (from very good to very poor) and
reliability of access (highly unsatisfactory to highly satisfactory), are compared to the ones achieved with
the mostly force account arrangements that characterize maintenance activities on similar roads in the
control section.
70                       g                70
*0 microenterprise    03 others'      60E     '
50 6
40                                        40
30                                        30    
20                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20-
0 
VG     G      F      P     VP              HU        U       S       HS
Outcome 2: Generation of long-term direct and indirect employment at the community level. The
program generates direct employment for micro-enterprise members, and indirect for others in community
who are engaged as temporary workers or in complementary productive activities started by the
microenterprises (see below). The micro-enterprise becomes a focal point for community work, as peer
pressure makes its members engage in, and lead communal activities to ensure continuous support from the
community. PCR's micro-enterprise program was selected as one of the innovative and cost-effective
approaches to creating job opportunities in a study commissioned in 2000 by the Secretariat of the
National Dialogue on Poverty. A summary of the results and the conditions for success highlighted by the
study follow:
- 102 -



An Independent Evaluation of the Micro-enterprise Program
Number of ME  398
Direct Employment 4,524
Cost per iob created  US$534
Conditionsfor  *  Appropriate selection of candidates
success  *  Presence of leaders
*  Emphasis on entrepreneurial culture
*  Favorable economic conditions
Source:. SASE "Estrategias para Crear Oportunidades de Empleo ". Iff
Dialogo para el Desarrollo y Lucha Contra la Pobreza. October 2000
Outcome 3: Catalysts for other local development initiatives. The use of micro-enterprises has some
comparative advantages for further developing rural areas. The program creates entrepreneurial capacity
in the community. The micro-enterprises have acted as catalysts for other local development initiatives,
become contact points for extension services, and even mobilized untapped local resources for local
community ventures. So far, about 40 percent of the micro-enterprises have started productive activities,
bringing new services and stimulating labor markets in their communities. Most of these initiatives are
funded by profits generated through the maintenance contract and members' savings, although for certain
productive activities the micro-entrepreneurs were able to obtain credit from suppliers and even
contributions from donor agencies such as GTZ. The productive projects generate benefits that spill over
other community members. The benefits go well-beyond the up-keeping of roads.
Productive Activities by Maintenance Micro-enterprises:
Typical Activities  Transportation services, seedbeds for traditional crops, livestock breeding,
nurseries, reforestation, grocery stores, small transforming businesses, grain mills
Jobs per activity  2 additional people, 92% men, 8% women.
Gross revenue  Between 300 to 20 000 soles/year depending on the sector or industry the busines
generated  belongs to, its maturation, and the associates' expertise
Financing  On average 58% equity by members, 42% credit (but mostly from suppliers, GTi
Source: Cuanto. Economic, Social, Environmental and Institutional Evaluation of the RRP. 2000
These positive results hinge on the micro-enterprise opportunity to access a sustained income stream --
secured through the maintenance contract with PCR, and technical assistance in areas such as accounting,
entrepreneurial skills. However, with an interruption rate estimated at around 22 percent, these results also
show how difficult is to succeed in a rural working environment. The main reasons for interruption range
from insufficient training and technical assistance (about 40%); lack of financing (about 24%); lack of
market (about 20%); and other reasons (16%).
Micro-enterprises under the Second Phase of the RR-P. Building on the experience gained so far, an
on-going study will explore several adjustments to further increase the cost-effectiveness of the
micro-enterprise program and strengthen its long-term sustainability. A first step is the introduction of
different maintenance costs and type of contracts, varying them on the basis of certain road functional and
physical features that determine the intensity of the workload and redefining their scope and compensation
levels to further increase productivity and flexibility to work under the tight resource constraints that
characterize the local government environment. The study will also strengthen monitoring and reporting
systems in response to the stronger accountability lines required by the MCM. Finally, in a second stage
the study will address those sustainability issues discussed in Box 2.
- 103 -



Bo 2- Microetrprse sustaiiaaWyIsust hi_      addrsse under h  ecn  hseo     RRP
* Ma hro lssues (program l%  Involving communities and developing private micro-enterprises
Increases t    ity fr rointnance,dilds   se  ecrand local governments to secure the
contnuiy ofthemainenace pogrm. Te pojec seuresa mrketforthe services of the mcoetrissand
provides cntn s training.    ngenis transferring the program to the
muicipal iron t Thes  tosh an    nent poses a challge to the sustainabiity of the
program as it builds on increasing the revenue beiher thu  local sources or
inter-governmental transfes, to secuemisepms. Unde e new co-financing arrangement.
muniipalities ar required to contribut ab   50pt of the ot
*     Micro        Ct                                     this support might erode with time if the
benefits accrued to xicro-entre    ml o                 t ot. Productive activities
started by the  icoterseatteroniiitvmahepehcescil*sustainability by strengthening
the financial position of temcoeerrssopnnuppotniesfrthr conmnunity residents, anid
faciitating th renewal ofmcoetrrs  ebr ste  eoewa thier owever, the formf of association
(a non-rofit cooperativnde                                             and the way
hr new undertaks ouside t        en   tact e ic nots
S*rengthening S:stainability. An on-going s0tudy will exploreseveralop0tions tdsh oissues.
The options aimed at: ifailitatthe tnroe loca en in          eg,reucg costsb inasin
productivity or scalig dw  thlevelolit wg 
strengthening fth sutiaiiyo  opeetr  rdcieatvte;ii otrn  rae  atcpto by the
mmunity in shigte          f fpt 
cost Of labor in Xt agricu    eti ope in        c     in ororne  m      e is 
with micro-nterprises tenasa                                                           t    or
maagngthirown poutv  ciiis
Improving Tracks for Non-Motorized Transport to Reach the Very Poor. The first phase of the RRP
demonstrated that Non-Motorized Transport (NMT) improvement programs are strategic interventions to
address the transport needs of the most poor, and thus, alleviate rural poverty. In the highlands of Peru,
large communities depend exclusively on tracks and trails to access basic social services and meet their
trade needs. There are many districts where the main access both to their capitals and communities as well
is through NMT tracks and paths (almost 10 percent of the districts in Peru according to Table 4). These
districts and communities are the most isolated and impoverished. Thus, the NMT component benefits
low-income groups disproportionately more than high-income groups, and as a result, income distribution
is regarded as relatively improved with the project. Box 3 summarizes key lessons learned through the
implementation of the pilot under the first phase of the RRP.
Inplementation of the NMT pilot began in five locations in 1997, two years behind schedule. It gained
enormous support from community and government officials, even from those who initially had a lukewarm
view of its potential impact. As a result, the NMT program was extended to rehabilitate about 3,000 km of
non-motorized tracks in 10 departments, reaching more than 520 villages. Communities contributed with
free labor to defray about 20 percent of the total cost.
- 104 -



Box 3: Lessons from Implementing the Pilot on Non Motorized Transport
Particpatoryplanning is ofthe essence to mobilize support andidentify the trackcsfor NMTimprovement. At
a macro level, the demand for this non-motorized trasport improvements has been large, but it may have not
materialized in the absence of consultation with villagers through the participatory workshops held in
1996-1997 Beneficiaries and municipal authorities fully acknowledge the positive outcome of the pilot and the
better servce brought by the impod trcs. However, as noted by some of the NGOs involved in the pilot,
municipal authorities were not aware of the priority of improving NMT tracks prior to the project. At a micro
level, only the communities will be able to set priorities among the ample number of altemative routes that
fulfill similar travel purposes.
Designing cost-effective NMT interventions requires an in-depth understanding of spatial patterns and travel
behaviors at the community level and of the transport marketfor NMT servces. The specific purpose of these
trps trasate ito well-established tavel pater. The ris concents on ceai days of the week, and in
some itineaies they are limited to certai times of the day --during early morning hours or even the night in
ihoe that becus of thir low altitude the weather may become too warm and harmful for peopl and animals.
Nigh traffic implies removing those obstacles that porter animals will not negotiate in the dark. The size of the
infomal network may extend from the  to five hours, to one or two days. As a comunero noted in one of the
field visits, "we need to take our prodts to the various markets in the region, because otherwise we will crowd
the local market and prices will plummet". As trips can take more than one day, improvements may need to
include bWulding tambos, where people can rest and store their goods during th longest tnps. The lack of
common roadside stor  facilities is a maor constraint for the development of an efficient intermnodal transport
system that combines farm-roadside non-motonzed transport with roadside-market motorized transport,
T h7e benefits of NMT improvements are clearly perceived by the communiti, but are extremely dfficult to
quantify. The benefits brought by the program so far include (i) improved safety for both people and porter
ainmals, the most significant factor highlighted by the beneficiaries; (ii) reductions in travel times due to the
removal of obstacles, wich especially favors those who live farther away; and (ni) greater payloads with less
damage to porter animals (which are valuable assets for these oommunities). The combination of the above
induces more and farther multipurpose trips, and promotes increased agriculte and famig production for
commercialization of surpluses. The impact of NMT improvements might be erodd if not done in combination
with interventions to improve mobility along the rural road network that connects to them.
T r5aditional commwuty structures have demonstrated capacity to carry out the works, but maitenance
sustainability remains a concern. Communities fomned the "ComitAs Vlaeia to undertake rehabilitation works
and look after the track afterwards. The Comnittees relied on anecstral structnes to assign on a rotational basis
the daily tasks and wages among workers. As beneficiaries had to contribute with at least 20 percent of the cost,
workers were requred to work for fre during the Sunday fenas, and only those who had participated in the
faenas could undetake paid work. In some cases, committees expanded at their own inidative the targets set
under the contcs. (In Miska, for example, the community rehabilitated 09 kn of tracks at their own cost,
whih represents a 20 pert increase over the contact target and more than IS days of five work).
Communities, when properly organized, can better connect the benefits of improved access with their day-to-day
needs, and even grasp the concept of 'tansport netwok t maximuze impact. Strengthening conmnunity-based
organizations enabled the commumity to jump-start otber development initatives. On the contrawy, the
committees in general have failed to maintain fth improved tracks on a continuous basis, as maintenance work
is not paid for under the project.
The program has helped rebuild social capital (Box 4). Villagers value the technical and organizational
skills acquired through the program. The use of NGOs with established credibility among villagers
enhance side social effects, which often are central to attacking the multidimensional problems behind
poverty.
- 105 -



Rox4.  huldlgSolalCapta InRemteCommunities
()TAR (Qficina T6eirka de ApQyo Rural), an NG() located in Ayacucho, was chosen by PCR to develop the
non-motorizedy componentin Sacsamarca. The region was desolated by more than ten years of political violence.
O R points our that one of the most devastatingaspects of terrorism was the weakening of the communal
ancestral organization,hindering its capacy to lan and carry out "comunity projects". The fonnation of the
nine Com~Ms YiaJ~sRura1e~ (CVP4 to undertake the planning, execution and m c the works for
recablitatio of the n-morized trackssppots this ancestral fonn of organization. T  C     have
demonstrated cpacity to carrut draiage improvements, widen platforms, build retaining walls and small
bridges, and remove obstacles using eiwplosieif n . According to OTAR by reinforcing the ancestral
organizations the (NR  have also ump.started other community projects that were common practice in th past
One of the CVRs is Virge6 de Encarna     who was responsible for carrying out th improvements of about
17 1cm of MT        , track  linking Sacs ca with Colcabarnb and Asca-Palca. The CVR comprises 35
with a.oodrepesentation0 of womenxThetasksperformed by   AR to assistathe communityhin designing the
works andesblishthe        incuded (i)introducing the project objetives and team to local an4 prcial
authorities, throgh  coordination meeting;ii)inspecting the tracks preected by the communia  for
improvement based on local priorities; iin-vitig the whole  mmunity for the orgaiato of the CVR,
toug                               invitation; (iv) selectin the members of the CVP tking into account
thfo                              (technical aspect), the number of communes that are served by the track,
and the number ofworkers in eachdcommune. The selection process assigs quotas by comnnune to ensure
adequate representation (v) organizing the CVR. Villagers democratically appoint members to the CVR,} elect its
auhoitesadicanae(anportant aspect), and approve its charter and oeron procedures. Usually,
electedauthorities invoke  od's guidance in discharging their responsibilities and assume a strong commitment
in front of the community;and()trainingthe CVR im orgizing and delivering the works. All the av tsks
The NMT Component under the Second Phase of the RRP. The proposed project will expand the NMT
improvement program, incorporating the lessons learned through the pilot. As noted in Annex 2, the scope
of the work entrusted to the NGOs engaged in the program would be broadened to enhance the impact of
the planned interventions within the commnunity and build social capital to facilitate cooperation between
community members and more dynamic networks of markets and local institutions. The second phase
would explore options to strengthen the sustainability of these interventions, putting in place more reliable
arrangements for continued track maintenance by the community. Traditionally the only maintenance
performed on most NMT paths is through "minkas" (community work) which is done only once or twice a
year and is obviously insufficient to keep tracks in good condition. The Committees --a sort of a board of
users in charge of carrying out or organizing the works--have generally not been able to mobilize
community resources to undertake track maintenance in a more systematic way as initially expected. The
most frequent reasons for not maintaining the tracks mentioned by the focus groups consulted during the
impact study include the lack of financing (93 percent of responses), the inability of the committee (64
percent), the population's unwillingness to work for free (1 1 percent) and the lack of cooperation from
local government (3.6 percent). Put simple, community tracks do not escape the problems typically
attributed to public goods -that is, although having roads in good condition benefits everyone, nobody is
willing to participate unless everybody else does it or one receives some sort of compensation for the work.
The project will explore how to best engage local governments in organizing and supporting the
community's maintenance work and put in place some incentives for a more systemic response of the
community.
- 106 -



Measuring Impacts to Better Understand Poverty
As part of a series of evaluation studies, PCR hired Cuanto --a think-tank NGO well-known in Peru for its
extensive experience in LSMS studies--to perform a comprehensive assessment of the outcomes of the first
phase of the RRP. The evaluation of the impacts of the RRP was undertaken through a series of
interviews and surveys carried out during the month of March 2000 over a representative sample of roads
and tracks improved by the project and of similar others without interventions from the project (control
areas).2' The study included about two thousand families located in the twelve departments where the
project was implemented. The evaluation measured the possible changes in the values of a variety of
socio-economic and transport-related variables about two years after the completion of the rehabilitation
projects and compared the changes in those conditions between the rehabilitated projects and other similar
rural roads (the control sample) that have not received interventions from the RRP but that may or may not
have had interventions from the government. For the control sample, it was assumed that quantitative
conditions (e.g., production variables) were similar to those in the areas in the project. More details on the
sampling guidelines are given in Box 5. The impact indicators analyzed, and the population's perception as
to the extent or magnitude of the RRP distinct impact items, generally coincide. Table 6 summarizes the
indicators analyzed with the initial hypothesis to be tested and the trends and size of the impacts measured
through the survey.
Box 5: An Econoiic, Soca Environment and Institoal Ztvaduialon of the RP
The SWid Smnple in a Snapshor. The technical guidelines used to compose the sample are summarized below:
- Road Uriverse:                       319 roads for wheeledvehicles
261 non-mtorized tsport tracs/paths
- Random sampling for rehabilitated roads for wheeled veles and imroved bile pats.
- Scope of the study                   Twelve depatme  distributed in four regions.
Northem Highand  =      Cajmanar
Centra Highland   -     Ancash, Huacvelica, Huinuco.
Junin
and Pasco
Southen Highland        Apurimac, Ayacucho, Cuso, Puno
Jungle           m      Madre de Dios, San Martin
Non rndom samplg for control roads and rcks, sample selectebased on "comparability" with samle roads.
- Number of sample roads:                  74 roads forwhied vehicles and 16 bride paths
- Number of control roads:                    74 roads for wheeled vehicles and 16 bridle paths
- Nmber of cmmuities srveyed           381 (at the beginning and at the end of both sample and control
rOad)
-Number of focus groups performed      381 (one in each locaity)
- Average focus group participants:    5 people (including authorities, local leaders, and representative
citizens).
- Nuber of households surveyed:        2,038
- Level Of confidenc of estimates:     92,5%
- Maximum error allowed:               No more than 100%
- Field survey completed in:           March 2000
- 107-



Table 6: RRP Impact Summary
Transportation     Travel time                 Direct   Short          Decrease       High
Traffic rate               Direct   Short           Increase       High
Fare prices                Indirect  Short-Medium   Decrease       Moderate-High
Freight prices             Indirect  Short-Medium   Decrease       High
Road closure               Direct   Short           Decrease       Moderate
Reliability of public Transport Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase  Moderate-High
Access To Public    N0 School Registered Children Indirect  Medium-Long  Increase     Low
Services           N° of Consultations         Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase      Moderate
N° of Judicial Causes      Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase       Null
Productive         Farmed Land Area            Indirect  Medium         Increase      Low
Activities         Land value                 Indirect  Medium          Increase      Null
Productivity               Indirect  Medium         Increase      Null
Livestock ownership        Indirect  Medium         Increase      Moderate
Farm prices                Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase       High
Crop allocation            Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation      Null
Market-oriented produce    Indirect  Medium         Increase       Null
Access to the marketplace  Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase      Moderate
Access to credit           Indirect  Medium-Long  Increase         Low
No and income of com. Estab. Indirect  Medium       Increase       Low
Income structure           Indirect  Medium-Long   Diversification Low
Employment         Type of occupation          Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation      Low
Occupation category        Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation      Null
Productive activity        Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation       Null
Agricultural Day's Wage    Indirect  Medium         Increase       Moderate
Labor Force structure      Indirect  Medium-Long   Variation       Low
Migration          No of migrants              Indirect  Medium-Long   Decrease       Null
N' of retumning migrants   Indirect  Medium-Long  Increase         Low
Poverty            Poverty Levels             Indirect  Long            Decrease      Null
Institutionality   N° of new institutions      Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase      Moderate
Negative Impact
Transportation     N° of traffic accidents    Indirect  Short          Increase       Low
Environment        Use of soils               Indirect  Medium          Increase      Null
Use of chemicals           Indirect  Medium         Increase       Null
Deforestation              Indirect  Short-Medium   Increase       Low
Impact on Transport-Related Parameters. The survey shows substantial reduction in travel times (up to
half) brought about by the rehabilitation works on both rural roads and NMT paths. This reduction tends
to be higher the worse the initial condition of the infrastructure is. Also, travel time reductions on RRP
rehabilitated roads compare favorably with the reductions achieved on "control" roads rehabilitated by
other programs. These reductions had a threshold effect as their magnitude jump-started new transport
services and significantly increased traffic volumes along the roads rehabilitated.
- 108 -



Travel Time Reduction     All        All    Rehabilitated  Matching      Non-      Matching
RRP       Control    Control       RRP      rehabilitated   RRP
Roads      Roads       Roads       Roads   Control Roads   Roads
Travel Time - March 2000       81.4        59.3        60.9        71.8         53.8        79.6
TravelTime-BeforeRRRP          155.4       79.9        91.6       145.6         59.8       140.8
Percent variation              -47.6      -25.8       -33.5        -50.7        -10.1      -43.4
Another variable that shows positive changes on an unambiguous manner is the reduction in transport
tariffs for both passengers and freight, the more so if one takes into consideration the sizeable increase in
the cost of vehicle fuel as a consequence of the increase in gasoline and diesel prices since the beginning of
the RRP. This effect is more clear when comparing the roads surveyed with those of the control sample.
In the latter, transport prices changed on a percentage more than double that for the rehabilitation roads
under the RRP in nominal terms. The effect on transport prices was larger (i.e., larger decrease) for freight
tariffs. In all, decreasing transport prices appear to reflect both lower vehicle operating costs and increased
competition from an increasing number of providers. In the case of freight, it appears that the supply of
trucks sometimes exceeds the demand and has forced prices to decrease at comparatively higher rate that
that for other types of transport services.
Passenger Fares         AMl          All     Rehabilitate  Matching  Non -reha blit Matching
By transport means       RRP        Control    d Control     RAP         ated        RRP
fAduttfare ix solke s   Rads         Roads       Roads      Roads          Control  Roads
________________              Roads
Car fare - March 2000             5.1         4.7         4.5        4.9          7.7        4.7
Car fare before RR!P              4.5         3.5         3.5        4.4          4.3        3.3
Percent Variation                13.9        33.5        28.2       11.6         76.9       40.0
Minibus fare - March 2000         3.8         2.6         2.6        3.4          2.3        3.1
Minibus fare before RRP           3.4         2.0         2.0        2.9          1.5        2.9
Percent Variation                12.8        33.6        29.4       18.8         49.5        8.4
Bus fare - March 2000             4.6         3.8         4.2        3.5          3.5        4.9
BusfarebeforeRRP                  4.1         3.1         3.2        3.3          3.0        4.8
Percent Variation                12.9        19.5        29.0        6.5         16.8        1.0
Truck fare - March 2000           3.7         2.8         3.2        3.1          2.6        5.1
Truck fare before RRP             3.4         2.2         2.5        2.9          2.3        5.2
Percent Variation                 9.0        23.0        26.5        4.9         12.8       -1.5
et IheiRates           All         All      Rehabilitate  Matching  Non-rehabUtit Matching
By ransmport means       RRP        Control    d Contro      RRP         aed         RRP
(S*ls per kV         Roads        RoadY       Roads       Roads         Con"tl  Road
________________Roads
Bus Freight - March 2000        0.052       0.043       0.049      0.034        0.054      0.029
Bus Freight before RRP         0.061        0.044       0.049      0.034        0.079      0.030
Percent Variation             -14.815      -1.205       0.000      0.000      -31.746     -4.167
Truck Freight - March           0.032       0.035       0.032      0.038        0.026      0.032
2000
Truck Freight before RRP       0.035       0.035        0.037      0.038        0.030      0.033
Percent Variation              -8.657      -0.754     -12.121      0.549      -13.253     -3.261
The reliability of transport services was seen as markedly improved in the RRP roads, with 68 percent
reporting high good or good reliability, while only 28 percent expressed the same opinion for transport
- 109-



services on the control-sample roads.
Users' Opinion on Reliabily of Public Trans 7ort Services  Rehabilted Roads by Region (C/)
Level of  Sample Control Northern Sierra   Central Sierra   Southern Sierra      Selva
Reliab.    Roads  Roads Sample           Sample           Sample            Sample  Control
Control         Control          Control _
High.       5.50    0.70    3.60             2.40            11.50    1.90
Good       62.30   27.70   67.90   20.70   50.00   20.90   61.50   32.70   79.20   37.50
Little     26.70   52.70   25.00   69.00   38.10   44.20   21.20   50.00   20.80   54.20
Not. rel.    5.50   18.90    3.60   10.30    9.50   34.90    5.80   15.40              8.30
On a related matter that directly impinges in the quality and price of transport services, the surveys shows
that the rehabilitation program has brought about a substantial decrease in the percentage of time the roads
are not in passable condition. For the sample of roads under the RRP, the percentage of roads that are
open to traffic every month of the year increase from 16 percent to 45 percent, and the percentage of the
sampled roads that were occasionally impassable (e.g., during or immediately after a rain) for three o more
months decrease from 62 percent to 31 percent. For the control sample, the changes were not noticeable,
with only 20 percent of the roads with zero months of blocked conditions and above 58 percent with three
or more months with the road closed (compared to 18 percent and 63 percent, before the beginning of the
RRP). In this aspect, the activities of the maintenance micro-enterprises were instrumental in keeping the
improved roads in the enhanced passable condition.
The survey shows the overall travel pattems of the population in the sample projects. Trip purpose was
divided among work and non-work related activities (such as school and health-related trips, social visits,
processing of administrative papers, buying and selling). The survey reports that about 30 percent of the
trips are related to labor activities, and they are taken for a distance of about 10 km. Those for buying and
selling agricultural products are next with about 24 percent of the trips and an average distance of between
20 and 33 km. Next come trips for education and health purposes with up to 20 percent of the trips. Trips
for the purpose of visiting relatives and friends or attending social and communal activities represent
another important part of the travel of the surveyed population (19 percent) with an average distance of 43
km, the largest among the several trip purposes (and about similar to the one for the processing of
administrative papers, that represent about 4 percent of the trips). No changes to this split of trip purposes
are reported in the impact survey after the completion of the RRP.
Most trips are undertaken by foot, with a decrease from about 52 percent to 46 percent after the
implementation of the RRP in the sampled projects. Trips for work-related purposes are the ones with the
largest percentage of walking mode and a less substantial decrease after the implementation of the RRP
(from 78 percent to 76 percent), due mainly to the fact that are the ones with the shortest average distance.
On the contrary, trip for social-oriented purposes oT to process administrative papers show the smallest
percentage of walking mode and decreases from 29 to 24 percent for the former and from 21 to 14 percent
for the latter. Motorized forms of transport (motorcycles, automobiles, buses of various forms, and trucks)
increased from 41 percent before the project to 48 percent after the project. NMT and others (e.g., boats)
take the rest of the trips (about 6 and 7 percent after and before the project, respectively).
- 110-



The change in modal split directly
Trip distribution by purpose and means of          affects the reduction in travel times,
transport                        Tr     Means      with an average decrease of 20 percent.
t0051.                        Walk - NMT - Veh.- 0th. In general, the largest decrease takes
Visft reataives (13.7%) 42.8 km      place in those types of trips when there
Admin. Proced.6%; 42.7 km 14% -2% - 83% - 1%  is a higher participation of motorized
Purchiase sduts 18.5%; 33.3 km 24% -2% - 71% - 3   transport while the smallest increase
3 .  $L2L-soCialActiv. 3.7%;24.7km 24%-2%°-71%-3%  (about 15 percent) correspond to work-
& 50°/e_  -    Sell products 11%, 20.2 km 37% - 8% - 53% - 2%  related trips, which are the ones with the
Work 34_6%; 9.7 km 76% -   16%  2%highest percentage of users travelling on
e      _              Work 34.6%; 9.7 km 76% - 6% -16% - 2%  foot. The improved roads also bring
It     _      Education & Health 9.5%; 2,1 km        with them the possibility of increasing
WAerfirewood (3%) -1 7 km,           driving speeds and with this an
0     10 km   25km         50 km    Distance    increased number of accidents. The
survey confirmed this hypothesis,
though when the increase in the amount of traffic is factored in the increase in the accident rate is
not noticeable.
Impact on access to basic services. The survey does not show a significant impact on access to
education, in terms of greater attendance, smaller drop-out rates, or higher enrollment of teachers.
Interviews, however, do show an appreciable perception in the improvement of the quality of education
through increased security in the movements of pupils and teachers, better punctuality of both of them, and
an increase in extracurricular activities. The impacts are however noticeably positive in the case of access
to health services. Travel times to/from health specialists (doctors, nurses, midwives, or pharmacies) show
a substantial decrease in the project areas compared to the control areas, and for both rural roads and NMT
tracks. And in terms of changes in the access to justice, the impacts have a mixed picture and one that is
hard to evaluate. The number of cases reported to the police showed a substantial increase in the surveyed
areas along the rehabilitated roads. These statistics seem to show that increase access also brings increased
reporting of grievances but also, possibly, an increased in grievances that can occur with greater frequency
by improved mobility of population (such as assaults and property damages).
Access to Education    Rural Road Access       NMTAccess
(averag pere duc.center)  Sample    Control   Sample   Control
Students Registered
In 1999                 204.5         194.5 158.1          141.2
Before RRP              195.7         186.4 151.4          144.8
Percent Variation        4.5            4.3    4.4          -2.5
Dropouts
In 1999                 17.6           18.5  15..2          11.4
Before RRP              17.7           17.1  14.7           14.6
Percent Variation       -0.5            8.5  3.0           -21.7
Access to Health     Rural Road Access       NA47Access
(average per       Sample    Control   Sample   Control
heowkcenter)      ___
Number of Visits
In 1999                  1,801        1,469  2,536        1,531
Before RRP               1,504        1,270  2,371        1,386
Percent Variation        19.74       15.60    6.96        9.87
- 111 -



Popuations perception of the influence of RRP on   Road Acess                NMTAccess
Health      ()                 Positve N     l   No    Positive N     ve   None
On infrastructure and equipment                    70        3       27      40j              60
On number of attendances                           902                9      50      20!      30
On health personnel's willingness (appearance, mood)  76     4       20      601     10       30
On Timely Attendance (Emergencies)                 911       2i       7      701      10     20
On Increased Access To Medicines                   77        2t      21      50'              50
On Greater Specialization                          821       1       17      50,              50
Po      nsperetion ofthe ifence of:RRP on              d Access              NM:T Access
EdcatioAlPOses                   Postie [gati    Nn   Psitiwve Neglve  None
On school infrastructure                        55       5        40      31 T69
On reduction of student absenteeism             59       3        38      45               55
On teachers' willingness/rapport (appearance/mood)  69   3        28      45               55
On students' performance (mood/concentration)   53       3   j  44        31   I  7        62
On teacher recruiting                           63       3        34      48       3       49
On the execution of extra-curricular activities  71      3        26      38       7       55
On female teachers' safety when traveling       79        1       20      62       3       35
Aside from education, health and other public services, the survey reports that those areas served by the
RRP projects enjoy an increased numnber of government-sponsored programs than those in the control
sample. This may corroborate the hypothesis that improved access facilitates the delivery of other
programs, and in the long term a project like the RRP could also facilitate the coordination and
implementation of a comprehensive package of investment programs, maximizing the combined impact in a
particular rural area.
Impact on economic activities. The survey does not show noticeable changes to economic production
activities. Given that projects where completed less than two years before the survey was taken, it might be
the case that the possible impact of the rehabilitated roads on economic activities has not materialized yet.
Variables such as value of the land, productivity, number of heads of livestock, prices of agricultural
products, do not show a significant positive trend that can be assigned to the advantages of better access.
There appears to be a tendency to shift crops to the production of more profitable ones and away from
more traditional crops such as potatoes, but the figures are not conclusive. In terms of the
commercialization of products and in the possibility of moving from production for subsistence to
production for export (outside the area of production), the survey shows a mixed picture as for some
products (wheat or com) there appears to be a less than significant proportion of production
commercialized outside the local area, while for others the difference appears to be either not noticeable or
with an increased proportion of the production exported outside the area.
In terms of the marketing techniques, it appears that the rural producers in the areas where the RRP was
implemented had a better edge in holding their products in anticipation of higher prices, but the difference
(31 vs. 27 percent) appears not to be statistically significant. Other aspects, such as when the price is
determined, how often they change their intermediaries, or how they pay (credit or cash), both the RRP and
control samples report almost exactly the same answers. The number of rural producers in local fairs
however increased (by 13 percent) in the sample of the RRP roads while it decreased (by 5 percent) in the
sample of control roads. The survey shows that the rehabilitated roads helped diversify productive
activities and move away from the traditional sectors and into other more income-rewarding activities with
higher value added, helping also spread risks across them. A discernible positive difference is shown in the
- 112 -



perception of the population in the RRP areas compared to the control areas that income is now more stable
(from either agricultural or other economic activities) and higher. However, the analysis of the structure of
employment does not show a significant difference between the RRP rehabilitated roads and the control
roads. Interestingly, focus groups composed by RRP beneficiaries were much more positive, compared to
control groups, about the increased stability of their income after the roads were rehabilitated.
Rural Family Income Structure    Rural Road Access   NMTAccess
As Measured by Survey -(%)    Sample    Control   Sample   Control
Total Income                       100        100       100        100
Agricultural income                47.2       50.9       40       46.5
Sub-agricultural income             1.5        1.4       1.8       0.9
Livestock income                   29.2      30.1       41.7      36.1
Livestock sub-product income        8.1         4        5.7       1.9
Timber/forestry income              0.6        1.4       0.2       0.4
Income from other activities        5.1       3.7        3.3       4.3
Income from equipment renting       0.3         1        1.8         1
Income from land renting            0.6       0.6        1.2         0
Income from money transfers         6.4       5.8        4.2       7.8
Other income                         1          1        1.2       1.1
Focus groups opinion on current Income    RcdAccess       rMTAccess
compared to pre-rehabilitation period °/6)  RRP    Control    RRP
Agricultural income is now more stable/reliable  100.0    100.0   100.0
Yes                 36.4     32.1        26.6
No                  29.2     24.7        44.8
Same                26.8     38.3        23.1
Don't Know.          7.6      4.9         5.6
Income from other activities is now more stable
(reliable)                   100.0    100.0       100.0
Yes                 32.0    22.2          19.3
No                  29.8     24.7        40.7
Same                28.7     44.4        26.4
Don't Know.          9.5      8.6         13.6
Total income is now more stable (reliable)  100.0    100.0      100.0
Yes                 28.6     21.0         16.7
No                  28.0     25.9        33.3
Same                32.2     42.0        28.3
Don't Know.         11.2     11.1        21.7
Total income is now higher          100.0    100.0        100.0
Yes                 26.5     16.3         13.8
No                  29.6     28.8        35.5
Same                33.5     43.8        28.3
_Don't Know.         10.4     11.3        22.5
On another account, the survey reports that the maintenance micro-enterprises facilitated the creation of
new employment and had a incipient multiplying effect in the generation of non-farm employment, with a
significant effect in spuring the local economy.
Regarding access to credit, after road rehabilitation, about 7 percent of farmers along RRP roads and about
11 percent of farmers along control roads requested credit. In both cases, about 90 percent of all these
requests received credit. With respect to RRP roads, about 12 percent received credit from a private bank,
about 6 percent from a NGO, about 6 percent from FONCODES, and about 66 percent from informal
- 113-



sources (relatives, etc.). As for farmers served by control roads, about 4 percent received credit from a
private bank and about 2% from a rural bank, about 13 percent from NGOs, about 7 percent from
FONCODES, and about 65 percent from informal sources. These figures suggest that farmers along RRP
roads had more access, albeit incipient, to formal financial institutions such as private banks and rural
banks, and reaffirm the potential not yet fully exploited under the RRP of networking with NGOs to
enhance communities' access to financing.
Regarding migration, the survey shows that in percentage terms the number of people who migrated after
the roads were rehabilitated was similar (somewhat slightly higher) between the project roads and those of
the control sample. However, in the case of the former, employment factors had a much greater weight in
the decision to migrate, and they did it less to Lima than in the control sample, reflecting perhaps the better
opportunities opened by the improved road to work in the proximity of the original living area (and of
coming back with more easiness). The number of people returning to the area is also slightly higher for
RRP roads. These findings reinforce the notion of migration as an element of Andean livelihood strategy,
critical to the viability of rural peoples' livelihoods rather than an indicator of non-viability, as often
interpreted. It is generally a merely survival strategy, although in some cases migration may become part of
an accumulation strategy. Where agricultural intensification has been limited and other rural employment
absent, the principal livelihood adaptation has been temporary or permanent migration and the Andes is full
of projects that have attempted and failed to stop this out-migration. However, if migration to urban areas
offers the potential for welfare gains (rural populations continue to have lower levels of income and they
lack access to basic services), new forms of urban poverty have emerged since the urban poor may be more
vulnerable to economic instability due to their lack of assets: unlike the rural poor they have no access
subsistence production during periods of unemployrnent. The survey findings suggest that migrants from
the rural Sierra have not broken their connection with the communities of origin and that remittances, either
in cash or kind, work both ways --to and from the rural households, as part of a strategy for families and
kin networks to build a sustaining livelihood and cope with harsh economic conditions.
Remittances in last 12 months by  All   Northern    Central   Southern    Selva
PovertyLlevel and Regon ( S.@)   Regions  Sierra   Sierra     Sierra
To Rural Household
Total                             388.6      342.9      558.6     249.3      617.2
Extreme Poor                      292.6      163.5     409.9      321.8      367.2
Non-extreme Poor                  372.8      249.1     537.5      181.5      809.5
Non-Poor                          493.6      763.5      641.5     230.3      475.1
From Rural Household
Total                             279.4      370.0     289.1       146.9     597.3
Extreme Poor                      105.5       17.4     264.5       57.2       91.7
Non-extreme Poor                  140.4      158.6      128.1      56.8      374.C
Non-Poor                          429.7      809.8     357.1      231.4      922.9
Making a livelihood with less than $1 a day. Table 7 shows average household expenditure levels per
day, grouped by type of access and region for households in the project area belonging to the sample of
RRP beneficiaries or composing the control sample. Poor or non poor, household expenditures in the
project area are very low. The quality of access and the proximity to markets matters. For households
located in villages with NMT access only, household expenditures are on average between 76 and 97
percent of those in villages that benefit from road access. Similarly, household expenditure are slightly
higher for those living closer to the beginning of the road (as opposed to those living towards the end).
- 114 -



Table 7: Average Household Expenditure per Day by Region and Type of Access
TYPE OF ACCESS       TOTAL           Project Beneficiaries             Control Sample
Household Poverty Level  Project    All       Road      Road        All      Road       Road
Geographic Domain     Area       Benef     Begin.     End       Control   Begin.      End
TOTAL                         5.4        5.5       5.7       5.3        5.4        5.7       5.1
Total                        2.5         2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5        2.5       2.5
Extreme Poor                 4.5         4.5       4.5       4.5        4.5        4.6       4.4
Poor                          8.9        9.2       9.3       9.2        8.6        8.6       8.5
RURAL ROADS
Total                         5.5        5.7       5.9       5.5        5.4        5.7       5.2
Extreme Poor                 2.5         2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5        2.5       2.5
Poor                         4.5        4.6        4.6       4.5        4.6        4.7       4.4
Non-Poor                     9.1         9.5       9.5       9.6        8.6        8.6       8.6
Northern Highlands            6.0        6.4       6.6       6.2        5.7        6.2       5.1
Extreme Poor                 2.7         2.6       2.5       2.6        2.8        3.1       2.6
Poor                         4.6         4.6       4.6       4.6        4.7        4.6       4.8
Non-Poor                     10.7       11.5      11.2      11.7        9.4        9.3       9.4
Central Highlands            5.5        5.7        5.9       5.5        5.5        5.4       5.6
Extreme Poor                 2.5        2.4        2.4       2.5        2.5        2.3       2.8
Poor                         4.3         4.4       4.6       4.1        4.4        4.7       4.0
Non-Poor                      8.8        9.2       8.6      10.0        8.4        7.9       8.9
Southern Highlands            4.8        5.0       5.2       4.7        4.8        4.9       4.7
Extreme Poor                  2.4        2.4       2.4       2.4        2.3        2.4       2.2
Poor                         4.1         4.1       3.8       4.3        4.2        4.2       4.2
Non-Poor                      8.2        8.7       9.4       7.9        7.9        7.9       8,0
"Selva"                      6.3        6.4        6.4       6.4        6.3       7.2        5.4
Extreme Poor                 2.9         2.8       3.1       2.6        3.0        3.2       2.9
Poor                          5.3        5.5       5.5       5.4        5.1        5.4       4.9
Non-Poor                     9.8         9.9       9.8       9.9        9.8       10.7       8.3
NON-MOTORIZED TRACKS
Total                         5.0        4.7       5.0       4.3        5.3        5.7       4.9
Extreme Poor                 2.5         2.4       2.7       2.2        2.6        2.5       2.6
Poor                         4.3        4.3        4.1       4.5        4.2        4.4       4.1
Non-Poor                     7.9         7.2       8.1       6.3        8.4        8.6       8.2
Northern Highlands            6.1        6.0       6.2       5.9        6.2        6.1       6.2
Extreme Poor                  3.0        3.1       3.2       2.8        2.9        2.9       2.9
Poor                         4.9         4.6       3.0       5.2        5.1        4.6       5.6
Non-Poor                      8.5        8.8       8.3      10.6        8.2        8.5       7.6
Central Highlands            5.7        5.4        5.8       4.9        6.1        6.6       5.6
Extreme Poor                  2.8        2.8       3.2       2.4        2.7        2.5       2.8
Poor                         4.5         4.5       4.3       4.7        4.6        4.9       4.1
Non-Poor                      8.6        7.6       8.5       6.7         9.5      10.2       8.7
Southern Highlands           2.7         2.4       2.5       2.2         2.9       3.0       2.8
Extreme Poor                 2.1         2.0       2.1       1.8        2.3        2.4       2.3
Poor                         3.0         3.2       3.9       2.6        2.9        2.3       3.3
Non-Poor                      3.8        3.1       3.4       3.0        4.3        4.3       4.5
Source: Instituto Cuanto. Encuesta Socioecon6mica de Hogares, 2000.
- 115-



The chart shows the average composition of household expenditures (for all households in the survey).
Meeting food needs takes on average about 57 percent of the total household expenditure. This percentage
is higher the poorer the household and the quality of access (e.g., about 68 percent in the case of extreme
poor households located in villages with NMT tracks). Non-poor households spend much more, in both
absolute and relative terms, on health/medicines and transportation than poor or extreme poor households
do. The differences are significant; for example, expenditure incurred in health may on average represent
about 3 percent for extreme poor households to about 9 percent for non poor households living, in both
cases, in rural villages with road access. The trend is similar for expenditure in transportation (see chart).
The latter finding suggests that as more income becomes available, households would allocate a greater
proportion of their income to transportation and communication, to get better returns on their assets and/or
meet perceived needs that had been suppressed for the lack of income opportunity.
Household Consumption by Item (0/,               BpendkmonTrinsottf/.)
4%  3%1%
_657                                2-        <  1            .    i
6%   Food                          1|0 l  1| ||t1> 2
* Clothing & Footwear            O        7|  |4:A                  4I
* Housing & Fuel
o Health & Medicines                     PWdss              NUTos
El Transportation & Commun.
c Education & Amusement
a Other Goods & Services               OEAPocr    a1P1or    *Nm Por
* Transfers - Remittances
Understanding Poverty Links: Household Assets and Livelihood Strategies. The dispersion of
spending or income, as well as the probabilities of individuals and families of being poor or non-poor,
depend on their stock of assets and its return or market price. Thus, identifying the critical amount and
combination of assets needed to overcome poverty would give some insights on how to develop a more
effective pro-poor rural development strategy. Using data from the impact evaluation study, Table 8
attempts to portray a profile of the rural households in the project area, showing for the three poverty
categories of households --extreme poor, poor, and non-poor (according to poverty line criteria)--, their
average endowment of public and private assets. What are the main determinants of poverty? The data
stresses the significant variation in education attainments and their strong correlation with poverty levels, in
spite of the fact that these attainments are still very low for all categories. Another important finding is that
traditional agricultural assets can not explain the differences in poverty levels. On the contrary, the
differences become more significant when capital and financial assets such as the accumulation of
productive and durable goods, the value of transport equipment and access to credit, are considered.
- 116-



Table 8: Households' Endowment of Public and Private Assets by Poverty Level
Household Poverty Level
Livelihood Assets by Category:                      Ext. Poor   Poor   Non Poor
Human Capital.Family Size (No.)                          6         5        4
Education of Household Head (years)      2.9       4.4      6.2
Education of rest of household (years)   3.2       4.3      5.4
Natural Capital: Livestock owned                       25.9     21.4      29.7
Land per HH (median) (Ha)                1.0       1.5      1.6
Value per Ha (median) (S/.)            4,200    2,500    2,500
Value of farm plot (median) (S/.)      4,200    3,750    4,000
Physical Capital: Has Water in dwelling (%)              70        70       80
Has Electricity (%/o)                     40       50        60
Has Sanitation (%)                        10        10       20
Value of durable goods (S/.)             213      453       836
Value of productive goods (S/.)          165       156      391
Value of transport equipment (S/.)       340      586    1,263
Social Capital: Migration experiences per HH (No.)    0.3       0.4       0.5
Financial CapitalAccess to credit                         0        10        10
The analysis can also be centered on the distribution of assets rather than the poverty category of the
respective households, clustering the households in the survey according to their endowment of assets. The
data from the survey suggests three possible groups with statistically different endowments --with Group I
having the lowest endowment and Group 3 the largest. The most significant assets for this classification
-those that show statistically significant differences-- are as follows:
Most significant assets for grouping households (areas benefited by PCR I)
Type of access:   Motorized Roads        Non-motorized Tracks
Tvpe of Asset                Group] Group 2 Group 3 Group I Group 2 Group 3
Education of HH Head (years)   Medium   Low     High    Low        -       -
Education of rest of HH (years)  -       -      High    Low      High   Medium
Livestock owned                 -        -       -    Medium   Low       High
Value of farm plot (S/.)        -      High      -        -        -     High
Has Water in dwelling (%)      Low       -       -        -      High      -
Has Electricity (%)            Low   Medium   High    Low        High   Medium
Has Drainage (%)                -        -     High       -      High      -
Value of durable goods (S/.)    -        -      High      -      High      -
Value of productive goods (S/.)  -     Low       -        -       -      High
Value transport equipment (S/.)  -       -      High    Low       -
Communal Activities (%)         -        -      High      -        -     High
Access to credit (%)         Medium   Low       High      -        -     High
Table 9-A shows the asset distribution for the three groups established within the sample of households
benefited by the RRP. A similar table can be composed for the three groups established within the sample
of households belonging to the control sample (Table 9B not shown). The data shows that the incidence of
poverty declines as the endowment of assets increases, which is quite obvious. More striking is the finding
that even within the group with the largest stock of assets poverty is still widespread. This makes
important to look in more detail at the varying types of livelihood strategy that are emerging in the Andes,
in order to understand the types of resource access, capability enhancement and political economic factors
upon which they have been based, and the conditions under which they may become more sustainable and
more poverty alleviating (the two are not necessarily the same). The data reinforces the notion that the ways
in which people compose rural livelihoods in the Andes are multiple and increasingly they have a very
significant non-agrarian component. These assets are not simply resources that people use in building
- 117 -



livelihoods. The environment that an income earning strategy helps build (or destroy) and the social
networks it helps create (or weaken), in turn affects any subsequent income earning activity. The different
capitals are thus not only inputs to livelihoods and development strategies --they are also outputs. Their
changing composition must be considered not only in sustainability terms but also in poverty terms.
Table 9-A: Household Groups by Their Endowment of Assets - RRP Beneficiaries
Type ofaccess:    Motorized Roads       Non-motorized Tracks
Type of Asset                Group] Group 2 Group 3 Group I Group 2 Group 3
Human Capital:Family Size (No)                 5.00    5.02    5.01    5.04    5.12    4.64
Education of HH Head (years)     3.22    2.48    9.77    2.32    5.06    3.27
Education of rest of HH (years)  2.76    2.60    8.62    2.32    5.93    3.75
Natural Capital:Livestock owned               25.13   21.95   37.68   25.24   13.10   82.63
LandperHH(median)(Ha)             1.8      1.1     1.5     1.1      1.0     1.5
Value per Ha (median) (S/.)     1,800   3,333   3,871   4,333   2,500   3,060
Value of farm plot (median) (S/.)   3,240   3,667   5,806   4,767   2,500   4,590
Physical CapitalHas Water in dwelling (%)         3      100      95      34       98      36
Has Electricity (%)                20      34      84        3      92       5
Has Drainage (%)                    4       5      40        0      26       0
Value of durable goods (S/.)      274     257   1,143      138     734     165
Value of productive goods (S/.)   254      88     387       33      35     148
Valuetransportequipment(S/.)      511     412   1,512     452   1,447   1,002
Social Capital:HHs. Receiving remittances (%)   24      21      16       30     4.0      18
Social programs accessed (No.)    4.0     4.7      3.8     4.0     3.8      2.8
HHs access 3+ programs (%)         69      74      63       65      62      50
Communal Activities (%)             3       3       7        0       0      41
Social Activities (%)               9       7      10       10       0       5
Financial CapitalAccess to credit (%)              6       3      12       4        2       9
No. of houseollds                 265     441     293       79      50      22
Poor households in group(%)      74.7    73.5    44.4    74.7    56.0    50.0
ExtrerepoorHHingroup)            37.0    43.3    17.4    48.1    16.0    31.8
Is the RRP attacking rural poverty? In all, the survey showed not significant changes in the poverty
levels of the rehabilitated sample compared to the control sample, although there appears to be a tendency
to improved living conditions (such as availability of potable water, lighting, or communal facilities) or
availability of goods (such as televisions, tractors or bicycles) for households in the RRP sample. This
suggests that conditions might be improving, but yet they are not reflected in the poverty categories. A
comparison of poverty rates --i.e., the percentage of the population living in households with a per capita
consumption below the poverty line-- shows similar results between households benefited by the RRP and
those who compose the control sample, though slightly lower in the control group. The depth of poverty is
also very similar, though slightly higher for the RRP sample, compared to those in the control sample. The
depth of poverty is measured by the poverty gap index, which estimates the average distance separating the
poor from the poverty line as a proportion of that line):
Incidence of Poverty          Road Access            NMTAccess
(% of population bearing poverty)    RRP    Control      RRP       Control
TOTAL                               100.00     100.00      100.00      100.00
Total Poor                           69.23      68.29       73.15       70.10
*  Extremely poor                   38.04       36.18      42.99       36.86
*  Not extremely poor               31.19       32.12      30.16       33.25
Not poor                             30.77      31.71       26.85       29.90
Poverty Gap (%)                      28.47      26.95       28.92       26.17
- 118 -



However, clear indications of the positive impact of the RRP on rural poverty emerge from the analysis of
the survey data and its comparison with recent poverty data in Peru:
*   An analysis based on the initial endowment of public and private assets for households in both the RRP
and the control samnples, suggests that although "control roads" were carefully selected to ensure they
served areas with characteristics essentially similar to those of the sampled "RP roads", still there were
differences in the level of assets owned by households in each sample. Control groups had a better
endowment of certain assets: a greater percentage of households in the control group have access to
electricity, own on average almost 1 hectare more of land, and their other productive assets have 50%
more value than those of the households in the project sample. Something similar happens with the
rates for extreme poverty. However, if a statistical analysis is performed controlling for the different
possession of assets by the respective households, the net effect of the project is a reduction of the
poverty rate in 1.22 percentage points for households with access to motorized roads and 0.66
percentage points for those with access to NMT paths. The impact is greater when dealing with
extreme poverty: the rate of extreme poverty falls as a result of the project in 1.66 percentage points
and 2.65 percentage points for households with access to motorized roads and NMT paths respectively.
Although these are not dramatic impacts, they are within the range that could be expected in a context
where the impacts are usually of a long term nature.
*   Furthermore, when measured up to recent poverty data in Peru, it appears that the project did have a
noticeable impact in arresting the increase in poverty rates that has taken place in Peru between 1997
and 2000. A recent survey shows that between those two years, overall poverty increased from 51
percent to 54 percent. This appears to show that the project may have at least prevented a further
deterioration of poverty indicators in the RRP areas.
In sum, the impact survey shows a discernible support for the RRP as expressed by the interviewed
population and the benefits perceived by them. The major --most immediate impact--appears to focus on
travel conditions and the possibilities it brings about to increase social relationships and access to markets,
health services, and educational facilities. The surveys however does not provide a clear and conclusive
evidence that the rehabilitated roads have brought about substantial economic development (as reflected in
better terms of trade or increases in agricultural and livestock production) or poverty reduction. In spite of
the fact the survey includes a control sample (to which the same overall, broader country and worldwide
impacts should apply), the results appear to show that the project has initiated the improvement of the
livelihood of local conditions during a period where countrywide poverty indicators worsened. In all, the
project, if sustained, should produce more noticeable impacts on poverty and economic development
indicators.
Social Assessment: A Continuous and Evolving Process
The purpose of the social assessment is to analyze how the RRP interventions affect and will affect the
people living in the project area, and how, in turn, they will affect the project outcome. In the context of
the RRP, the social assessment has become a continuous and evolving process where the monitoring of
project social indicators not only provides timely feedback but the basis for identifying studies and
assessments sharply focused on social issues. The chart below describes this process, the specific issues
being addressed and the various instruments used for this purpose, using the framework of the four pillars
of social assessment. The social assessment is a joint effort between PCR's Social Promotion Unit, NGOs
already involved in the project (e.g., Cuanto and Centro), a team of consultants (comprised of a research
economist from GRADE, an anthropologist and a social scientist) funded through Social Compact Funds,
and the IDB-Bank team . The paragraphs below briefly discuss some of the activities carried out in the
- 119-



context of the social assessment and their outcomes.
*Stakeholder Consultation [SC]
Social Assessment                       *Participatory Workshops [PW]
an evolving process                     -Case Studies [CS]
*Evaluation Studies [ES]
*Pilot [P]
Pillars         Preparation        Implementation    Evaluation
Appraisal 2nd Phase
Social         *Targeting (SC)
Issues         *Eligibility Criteria (SC)
-Compensation (SC)   *NMT-Social Ass (CS)  *'Selva" Exploratory Ass. (ES)
*PCR:Skills, Units (SC) *Coordination with
Org. Issues   -Project design (P)   other programs (SC)  *MCM-w/local authorities (PW)
* Industry response (P) *ME-Assessment (ES)  *Partnership for LDW (PW)
Partictpatfo--                                       .                     -_.
Framework   *Basic Needs (PW)    *Needs Prioritization    *CDF-"Selva" Pilot (PW)
*Ownership and                           *Participatory Ass. and
Maintenance (PW)                        Stakeholder Analysis (ES)
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   ---     ---    --   --------- .   ....  .............      ._.. _    _  ... ..  .... ....  ... .... _. .. _.   ... _... .. ..___._. 
Monitoring & -Log-Framework (SC)  *Side effects during   *Impact Evaluation (ES)
Evaluation   *Operation Manual (SC) construction (Kiteni) (CS) *Participatory Eval.
*Performance Audit (SC) *Gender Impact Ass. (CS) (Learning ICR) (PW)
Strengthening Participatory Mechanisms and Social Inclusion. The review of participation
mechanisms used during the first phase of the RRP, enriched with the findings of the various studies
described in this section, enabled the identification of strategic and operational recommendations to enhance
the participatory dimension of the second phase and to better reach vulnerable groups. Moreover, the
participatory workshops held with the municipalities in 2000 were crucial to designing the MCM. The
constraints that would have prevented municipalities from making their contributions under the MCM were
identified and their removal became a key element in project design. Box 4 in the main text briefly presents
the purpose of the various participatory mechanisms used under the RRP. In a nutshell, consultation and
participatory workshops during implementation of the first phase attempted to: (i) assess transport needs
and understand poverty links as perceived by the communities; (ii) confirm with beneficiaries the priority of
works and the commitment to their maintenance; (iii) validate designs and include local solutions; (iv)
mobilize local government support for road maintenance financing and institutional building; (v) provide
local governments with necessary information about the project and their roles; and (vi) identify the specific
needs of vulnerable groups (e.g., women, indigenous groups settled in the three locations where the pilot on
River Transport Improvement will be implemented).
Stakeholder analysis has evolved during implementation, as the project creates new stakeholder groups,
changes relationships between groups. In some cases project implementation has made evident existing
distrust/tension among groups (e.g., intra-village, between levels of government) or even spurred
conflict/uneasiness among other agencies that are not the target of the RRP. Table 10 presents a summary
of the stakeholder analysis and outreach strategy for the second phase of the RRP. The various groups
have been rated (i.e., high, medium, low) in accordance with their importance for the project (e.g., targeted
groups) and influence on the project outcomes (e.g., control over project outcomes). PCR has established
a strong Social Promotion and Institutional Development unit (one of the three main branches of PCR),
which is conveniently supported with staff in the field and works in close cooperation with NGOs.
- 120 -



Table 10: Stakeholder Analysis and Outreach Strategy
Stakeholder   Importance                        Influence
Identificaton             Intereos/1ssue                       P-ricpation Strategy
Congress       H *  Decentralization agenda.      H  Collaboration: lobby (PCR/Majors)
*  Support Co-financing
Mechanism for Maintenance.
MEF            H *  Overall funding to MTC and    H  Collaboration: enhance working relation-ship
disbursement authorization.    through OPLA-ODI
*  Approval Co-financing
Mechanism. Support fiscal
decentralization
MTC            H *  Fund allocation within sector.   H  Collaboration, through Executive Committee
*  Support maintenance of road      (Vice-Minister) and OPLA-ODI; inform
network in project area         progress.
*  Issuing regulations (road
functional classification)
*  Potential tension with middle
managers
DGC-SINMAC  M *  Maintenance of sec. roads        M  Consultation: coordinate annual programs,
*  Competition from their force     monitor compliance with programs
account arrangements.
*   Potential uneasiness
PRONAMACH   M *  Coordination of complementary  M  Consultation: sign Collaboration Agreements;
FONCODES-            interventions in project area   share information
INADE
CTARs          L *  Maintenance of secondary      L  Consultation, through PCR's regional units
roads.
*  Potential change in role in the
event of decentralization.
Consultants &
Contractors
Large  L *  Lobby against project at time of M  Information Sharing: explain project goals to
fiscal constraints for not being  minimize risk
targeted.
Small M *  Delivery of services.          M  Information Sharing and Consultation: update
*  Capacity to work with           roster of local firms for limited NCB; provide
municipalities.                 training, information on equipment rental.
NGOs           H *  Delivery NMT program.         M  Information Sharing: disseminate project goals
*  Building communities' social     and opportunities, train NGOs in productive
capital.                        activities/microfmance.
*  Partnering for complementary     Participation/Empowerment: seek sinergies
action.                         through Local Development Window, establish
partnerships
Municipalities
Majors not M *  Pressure to expand project    M  Information Sharing: explain goals/phases of
benefited by       deviating attention from poor.  Rural Roads Program; offer support on
project       Pace of decentralization         technical grounds
Majors  H *  Support for maintenance co-    H  Collaboration: sign Participation Agreements
benefited by       financing mechanism and         with provinces and "Encargo Presupuestar' for
project       micro-enterprise program,       MCM; monitor compliance with participatory
*  Involvement in institutional     process in MOP, demand-driven TA program,
building/technical assistance.  and graduation program
*  Participatory screening of
projects.
*  Cooperation between districts
- 121 -



Micro-         H *  Quality of maintenance.        H  Participation/Empowerment: expand
enterprises       *  Employment opportunities in      participatory evaluation of program, review
the community for non-           selection criteria and operational procedures to
members of micro-enterprise.    encourage women participation, fine-tune
Sustainability of productive    training component, enhance dialogue with
activities.                     local authorities, encourage community action
*  Community support eroded         and joint-ventures to enhance sustainability of
with time for lack of           productive activities
opportunity                      Consultation: mitigate side effects of cost
*  Potential women exclusion        reduction and design exit strategy (competition
issue.                          for market)
Rural          H *  Participatory screening of     M  Participation/Empowerment: expand
Committees           tracks.                          participatory evaluation of program and
*  Social mobilization of           maintenance system, review operational
community. Voluntary            procedures to assign specific activities to
contribution of labor for       women, develop fine-tune training component,
rehabilitation and maintenance.  enhance dialogue with district authorities to
*  Engagement in collective         mobilize support, encourage community action
action/development initiatives  and joint-ventures to enhance sustainability of
productive activities
Communities
Whole  H *  Support Micro-enterprises      L  Participation/Empowerment: continue
*  Engagement in project works      participatory screening of subprojects and
*  Participation in development     monitoring and evaluation of programs;
initiatives (VDL)
Vulnerable  H *  Participation in screening of  L  Participation/Empowerment: prepare gender
groups:        subprojects.                     statement to encourage women attendance;
Women      *  Participation in project works    stimulate participation (meetings in quechua);
and income-earning activities   strengthen and train social unit within PCR
(VDL)                           (headquarters and field offices) and local
officials; monitor gender indicators; launcl.
development initiatives aimed at women
participation/empowerment;
Vulnerable  H *  Inclusion of indigenous groups    Participation/Empowerement: engage NGO
groups:        living in settlements along the  with ample experience in working with
Indigenous        selected pilot locations in     indigenous communities along the Upper
Groups (River       consultation for screening pilot  Ucayali river for design, execution and
Transport       interventions                     evaluation of consultation process; involve
Pilot)    *  Participation of indigenous      indigenous groups, if interested, in the
settlements in pilot benefits   selection, design and implementation of pilot
*  Participation of indigenous      activities; establish a impact monitoring system
groups in monitoring impact of  with participation of indigenous communities.
pilot activities
Articulating the findings of Impact Evaluation Studies into recommendations for policy and project
design. The various activities listed in the chart provided some quantitative measures of impact as well as
valuable information to enhance the analysis of social issues. Furthering the social assessment has allowed
the expansion of the analysis beyond the factual project-related data collected through the surveys to better
understand how the various determinants affecting living conditions in rural areas interact among
themselves and what results could have been expected in a given area, had the interventions been done in a
different manner. These findings have pressed for a more holistic approach to poverty reduction and, in
turn, the design of the Local Development Window described in Annex 2.
- 122 -



Analyzing the implications of isolation on the behavior of remote rural communities. The
comunidades campesinas of the highlands are widely dispersed due to a variety of historical reasons,
among which stand out the scarcity of agriculture resources, the need to balance production activities in
different ecological floors and the accessibility constraints imposed by an extremely rugged topography.
Altogether, they have conditioned the communication and trade patterns of Andean communities, who have
traditionally relied on a dynamic system of local and regional fairs to trade their products and meet their
external communication needs. In the last 15 years, the growth of intermediate cities and new regional
markets have created demands for new products, affecting prices and reorienting development along new
economic and commercial circuits. The evidence collected through the NMT pilot has shown that the
perception of isolation goes beyond physical access constrains to encompass other multiple impacts derived
from information constraints (e.g., on market opportunities, availability of basic services), the lack of
cash-generating produce, and ancestral behaviors deeply rooted at the community level. Thus, bringing
isolated rural communities to the mainstream of economic activity, and more precisely, to a market
economy (the essence of a poverty eradication program) takes more than just improving infrastructure and
access to basic services. In the context of the social assessment, a study was commissioned to an
anthropologist to help the project team to examine cultural and peasant organizational dimensions as well
as their linkage with commerce and markets, in an effort to identify what type of assistance is needed for
communities to fully realize the benefit expected from improved access and transport services.
This case study conducted in 1999 assessed the social and cultural impact of improving non-motorized
tracks in communities that have no other form of access. One of the issues explored in the study was
whether compensating the communities (albeit partially) for their work under the project could weaken their
willingness to undertake communal initiatives on their own (the collectivefaenas had been traditionally
remunerated providing coca and aguardiente). On the contrary, a small compensation in cash proved quite
beneficial for it helped communities to strengthen their organizations and cope with their staggering needs
for cash (which is scarce in the highlands given the extensive use of bartering). Communities and road
committee members reinvested their savings in local undertakings, improving their welfare and stimulating
their local economies. Another issue was whether the creation of rural road committees could have resulted
in overlapping or interference with elected authorities. No complains were found in this respect.
Communities were able to choose the form of organization. In cases where the communities chose to
collectively undertake the project works, the community leaders were designated to lead the road
committee; in other cases where only community members willing to participate joined the committee,
committee authorities were elected by its members. For some communities, participating in a "Rural Road
Committee" meant having first time access to a bank account and acquiring new organizational and
technical skills.
Assessing social impacts and potential undesirable side effects on communities during the execution of
project interventions. Since the project entails the rehabilitation of existing roads, no direct-negative
effects are foreseen and the risks of indirect negative impacts linked with human activities (i.e.,
colonization, deforestation, resettlement) are minimal. A case study was conducted in 1999 to document
possible social side effects associated with the execution of large project investments in relatively isolated
areas. The study, carried out in the district of Kiteni, concluded that road construction activities neither
had negative impacts on the local labor market and the price of goods with greater local demand, nor
caused social disruption (e.g., excessive pressure on health services, delinquency, social conflicts). In view
of prevailing constraints in the local labor market, the contractors were forced to bring most of the skilled
labor from other regions; this, in turn, reduced the share of contract expenditure actually spent in the area.
- 123 -



The study also showed that road expenditures had only partially mitigated the significant downturn of
economic activity in the area that takes place every year after the coffee harvest. The amount of money
actually spent in the area as a result of project activities represented about 3.5 percent of the local GDP at
the beginning of the works, which coincided with the end of the harvest season, and raised to about 63.6
percent of the local GDP during the peak of the road program. This marked seasonality of economic
activity in the area (centered on one product) significantly increases the vulnerability of the rural poor. Box
6 gives a brief description of the study methodology.
Box 6: Social Impact of Large Project Investments in Isolated Areas (the Kiteni Case Study)
v Purpose of the Study. To document possible negative impacts associated with the execution of large project
investments in isolated areas. CuAnto, a well-known Peruvian NGO, was selected to perform the study in
Kiteni (province of La Convencion), a remote district in the department of Cusco with a permanent
population of about 20,000 inhabitants. The rehabilitation of 89 km in the district, with an investment
estimated at US$2.1 million in about six months, implies a large per capita investment in a short period of
time.
*  Methodology. The study is based on field evaluations --conducted before, duning and after the execution of
the works-to measure variations on social and economic parameters such as (i) economic activity and
household consumption (e.g., local GDP, commercial activities); (ii) employment (e.g., work force
composition, wages, migration), (iii) prices of goods with larger demand, (iv) the availability/uage of basic
social services (e.g., quality and cost of health, education and justice services); (v) social conflicts or
disruptions during the construction phase (e.g., worsening of security conditions, increased alcoholism and
disease transmission, and increased aecident rates). The ficld work entails direct measures, household
surveys and interviews with key informants and focus groups..
Women Participation and Empowerment: A Gender Exploratory Analysis. A first study was
commissioned in 1999 to carry out an exploratory gender impact assessment. Box 7 briefly presents the
approach taken to perform a first exploratory analysis of gender. On balance, the authors reported
generally positive effects of improvement of the rural roads system: to a greater or lesser degree it has
facilitated mobility, communications, access to resources, and participation in the labor market for both
women and men, and women report a high level of satisfaction with the improvements made. However, the
authors report inter- and intra-gender differences in the extent and nature of the effects of the project; also,
in some variables, no effects were detected; and some aspects of the project may have had negative effects
(for example, low levels of women participation in maintenance micro-enterprises might contribute to
reproducing a pattern of male authority in the organization of road maintenance). Local gender relations,
economic realities, and other factors (e.g., alcoholism and increased rural-urban migration, male
abandonment of household) mediate the ability of road improvements to effect changes in many major
aspects of daily life, including access to services, women's mobility pattems, labor market participation.
The usefulness of the findings is greatly increased by the recognition that (i) neither women nor men
constitute homogenous groups, and (ii) gender relations vary locally (in spite of the apparent homogeneity
of the communities sampled); consequently, project impact studies need to differentiate between relevant
groups and tie their findings to specific geographic areas or communities.
This first effort was furthered with the inclusion of a module under the Impact Survey Study performed in
2000, which although rather simple in its breadth, gave a dimension of the differences in gender perceptions
and impacts. The survey shows that the RRP road rehabilitation had a significant impact on women (in
relation of that of men) with regard to access to health care services, and positive but lower impacts with
regards to access to education and women's share of the labor force.
- 124-



Box 7: Exploratory Analyss of Project and Community Dynamics on Gender
* Purpose ofthe Study. To document gender differences in the econornic and soil impact of the rural roads and
the non-motrized rural trno  mponent of the project, wihin the overarhing firamework of poverty
reducton  It was performed by Centro (a Peruvian NGO) with fumding provided by the Gender Operational
Support Fund The study anawzed gende troles and atdes, and the differential effects of the project on Xt
lives of women and men, with respect to seven issues: access to seices, womens mobility, time use in
domesic activities, access to resources and benefits, participation in local markets, labor market dynamics, and
women's particpation in community orgization and leadershp.
* Methodology. An exploratory outcome study, rather than an impact study, which compares community
characteristics and projec dynamics in a sample of three areas in which the projed was carried out. Data
collection metiods included (i) participant observation witin the 3 commuities (field notes and
photorah); (ii) 35 inviews with women and men who are heads of households in the project area (a
non-probabilistc, purposive sample, use of semi-structured questinires); (iii) interviews with loca and
district authorities, transport opeaors, maintenance inicro-etpises personnel, and NGOs, using interview
guides with open-ended questions; and (iv) focus groups witb younger and older women and men, and with
womenWs organizations. Th authors caution ht their findins are tentaive, given the short time period
elapsed since dte inmrements were made, the small size of te sample, and the complexity of pinpointing the
causes of social and economic cbhage.
Access to health care services by gender in areas with roads rehabilitated under the RRP
(average per health center)
Number Registered                           Number Registered
Men 1999                           968.29   women 1999                        603.3
Men before rrp                     819.96   women before rrp                  461.3
Percent Variation                    18.09   Percent Variation                 30.8
Number of Dropouts                          Number of Dropouts
Men 1999                              9.68   women 1999                        7.88
Men before RRP                       10.17   women before RRP                  7.46
Percent Variation                    -4.90   Percent Variation                 5.72
Access to education by gender in areas with roads rehabilitated under the RRP
(average per school)
Number Registered                           Number Registered
Men 1999                            110.57   women 1999                       93.83
Men before rrp                      106.77   women before rrp                 88.79
Percent Variation                     3.56   Percent Variation                 5.67
Number of Dropouts                          Number of Dropouts
Men 1999                             9.68   women 1999                         7.88
Men before RRP                       10.17   women before RRP                  7.46
Percent Variation                    -4.90   Percent Variation                 5.72
Beyond these measurements, most women reported benefits from the RRP: of all women living in areas
benefited by the RRP surveyed during the field work, 70 percent reported that the RRP brought
improvements to their lifestyles (interestingly, out of those who reported not having benefited from the
RRP, roughly half said their situation remained the same as before road rehabilitation, about a quarter
stated they did not use the rehabilitated roads and seven percent declared they do not leave their
homestead). Among the main aspects women think they have benefited from the RRP, they report better
access to health care services, which supports the figures above, increased trade (sales of local products,
livestock and purchases from other areas) and more opportunities to visit acquaintances and socialize due
to increased mobility and safety when traveling. Women valued the most the fact that the RRP has enabled
them to travel to farther places; in second place, the possibility to travel more frequently, and in third place
to do it more safely.
- 125-



Aspects in which women got better off
Percent distribution of responses      Yes           No        Don 't Know
Housework                                  50.1          46.5          3.4
Improved health care service               69.5          27.9          2.6
Increased attendance to school             61.5          35.1          3.4
Productive tasks in their land plots       43.3          50.6          6.0
Trading                                    65.2          31.2          3.6
Social visits                              62.7          33.7          3.6
Administrative proceedings                 57.4          37.5          5.1
Undertake new activities                   48.6          45.5          5.9
Activities the RRP enabled women to do
Percent distribution of responses       Yes          No        Don 't Know
Travel to farther places                   77.3          22            0.7
Travel more frequently                     70.3           29           0.7
Travel safely                              66.8          31.6          1.6
Travel with greater security               53.6          42.2          4.2
Access additional income                   42.9          53.2          3.9
Access new tools and houseware             38.8          55.2          6.0
Access temporary jobs                      40.5          53.9          5.6
The participatory workshops conducted in October 2000 in the context of the Learning ICR proved another
key step towards engendering the RRP activities. Since then, PCR staff is receiving training on gender
issues and the gender dimension is now deeply rooted in the RRP with its incorporation into the project
development objective and activities (see Section B. 3 in the main text). In a nutshell, the approach builds
on: (i) clarifying what gender-differentiated project outcomes can be anticipated, and how different local
realities might affect women participation in project activities and benefits; (ii) support interventions that
will particularly improve women's access to transport services, based on a better understanding of why
women and men move around and whether women and men use different types of transport or the road
network differently; and (iii) foster implementation arrangements that will gradually but effectively
contribute to gender mainstreaming (i.e. addressing cultural attitudes towards women's mobility,
empowering women groups to enhance their participation in development initiatives and access to income
earning activities, etc.). The proposed project would support culturally acceptable measures to achieve
these goals. Gender impacts will be tracked through the project social and impact monitoring system.
About 175 km of local streets were paved in villages along the alignment of the roads rehabilitated under the program. This
component attempted to gain further support to the program and support the local municipalities in improving their
infrastructure to accommodate the increase in the traffic passing through the rural towns. The amount of investment for this
component was limited, but municipalities could contribute with their own resources to enhance the technical characteristics
of the projects.
Instituto Cuanto (2000), "Evaluaci6n de Impactos del Proyecto de Caminos Rurales: Informe Final," Mimeo, Lima, Peru.
The confidence level of the impact analysis is 92.5 percent, though for particular types of analysis (such as those on the
differing impact of projects depending on their presence within an economic coridor or an area of concentration of
investments) the survey is not statistically significant. Retrospective (before the project) and current (after the project) data
were both obtained through the surveys and interviews carried out in March 2000. For some variables it was very difficult to
obtain the past monetary value by just relying on personal recollection; consequently, in these instances present values of
both types of roads (i.e. sample and control roads) were compared, assuming past values were the same as current. Since
this is a very strong assumption, the resulting indicators do not have as high a level of confidence as that of indicators whose
baseline could be reconstructed.
Insfituto Cuanto (1994, 1997 and 2000) "Encuesta Nacional de Niveles de Vida", Lima, Peru.
- 126 -



78'               ~~~~~7 6'                   4                       712
E C U A D O R                                                                    C O L 0 M BI A
4'~~~~7 /'''0n\                                                                                                         '
TUM B O                             .  OA               e^>f                                ICtUIT05/ j
At661                            .    KIUIO c1 
Conco  TUMEES)                      ,/        5,:>          '2'                                                                                    1 >\   
RIA,     2rl:4E.: P AI ,>,            .On:                 o                   LORETQ
4PIU6A  o,,    _/41 nc2h'mbt ;           ,                     Sfs                   V               e       > fl     DEPARTMENTS COVERED BY THE PROJECT
:4: 1;^                      Y,  Q%B09uo,00y4~~      ..............                                                                       . A  )  AREAS WHERE ROADS WERE REHABILITATED
Royovor          ,,Ji, _          .   ' '     '            "' .                                           , -' ............................   t    .     DURING FIRST PROJECT AND MAINTENANCE
6'  '>      /  OImosT<"'v A                 Q<P't8    4P9UABW MO&LoB~A4BAJRgUP9UOS  ,o                   i                      PROGRAM IS UNDERWAY                 6
/  ChIrnporTt,ls    M<   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~        ~        K, ~PROVINCIAL ROAD MANAGEMENT PiLOT
o<AM$AYy       U E'   B'                 '   Toropot6O-&'t                                      k            -     RIVER TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT PILOT
*   CHIC     LF     7                                 N .                                  / .                 "'-"'' PAVED ROADS
pIm-nta.~',                                                                                               -      OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
-  - -  ittzTh'      'i< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     K      r~~~~~                                 RAILROADS
-- Poccnmory  egdlne; ,N   ,'                s;     (,            (   j                              ''' ---  RAIL FERRY
Chicom   ~~~~~~ (. SOoio6or4~~~~~~~~  S                                   + ~~AIRPCRTS
LAh4am  L                                          AN- R..Tc-oche  '    R.queno Kt.   PORTS
-  TRUJLI.          oshrsUIe CR66 '~'N   o,,co         'V     ~     H, -'-  RIVERS                                                             B
UR   ;tILU.                              ¶                       -,c0Ilp0                           ELEVATIONS OVER 2,000 METERS
-- Xt3  r              a        -  r ,r'              f /X  ,Mco           ¼            -"'--    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
-  - -             0C,roz   ',,         'R                     --AK ,N <_,IN                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-  -            9IIJEAJ        NL14                                    I.; oi MI   
XQm  HARAZl                                 S. 
,- , .-  C'QPrno#Cr    'N46ANuC0              <*          /        jUCAYALI
'T'       -  - -9 - I M A u o,, ., y                '                          Bolognosi              *t---    -'/                                  A'
LI I A    ir        " '            K;.B                                                        A      L
Clsooco    wYanBos""' ^       r40204 I)fYN I N
4;.  -. : :    :.ilMAoo4H>pe{WCFbYQ | t3  5 ,> L,  I^-                       .AI                                    12I
;<"          (      0'        N,,   -                     0ONA\
i~ ~~~Vco                                                Go YYO    -  Co\bmb   . ilobomb\X  (> o
11    .   .   :   :            ' ~~~~~~~   9         t  ' Y             8 tq,dX ~~~~~~~R I Mt A C  J S    t                        ,     1
4;  (   HUANCA?JUCA     500S  LI        Cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
SECON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P RUR N S
Chro, Al      .      ,"'k"   . . N .      'A'   '            USC   o
.        AYA4 UCO  '::' 'S:h',I ,:o
P-ERU U                                                         AREQUIP ''
16'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
SECOND RURALI' RADS PROJECT-aClrd[4:- ~-6
DCEPARTMENTS :COVERED Y THE PROJECT'-
AND LOCTIN OF PILOT                                                               or:                          '        CO
hi   BOUA)     ,3               V
PASSnTOp04 pd wed B'' '1 MopOeoo Oa-at I.. ar/a Roo                                             / TAC          "
__________                               4;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



