                                                                                             87525

                                                                                       CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                         EDS2001-0295
                                                                                             June 18,2001
                                                                                              05:59:17 PM



  Statement by Matthias Meyer
  Date ofMeeting: June 19, 2001

Peru: Country Assistance Strategv Progress Report, Programmatic Social Reform Loan, and
                               Second Rural Roads Project



  We welcome the discussion of this CAS Progress Report together with the proposed
  Programmatic Social Reform Loan and the Second Rural Roads Project. We thank staff for a
  very clear CAS progress report with a candid assessment of the recent developments in Peru. We
  congratulate the transition government for the various initiatives it has started in the right
  direction (stabilization of economy, structural reforms, fight against corruption, etc.).

  Due to the transitional arrangements and the political insecurities, I agree with staffs proposal
  for an interim CAS for the next 9 to 12 months, before a full CAS will be elaborated with a new
  government firmly in place. Considering that poverty is still widespread (about 50% of
  population are considered poor), I agree with the focus on poverty reduction of the proposed
  interim CAS. I also support the main directions as mentioned in para 27: stable political and
  economic transition to a new government; restoring of economic growth; reversing the recent
  deterioration in poverty indicators; and supporting institutional development through structural
  reforms and capacity building. In this context, I can also support the two proposed loans, i.e. the
  first Programmatic Social Reform Loan, and the Second Rural Roads Project.

  This statement focuses mainly on the CAS Progress Report and provides a few observations on
  the Programmatic Social Reform Loan (PSRL) as well as on the Second Rural Roads
  Project (RRP).


  CAS Progress Report:

  On the background of important political transition to a democratic Government, a deteriorating
  economic context and a worsening poverty situation (mainly indigenous people), this progress
  report provides an accurate picture of recent developments in Peru and a candid assessments of
  the challenges ahead. In the poverty context, the issue of unemployment deserves special
  attention and we would like to hear from staff what specific strategies the Bank will use to
  address this issue. We also miss the mentioning of gender issues and how they are going to be
  addressed.
                                                                   2




Realizing that Peru goes through a difficult economic situation, we welcome the Government's
intention to protect social expenditures. The PSRL aims at assisting the Government in this
endeavor ;1nd we urge the incoming Government to sustain public expenditures in social sectors.
Considering the weak institutions, especially at local government level (municipalities), and
combined with the fact that structural reforms were almost halted since 1997, it is important to
regain momentum in the reform process and to specifically improve public expenditure
management. To render it more transparent and accountable, a comprehensive PEM system
should be introduced and based on medium tenn expenditure plans it should also comprise
annual PERs. Taking into account the backlog in structural reforms and the institutional
weaknesses, the projected increase in growth from 2.5% in 2001 to 5% in 2002 (Table 2 on page
8) seems to me over-ambitious, particularly during an year of political transition.

For the sustainability of social programs at the local level (service delivery in education, health,
etc.), it is important to strengthen local government institutions. In this relationship, we urge the
new government to initiate a decentralization program which would lead to devolution to
municipalities. To successfully strengthen the local institutions and their capacities, a consistent
decentralization to local governments would be a prerequisite. Only in this manner, could social
services to the people and poor be improved and sustained. I welcome in this respect the PSRL
and its intended support in this direction. In this connection, I would also like to see that PIUs
(like the PCR in the rural roads program, see below) are no longer used by the Bank. As we long
know, such PIUs are not sustainable and generally prevent the Bank's operations from adequately
strengthening local institutions.

We are encouraged by the joint work with WBI in the fight against corruption. We urge the
incoming government to maintain the drive presently initiated in fighting corruption and to
prepare a comprehensive strategy. In this respect, I assume that the fourth trigger on
transparency for the low case scenario under the interim CAS (para 35 on page 14) includes the
issue of corruption. Could staff clarify. We understand that in the present situation of political
change and uncertainties reforms of the legal sector are not very opportune, but would like to see
such reforms discussed as early as possible to strengthen and sustain the focus on improving
governance in general.

In light of poverty reduction, I would like to see a stronger focus on poverty also in IFC's
strategy. I appreciate the intention to associate GEF funding with Bank lending in order to
exploit synergies between development and environment and am looking forward to a deeper
analyses of such opportunities in the context of a full CAS.

We congratulate Bank's field staff for a well functioning coordination among the multilateral
institutions, but wonder why nothing is mentioned in this report on a broader coordination among
all donors, including bilaterals. The report correctly states that such coordination is important
also to secure adequate and continuous funding for Peru's development program. I would like to
know from staff in this respect, how far discussions have gone in Peru about making use of
SWAps and harmonization of procedures.



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                  3



As the CAS report correctly states, the main risks are of political nature and will have to be
assessed based on first experiences with the incoming government to subsequently be addressed
in a full CAS.



Programmatic Social Reform Loan:

As stated above, we welcome this loan which should assist the Peruvian authorities to stabilize
the economic situation and to safeguard critical social expenditures. The aim for decentralization
is also very welcome - as mentioned above- but it will not come automatic and it will not be
easy. It needs a consistent strategy and an adequate monitoring of associated risks by the Bank.
In this connection, I would also be interested to hear more from staff about the planned up-front
triggers for the foreseen second programmatic loan.



Second Rural Roads Project:

I appreciate that this second rural roads project builds on the lessons learnt from the first one.
We also understand that there is a good ex-ante assessment ofthe socioeconomic situation in the
project areas (established under the first project), against which the project impact can be
measured. We wonder, however, why besides the access to health posts, the access to schools
and the improved access to markets (important for boosting agricultural production) are not also
included among the key indicators for such impact assessments (Chapter 2 on page 2 ofPAD,
and Annex 1).

Why is it still the intention to implement this project under a PIU (PCR, Chapter 4 on page 14 of
the PAD) which will hamper the strengthening of local institutions under a decentralization
exercise (cf. also comments above). Could staff elaborate.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
