                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                          Report No:ICR0000366




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-46140)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                     FOR THE

                        SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT


                                    June 5, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2007)
                                 Currency Unit = Peruvian Nuevo Sol
                                     3.175 PEN = US$1


                                            Fiscal Year
                                   January 1 ­ December 31




                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT  Average Annual Daily Traffic                      MEMV         Micro-Empresas de Mantenimiento Vial
                                                                     (Micro-enterprises for Road Maintenance)
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                       M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
CBA   Cost Benefit Analysis                             MTC          Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones
                                                                     (Ministry of Transport and Communications)
CEA   Cost Effectiveness Analysis                       NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
CND   Consejo Nacional de Descentralización             NMT          Non-Motorized Transport
      (National Decentralization Council)
CVR   Comité Vial Rural                                 NPV          Net Present Value
      (Rural Road Committee)
ERR   Economic Rate of Return                           PAD          Project Appraisal Document
ESW   Economic and Sector Work                          PDO          Project Development Objective
FM    Financial Management                              PII          Provincial Infrastructure Institute
GIS   Geographic Information System                     PPS          Plan Piloto Selva
                                                                     (Pilot Plan for the Selva macro-region)
HDM   Highway Development and Management (model)        PRI          Provincial Road Institute
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and         RED          Roads Economic Decision (model)
      Development
ICR   Implementation Completion Report                  RIPA         Road Institute for the Province of Arequipa
IADB  Inter-American Development Bank                   SIAF         Sistema Integral de Administración Financiera
                                                                     (Nacional System of Public Investment)
ISR   Implementation Status Report                      SIGAT        Sistema de Gestión Administrativa y Técnica
                                                                     (System for Technical and Administrative
                                                                     Management)
LAC   Latin America and Caribbean region                SIM          Sector Investment & Maintenance loan
LDW   Local Development Window                          SNIP         Sistema Nacional de Inversión Publica
                                                                     (National Public Investment System)
MDG   Millenium Development Goal                        SUNAT        Superintendencia Nacional de Administración
                                                                     Tributaria (National Agency for Tax Management)
MEF   Ministry of Economy and Finance                   WB           World Bank


           Vice President:                         Pamela Cox
           Country Director:                       Marcelo Giugale
           Sector Manager:                         Jose Luis Irigoyen
           Project Team Leader:                    Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge

                                                   Peru

                            Second Rural Roads Project


                                           CONTENTS


Data Sheet...............................................................................................i
   A. Basic Information...............................................................................i
   B. Key Dates........................................................................................i
   C. Ratings Summary..............................................................................i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes...................................................................ii
   E. Bank Staff......................................................................................ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis................................................................iii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs...................................................vi
   H. Restructuring..................................................................................vi
   I. Disbursement Graph........................................................................vii

1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design:.............................................. 1
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 12
3.  Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 22
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 33
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 35
6.  Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 39
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 43

Annex 1.   Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 45
Annex 2.   Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 47
Annex 3.   Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 60
Annex 4.   Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 67
Annex 5.   Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 69
Annex 6.   Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................. 84
Annex 7.   Summary of Borrower's ICR........................................................................ 94
Annex 8.   Comments of Cofinancier........................................................................... 120
Annex 9.   List of Supporting Documents.................................................................... 122

MAPS IBRD 35059, IBRD 35515, IBRD 35516........................................................... 123

A. Basic Information

                                                                     SECOND RURAL
Country:                Peru                   Project Name:
                                                                     ROADS PROJECT
Project ID:             P044601                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-46140
ICR Date:               06/05/2007             ICR Type:             Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                    Borrower:
                                                                     PERU
Original Total
                        USD 50.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 48.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Provias Rural, renamed Provias Descentralizado in 2006
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Inter-American Development Bank (IADB)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/23/2000     Effectiveness:        12/20/2001        12/20/2001
Appraisal:             10/23/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/19/2001     Mid-term Review:      04/19/2004        04/19/2004
                                      Closing:              06/30/2005        11/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory    Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory    Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Highly Satisfactory    Performance:          Highly Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 1                  2
Micro- and SME finance                                            2                  2
Ports, waterways and shipping                                     4                  2
Roads and highways                                               90                 90
Sub-national government administration                            3                  4


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                            Primary          Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                   Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Primary          Primary
Rural non-farm income generation                                Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                               Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                         David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Marcelo Giugale                    Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:           Jose Luis Irigoyen                 Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:      Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge           Jose Luis Irigoyen
ICR Team Leader:          Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge
ICR Primary Author:       Julie Babinard




                                               ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the access of rural poor to basic social services, market integrating
infrastructure and income-generating activities with gender equity, to help alleviate rural
poverty and raise the living standards of rural communities. Specific objectives are: (a) to
integrate poorly accessible zones to social services and regional economic centers; (b)
generate employment in rural areas; and (c) strengthen local institutional capacity to
manage rural roads on a sustainable basis and launch community-based development
initiatives.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
None

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Beneficiaries in the project area who are interlinked by a reliable and affordable
                transportation system (million people)
Value
quantitative or 0                            3.5 million                        3.5 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                     11/30/2006                        11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The project end target had been met (the rural population of the 12 departments

achievement)    where the project has been active amounts to 3.5 million).

Indicator 2 :   Decreased travel time to markets and district centers after rehabilitation of
                project road
Value
quantitative or 0                            -40%                              -53%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                     11/30/2006                        11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The project end target has been exceeded.

achievement)    Achievement: 132%

Indicator 3 :   Increased availability of freight and passenger transport services (volume)
Value
quantitative or 0                            +30%                              +115%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                     11/30/2006                        11/30/2006

Comments        The project end target has been exceeded. However, the statistical significance of

(incl. %        this result is low. Traffic has increased by 132% and this figure is statistically

achievement)    significant at 10%.
                Achievement: 383%
Indicator 4 :   Reduced cost of freight and passenger transport services


                                                 iii

Value
quantitative or 0                             -15%                                Freight: -18%

Qualitative)                                                                      Passengers: -78%

Date achieved 09/30/2001                     11/30/2006                           11/30/2006

Comments        The project end target has been exceeded. The freight's figure has a low

(incl. %        statistical significance, but the passengers' figure is statistically significant at

achievement)    5%.
                Achievement: 120% and 520%

Indicator 5 :   Number of one-year equivalent seasonal unskilled jobs generated by road
                rehabilitation works
Value
quantitative or 0                             10,000                              27,514
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                     11/30/2006                           11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The project end target has been exceeded.

achievement)    Achievement: 275%

Indicator 6 :   Number of one-year equivalent permanent unskilled jobs generated by road
                maintenance works
Value
quantitative or 4,618                         5,500                               5,997
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                     11/30/2006                           11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The project end target has been exceeded.

achievement)    Achievement: 109%

                Number of community organizations and/or micro-enterprises which are engaged

Indicator 7 :   in local development initiatives/income-earning undertakings identified through
                the Local Development Window (LDW), with participation of women above
                30%
Value
quantitative or 0                             300                                 167
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                     11/30/2006                           11/30/2006

Comments        The figure presented corresponds to a more restrictive definition of initiatives

(incl. %        identified through the LDW since it corresponds to initiatives that reached

achievement)    "feasibility stage". Otherwise, it jumps to 850.
                Achievement: 55%
                % of provincial municipalities co-financing with Provias the maintenance of the
Indicator 8 :   rural road network rehabilitated in their jurisdictions through the arrangements
                set up under the project
Value
quantitative or 0                            100                                  93
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                     11/30/2006                           11/30/2006
Comments        This target had to be reached for each Peruvian fiscal year and was measured by
(incl. %        the proportion of municipalities that signed a financing agreement with Provias
achievement)    for road maintenance. In 2006, the target has been partially met.



                                                  iv

               Achievement: 93%

Indicator 9 :   Number of provincial municipalities graduated under the program and assuming
                full responsibility for execution of project activities
Value
quantitative or 0                           12                                  99
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                    11/30/2006                          11/30/2006

Comments        The project end target has been exceeded. This is one of the most significant

(incl. %        project achievements, particularly in the broader context of Peru's

achievement)    decentralization reforms.
                Achievement: 825%

Indicator 10 :  Number of micro-enterprises engaged under contracts to deliver quality
                maintenance
Value
quantitative or 340                         470                                 532
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                    11/30/2006                          11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The project end target has been exceeded.

achievement)    Achievement: 113%


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval            Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Rural roads rehabilitated to an adequate level of trafficability (km)
Value
(quantitative   0                           3,225                               4,039
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                    11/30/2006                          11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The project end target has been exceeded.

achievement)    Achievement: 125%

Indicator 2 :   Connecting primary and secondary roads rehabilitated to "good" condition (km)
Value
(quantitative   0                           350                                 653
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                    11/30/2006                          11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The project end target has been exceeded.

achievement)    Achievement: 186%

Indicator 3 :   Roads routinely maintained at project standards by micro-enterprises formed and
                trained under the project (km)
Value
(quantitative   11,295                      13,500                              14,750
or Qualitative)



                                                 v

Date achieved 09/30/2001                  11/30/2006                   11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The project end target has been exceeded.

achievement)   Achievement: 109%

Indicator 4 :  Community tracks for non-motorized transport improved (km)
Value
(quantitative  0                         3,100                         3,465
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2001                  11/30/2006                   11/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The project end target has been exceeded.

achievement)   Achievement: 112%


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                        IP            Disbursements
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     08/07/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     05/28/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 4.53
  3     11/27/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 6.48
  4     02/26/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               10.40
  5     05/30/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               12.86
  6     11/13/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               19.15
  7     05/25/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               23.68
  8     11/29/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               27.16
  9     04/04/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               30.78
  10    10/27/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               34.99
  11    06/06/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory               42.65
  12    12/04/2006      Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory            48.19



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design:

1.1     Context at Appraisal:

Country background. The overarching objective of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) in Peru has been to support the Government of Peru in achieving economic growth
and a sustained and continuous reduction of poverty. The primary elements of the anti-
poverty program have consisted of raising the quality and improving the access of the
poor to productivity-increasing human capital, market-integrating infrastructure, and the
full rights and opportunities of private ownership. The Peruvian Government also
engaged in a large scale decentralization process to improve both the coverage of rural
infrastructure and the quality of public expenditures.

The project was presented in the context of the 2001 CAS Progress Report, which aimed
to assist the Government in reviving the country's economy following the chain of
adverse exogenous shocks that hit the country in the 1997-2000 period. In contrast to the
significant growth period of the early 1990s (at 5.7 percent per year between 1991-1997),
Peru experienced a severe economic recession during the 1997-2000 period (with an
annual economic growth rate of 0.9 percent during 1997-2000), partly due to external
shocks such as the Asian and Russian crises, the devaluation of the Brazilian currency,
and El Niño. During that period, the economy stagnated, the fiscal deficit increased as did
the rate of poverty (the poverty rate was estimated to have risen again to 54 percent by
2000), and private investment declined.

Main sector issues. Poverty in Peru had been heavily concentrated in rural areas, with
over half of the rural Peruvians considered extremely poor, living on less than US$1 a
day. The incidence of poverty has varied across regions; with poverty rates in the Sierra
(highlands) and Selva (jungle) nearly double that of coastal regions. More than half of the
extremely poor population resided in the rural sierra, although it had less than a quarter of
the national population. Indigenous people comprised an estimated 15 percent of the
population but had a poverty rate of 70 percent.

Further reduction of rural poverty rates was constrained by a number of rural transport
sector issues. Lack of an effective road network in Peru had kept rural communities and
the poor living in remote areas isolated and without opportunities for accessing markets,
jobs, and socio-economic services. Road density in Peru was lower than in most South
American countries or in countries with a similar level of development, with density of
6.7 km of asphalt roads per 1000 square kilometers or just over one-third of neighbors
such as Chile and Brazil. Peru's road network consisted of about 78,000 km with a large
unknown number of unclassified tracks that connected the dispersed population to the
rural road network. Despite a successful rural road program implemented with the
support of the WB and the IADB in the year 1995-2000, (which rehabilitated 8,900 km of
rural roads), about 80 percent of the 47,000 km of the rural road network was still in very
bad to barely acceptable condition which, combined with poor maintenance practices and
a lack of adequate drainage systems, made traveling a challenge for the nearly three
million people living in isolated villages in Peru's difficult mountainous terrain.



                                              1

Under these conditions, the level of motorized transport remained low, with only a few
vehicles venturing to reach rural communities and making the provision of transport
services unreliable. Vehicle ownership for most of the poor rural households remained
limited to only the most affordable types of non motorized vehicles. A large number of
communities relied exclusively on non-motorized transport for travel outside of their
settlements, often through neglected and unsafe paths.

The 1995 Rural Roads Program implemented by the Government of Peru, with support
from multilateral organizations, aimed to upgrade the condition of the rural road network
through the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and to establish mechanisms for the
maintenance of this infrastructure on a sustainable basis. The Peru Rural Roads Project,
which constituted the first phase of the program with a WB loan of US$90 million, aimed
to alleviate poverty and raise living standards in the 12 departments that ranked highest in
rural poverty, 10 in the Sierra (Ancash, Apurimac, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cusco,
Huancavelica, Huanuco, Junin, Pasco, and Puno), and 2 in the Selva (Madre de Dios and
San Martin). The project improved rural accessibility in 314 districts by rehabilitating
about 11,200 km of rural roads and key secondary roads connecting them to regional
centers, and about 3,000 km of paths for non-motorized transport. This first phase
demonstrated that the rehabilitation of rural road infrastructure, when immediately
followed by sustained maintenance performed through community-based organizations,
was a cost-effective way of restoring basic rural accessibility and could stimulate poverty
alleviation in the rural highlands of Peru. Rural communities realized that without
maintenance, and regardless of how well roads were rehabilitated, passage is
compromised and with it a wide array of services that affect their social and economic
livelihood. This first phase also provided important insights into the constraints faced by
central agencies to implement rural development programs.

The Second Roads Project was built on the impressive results of the first rural roads
project with the aim to deepen the impact of its activities in the same 12 departments. The
project aimed to focus investments in areas with high levels of poverty and emphasized
labor-intensive maintenance methods as a means to generate employment in those areas.
In this manner, the project would help improve the access of rural communities to
markets, on- and off-farm economic opportunities, and social services, thereby bringing
these communities into the economic mainstream--the essence of any poverty alleviation
program. The project also aimed to strengthen the institutional and financial sustainability
of rural road maintenance in order to enable a gradual transfer of responsibilities to local
governments. Finally, the project also piloted rural transport interventions customized to
the specific conditions of the Peruvian Selva and introduced a new mechanism (the
"Local Development Window") aimed at facilitating the emergence of productive
activities in the areas where transport conditions had improved.

Strategic choices for the project components were developed on the basis on cross-
sectoral dynamics that were identified as contributing to the persisting poor living
conditions of rural households:




                                              2

· Improving rural accessibility through rehabilitation of transport infrastructure.
  The inefficiency of the transport system continued to represent a significant
  constraint on the ability of rural households to access social and government
  services, such as health, education, justice, policing, and public registries. The
  project aimed to emphasize the connection of the benefited rural communities
  with a well-integrated and reliable road transport system through rehabilitation
  and maintenance of a "core" road network composed of rural roads and
  connecting primary and secondary roads. This strategy would help remove the
  bottlenecks constraining transport services in rural areas, maximize the population
  benefited and, overall, have a greater social and economic impact than in the case
  of isolated road improvements. Through improved road access, the project would
  also permit easier coordination among other rural development programs. Finally,
  by introducing local governments to the principle of "network" management
  (including the informal network of non-motorized tracks), it would significantly
  improve transport services.

· Integrating rural communities and producers to markets and business
  opportunities. Lack of a reliable transport system, reflected in high transport and
  transaction costs, hampered the capacity of rural farmers to access markets while
  influencing production costs, crop marketing decisions and ultimately farm
  income. Building on a strategic partnership with civil society, the project aimed to
  stimulate the creation of local business opportunities integrated with markets,
  combining     the  provision   of   technical   assistance   to   community-based
  organizations (including road committees and micro-enterprises that participate in
  the maintenance of rehabilitated rural roads and tracks) with a communication and
  community organization strategy to facilitate the realization of productive gains
  from the improvement of the rural roads network. This strategy aimed to develop
  more formal relationships between rural producers and markets through improved
  access to information and organization skills and strategic partnerships.

· Facilitating the empowerment of local organizations and vulnerable groups. Lack
  of mobility hindered opportunities for enhancing people capabilities and
  collective action for mutual benefit (referred to as "social capital"). The project
  aimed to enhance social capital building by establishing a "local development
  window" which would lead to positive changes in many aspects of women daily
  life, by supporting the following measures to engender project activities and
  promote women empowerment: (i) providing training on gender issues to program
  staff, majors and community leaders through the institutional development
  component; (ii) fostering implementation arrangements that will gradually but
  effectively contribute to gender mainstreaming; (iii) supporting through the
  "Local Development Window" specific programs and productive undertakings
  that would improve women's access to resources; and (iv) tracking gender
  impacts through the project's social and impact monitoring system to clarify what
  gender-differentiated project outcomes can be anticipated, and how different local
  realities might affect women's participation in project activities and benefits.
  While the project would not set "quotas", women's participation in micro-



                                       3

        enterprises would be monitored to ensure that the application of the methodology
        for selecting micro-enterprise members was not biased against women.

    · Strengthening the framework for decentralization and for rural road maintenance
        in particular. Peru's decentralization agenda aimed to develop capabilities and
        institutions at the local level and the transfer of resources to local governments. In
        support of this agenda, the project aimed to prepare local governments to manage,
        on a sustainable basis, the maintenance and upgrading of the rural road
        infrastructure under their jurisdiction (the municipal responsibility over rural
        transport infrastructure had been confirmed by the recently approved Transport
        Law). The project introduced local governments to key principles for systemic
        management of their rural road networks (including the informal network of non-
        motorized tracks) and supported: (i) a strong institutional strengthening
        component, with specific targets regarding the use of more effective management
        structures and tools; (ii) further deconcentration of project activities to project
        field units to explore arrangements for delegating responsibility through
        performance agreements; (iii) a pilot on decentralized management of provincial
        road networks to test the use of institutional and financial models, information
        reporting systems and appropriate mechanisms for the flow of funds; and (iv) a
        "graduation" policy to encourage the transfer of direct responsibility to local
        governments, under which municipalities that have assimilated the policies and
        practices supported by the project would become eligible for direct execution of
        project activities in subsequent phases of the rural roads program.

Rationale for Bank assistance. The Bank's key role in designing the Rural Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program had been well appreciated by the Borrower.
Bank involvement brought several "best practice" approaches such as the NMT
component, which were highly innovative and positive in their outcomes. Bank
assistance during the second phase sought to continue bringing global experience to
further and also increase the sustainability of rural road sector reforms, deepening the
consideration of social issues in alleviating rural poverty, and enhancing coordination
with other rural development programs. Also, the Bank could bring considerable
knowledge and experience as a result of its extensive worldwide involvement in the
transport sector and its analytical rigor in relating transport interventions with poverty
reduction. Finally, through its wide participation in most of Peru's poverty alleviation
programs in rural areas and its extensive involvement with civil society representatives,
the Bank had accumulated a substantial amount of knowledge on the large number of
programs presently underway and the issues that needed to be addressed to improve their
effectiveness.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators:

Overall Goal. The overall purpose of the proposed project was to increase access to basic
social services and economic and income-generating activities with gender equity, to help
alleviate rural poverty and raise living standards of rural communities in Peru. The
project was the second phase of the Rural Roads Program launched in 1995 to provide a



                                               4

well-integrated and reliable rural road system in the rural Sierra of Peru that could
complement the Government's multi-sectoral poverty reduction program. To do so, it
aimed to emphasize the creation of development opportunities through concerted local
interventions in order to enhance the impact of rural accessibility improvement on
poverty reduction. It also sought to strengthen the institutional and financial sustainability
of rural road maintenance in order to enable a gradual transfer of responsibilities to the
local government environment.

Specific Project Objectives. The specific project development objectives were to: (a)
integrate poorly accessible zones to social services and regional economic centers; (b)
generate employment in rural areas; and (c) strengthen local institutional capacity to
manage rural roads on a sustainable basis and launch community-based development
initiatives.

Key performance indicators. The key development outcomes and performance indicators
selected to measure achievement at the end of the project were as follows:

1. Poorly accessible rural zones integrated to social services and regional economic
drivers:
    · 3.5 million beneficiaries in the project area interlinked by a reliable and
        affordable transportation system;
    · travel time to markets and district centers decreased by 40 percent after
        rehabilitation of project roads; and
    · the availability of freight and passenger transport services increased by 30 percent
        and their cost reduced by 15 percent with respect to the levels reported in the
        baseline studies, three years after completion of road improvements.

2. Employment generated and creation of further income-earning activities stimulated in
rural areas:
    · 10,000 one-year equivalent seasonal unskilled jobs generated by road
        rehabilitation works;
    · 5,500 one-year equivalent permanent unskilled jobs generated by road
        maintenance works;
    · 300 community organizations and/or micro-enterprises engaged in local
        development initiatives/income-earning undertakings identified through the Local
        Development Window (LDW), with women participation above 30%.

3. Local institutional capacity strengthened to manage rural transport infrastructure on a
sustainable basis and launch community-based development initiatives:
    · 100% of provincial municipalities co-finance with the Rural Roads Program the
        maintenance of the rural road network rehabilitated in their jurisdictions through
        the arrangements set up under the project;
    · At least 12 provincial municipalities graduated under the program assume full
        responsibility for execution of project activities;
    · 470 micro-enterprises engaged under contracts to deliver quality maintenance.




                                              5

In addition, the project's contribution towards the goal of reducing rural poverty and
improving living standards was to be measured at the project's end in terms of:
    · an overall reduction of the incidence of poverty and extreme poverty by 1 and 2
        percentage points, respectively, in the areas benefited by the project;
    · an overall reduction of the poverty gap by 1.5 and 2.2 percentage points in areas
        served by the rehabilitated rural roads and non-motorized tracks, respectively;
    · an increase in the number of visits to health posts and hospitals by 20 percent,
        reflecting both greater access and consumption capacity; and
    · a gradual diversification of the income-generation structure and more dynamic
        labor markets in areas benefited by the project (e.g., percentage of wage-earned
        income/time earning wage increased, percentage of non-agriculture income
        increased).

1.3     Revised PDO:

There were no revisions to the project objectives.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries:

Three main groups were identified as beneficiaries of the project: 1) Rural population of
3.5 million living in the 12 departments targeted, representing about 70 percent of the
rural population of Peru and about 20 percent of the total. In these rural communities
women were expected to constitute a major beneficiary group because of expected better
access to social services, such as schools and hospitals, and their potential involvement in
road work activities; 2) Small enterprises and community groups, which would be formed
or strengthened as a result of their involvement in the execution of the works financed by
the project. Workers employed by the project would improve their skills and
qualifications, thereby increasing their chances for employment after project completion.
Small firms and micro-enterprises created under the project would develop their
entrepreneurial and organizational skills, making them more competitive with greater
access to a reliable cash-flow; the Local Development Window would also promote the
emergence of productive activities and also strengthen the entrepreneurial capacity of the
targeted rural areas; 3) The nearly 110 provincial municipalities and their respective
district municipalities, which would be exposed to institutional and financial
arrangements for a more cost-effective management of their rural roads networks in the
broader context of the decentralization reforms.

1.5     Original Components:

The project included the six following components:

Component 1: Rehabilitation of Rural Roads and Connecting Primary and Secondary
Roads. This component aimed to finance the rehabilitation of about 3,575 km of roads in
the 12 participant departments in order to improve accessibility to rural areas as well as
restore operating conditions along regional economic road corridors. About 3,225 km of
rural roads were envisaged to be rehabilitated (with a traffic pattern ranging from a few



                                              6

vehicles a day up to 15-20 vehicles on peak market days, mostly micro-buses and 3 ton
trucks). Primary and secondary roads that give access to the rural road systems were also
to be rehabilitated and connected with markets and economic centers. These were
unpaved roads that carry traffic in the range of 50 to 200 vehicles per day and were left in
deplorable condition due to lack of regular maintenance. Provias had already
rehabilitated about 2,300 km of primary and mostly secondary roads during the first
phase of the Peru Rural Roads Program, so the 350 km planned under the project
consisted of carefully selected roads that were critical to integrating into consolidated
networks all the roads restored under the program. Most of the works were to be
contracted out to small local contractors, to make use of the labor force available from,
and to increase farm incomes for, the benefited communities during periods of reduced
agriculture activity, notably between March and September in the Sierra, which is the dry
season when most of the works were to be carried out.

Component 2: Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Rural Roads and Connecting
Primary and Secondary Roads. This component sought to give continuity to, and further
strengthen, the routine maintenance system set up during the first phase of the program. It
entailed maintaining about 11,300 km of roads at the beginning of the project to about
13,495 km at the end of the project. The road network in most of the Sierra region first
had to receive rehabilitation before maintenance activities could begin. Subsequent
routine road maintenance would consist of simple works regularly performed throughout
the year to maintain the drainage systems (ditches, culverts, vegetation) and the running
surface (filling potholes and ruts, maintaining the surface camber), supplemented from
time to time with spot interventions to restore passage, which is needed typically during
the rainy season between December and April.

Routine maintenance of the roads rehabilitated through the project would be co-financed
by local governments, through a specific arrangement (The Maintenance Cofinancing
Mechanism). The project would finance these activities, taking into consideration that
most Peruvian municipalities have very limited resources available for recurrent
expenditures, especially in the poorest areas which are the main target of the project.
However, other roads could also be included if local governments committed themselves
to supporting these activities. Maintenance of roads built or rehabilitated by other rural
development programs could also be eligible for project support, provided they were
linked with or in the vicinities of road sub-projects implemented under the project.

The project extensively relied on the provision of services through the private sector.
However, municipalities and associations of municipalities capable of setting up an
efficient plant pool could be eligible up to a certain amount to undertake periodic
maintenance works under agreements that would set out program targets and quality
standards to be met, as well as the standard rates to compensate the municipalities upon
completion of the agreed works.

Component 3: Improvement of Non-Motorized Rural Transport. This component
provided local governments and communities with a tool to assist them in the formulation
of coherent programs for the management and maintenance of village level infrastructure



                                              7

and improvement of transport technology. To this end, this component was to finance: (i)
technical assistance for village-level infrastructure management. Participant communities
would be a determinant in the selection, planning, implementation and financing of the
proposed works. The project would continue relying on NGOs with an established
reputation in the area to design, organize the community into road committees, and
supervise the works. District authorities would oversee the programs and organize at least
twice a year "faenas comunales" to maintain the improved paths; (ii) physical works
aimed at removing unsafe spots and other bottlenecks constraining the use of the
intermediate means of transport and facilities aimed at improving rural transport services
and conditions, including "tambos" for people to rest and keep safe animals and goods
during long journeys. The project was to finance 70 percent of the total cost estimated by
Provias for the proposed works based on standard designs and unit costs. This was to
fully cover the cost of materials, equipment and skilled labor, while part of the unskilled
labor would be contributed by the community.

It was anticipated that the project would have a positive indirect impact on making rural
transport more efficient and affordable by raising awareness of the importance of
transport services over the unclassified village network through this component, helping
design ad-hoc local programs to mobilize additional financial aid for this or other
purposes (see the local development window in component 6.4), and generating
supplemental income through implementation of the road components.

Component 4: Provincial Road Management Pilot. The proposed pilot aimed to test an
institutional model for managing the rural road network at the provincial level, in which
the municipal authorities of the province (provincial and district municipalities) would
jointly assume responsibility over the development and condition of a core provincial
road network. This would prevent the current institutional and financial segmentation
hindering municipalities from undertaking integrated initiatives or responsibilities. The
province of Arequipa was chosen to start the pilot on account of the strong commitment
demonstrated by the provincial authorities to the pilot goals and the availability of basic
institutional capacity on which to build on to carry out the up-front work and implement
the pilot later on with greater chance of success.

The pilot was designed building on a series of participatory workshops that involved
provincial and district officials as well as key representatives of the business community
with vested interests in good roads. Municipal authorities agreed upon the institutional
and financial set up to carry out the pilot and on the provincial road plan with the core
investments proposed for funding. The Assembly of Mayors of the province issued the
ordinance establishing the Road Institute for the Province of Arequipa (RIPA), a
decentralized public agency with the specific mandate to act on behalf of all the
participating municipalities with autonomy to contract out works and services (which
may extend beyond the boundaries of a specific district) and administer the resources
channeled from various sources (i.e., central government through Provias, participant
local governments), and with its own budget separate from those of other provincial
organizations.




                                              8

As part of the proposed Pilot, the project would finance pre-investment studies and works
for rehabilitation of about 200 km of priority roads, and co-finance on a declining basis
their subsequent routine maintenance costs for up to three years. Carried out under close
monitoring by Provias, these activities would serve as a controlled test of a model for
decentralized road management, with the expectation to expand to other provinces the
model and implementation arrangements tested under the pilot, once they prove to be
adequate and once other provinces achieve the basic institutional and financial capacity to
implement them.

The pilot would also help Provias develop skills and tools in areas such as supervising
the execution of provincial agreements for decentralized management of rural road
programs, setting goals and time frames for transferring responsibility to other participant
provinces, and ultimately overseeing the performance of rural road systems and the local
agencies that manage them.

Component 5: River Transport Improvement Pilot. This pilot aimed to develop a strategic
framework for improving rural accessibility in the Selva region and thereby enable
sustainable social and economic development in these areas. The pilot sought to ascertain
the set of technical, institutional, social, environmental and economic guidelines needed
for putting in place an effective inter-modal transportation system, capable of: (i)
addressing the current accessibility constraints faced by the impoverished communities
living along or near the rivers, in terms of access to basic services, regional markets,
income-earning activities, (ii) averting the potential direct or indirect negative impacts
induced by such system on the fragile ecosystems of the Peruvian Amazonia; and (iii)
assisting local governments in creating economic opportunities that could lead to a more
sustainable and poverty reducing development of these areas.

The pilot was to be carried out in a purposely limited area, in just three locations along
the Ucayali river between Pucallpa and Atalaya: Masisea, Bolognesi/Nueva Italia and
Nueva Requena (the latter actually along the Aguaytia river) and entailed: (i) completion
of environmental, social and economic impact assessments for each of the areas selected
and the corresponding engineering studies; (ii) construction of safe moorings (small
wharves) and durable landing facilities to improve cargo handling and make passenger
and workers' access safer and easier; (iii) spot rehabilitation of the existing rural roads
that connect communities to the improved landing facilities; (iv) rehabilitation of non-
motorized tracks that connect with landing facilities and rural roads rehabilitated under
the pilot; (v) design and implementation of a participatory monitoring and evaluation
system to keep track of outcomes and medium term direct and indirect impacts; and (vi)
establishment of partnerships for concerted interventions in the pilot area beyond the
transport sector.

Riverside communities that were consulted prior to the project believed that only more
ambitious road investments would solve their integration problems and get out of
poverty. Thus, the pilot supported a more holistic view of development interventions, in
which the proposed transport improvements were to be accompanied by: (i) technical
assistance in areas such as land use planning and marketing or commercialization



                                               9

strategies for local products; (ii) strategic partnerships to strengthen local organizations
and obtain technical and financial support to develop productive projects; and (iii)
interventions in other sectors such as water, sanitation, health and education.

The monitoring and evaluation of positive and negative changes as a result of each
location was to take place at two levels. Satellite imaging would be used for monitoring
changes at a regional or meso-level, such as land use, deforestation, fire points, and
agricultural crops. Surveys, interviews with focus groups, and community workshops
would be used for monitoring local changes and conflicts at an intra and inter-village
level. The system envisaged intense involvement of civil society, community
organizations, and the population at large in the planned monitoring activities.

Component 6: Institutional Development. This component aimed to further develop the
institutional building program started under the first phase and was organized into the
following four streams:

1) Improving rural transport policy and strategies at a central level. The project would
strengthen MTC's capacity to: (i) formulate a policy framework and strategy for rural
transport (infrastructure and services) consistent with the progress made on the
decentralization and poverty reduction agendas and the various regulations mandated by
the Transport Law (approved in October 1999); (ii) engage in a collaborative dialogue
with other Ministries on national priority themes whose domain cuts across sectors (i.e.,
decentralization, poverty reduction); (iii) program investments in coordination with other
agencies within and outside MTC (including those in charge of poverty reduction
programs, especially relevant for the project); (iv) monitor the performance of the sector
and of the rural transport system in particular, and compliance with those investment
programs critical to improving rural transport services.

This component would also assist Provias in further strengthening the road maintenance
system and would incorporate into the system best practices and productivity gains
observed during its application under the first project, establish different standards and
costs in accordance with road characteristics and usage, and transfer more responsibility
to local governments in line with the phasing in of the maintenance co-financing
mechanism.

In addition, Provias staff would receive training on areas that either demanded new skills
or would receive more attention during the second phase of the program, such as
handling the dialogue with municipalities, approaches to strengthening community
organizations, and gender issues. This training would facilitate the accomplishment of
other activities planned under the project to encourage gender equality in rights,
resources and voice.

The project would also help Provias widen its contacts with civil society and Peruvian
think-tanks involved in rural development research activities. The workshops and surveys
carried out under the project would contribute to establishing a "forum", where project
activities and the data gathered through them could support further research activities by



                                              10

public and/or private organizations, and where researchers and think-tanks could
contribute through their knowledge and findings of their own research activities to a
better understanding of rural poverty links and the formulation of more effective
strategies for a sustainable reduction of rural poverty.

2) Improving Planning and Management of Rural Roads. The project aimed to provide
technical assistance to provincial and district municipalities to strengthen their capacity
to: (i) manage the core road network under their jurisdiction through efficient
participatory planning and accurate road inventories; (ii) carry out and increasingly
finance road maintenance operations (routine and periodic); and (iii) help the
communities in their jurisdiction to organize and maintain the network of community
tracks and paths that serve them through faenas comunales and other forms of collective
action.

The institutional program would expose all participating municipalities to the
organizational shortcuts, the simple planning and budgeting systems, and the extensive
use of labor-based methods and contract arrangements promoted under the project. The
program would set up a demand-driven, flexible assistance agenda for provincial
municipalities to becoming eligible for direct execution. It would also finance consultant
services, participatory planning and evaluation processes, and provide training on-the-job
only in those municipalities who request the assistance and therefore their majors are
committed to leading the program. Finally, the program would involve road users and
other stakeholders in the road management process to increase municipalities'
accountability.

3) Developing community-based micro-enterprises for road maintenance. The project
would finance all activities related to: (i) promoting the development of micro-enterprises
among leaders of the communities and base organizations; (ii) assisting micro-enterprises
throughout their constitution, including legal and technical advice; (iii) contracting out to
micro-enterprises maintenance of all roads rehabilitated under the project; (iv) putting in
place adequate contract arrangements and payment systems; (v) providing on-the-job
assistance training on technical, work organization, financial management/accounting,
and    business    administration    skills   until  micro-enterprise   members     develop
entrepreneurial capacity; (vi) supervising and monitoring maintenance works and micro-
enterprise activities to ensure smooth implementation of the program; and (vii)
supporting a dissemination campaign among local governments to sensitize them about
the benefits of the micro-enterprise program.

4) Strengthening rural communities and households' capacity to create and engage in
social and economic development opportunities. This component would establish a
"local development window" (LDW) through a network of strategic partnerships with
civil society, government and donor organizations in order to: (i) to strengthen the rural
population's relationships with dynamic networks of markets and institutions (e.g.,
industrialists, traders, organizers of production networks) that can mediate their access to
productive resources and to wider, higher-value markets and chains of production; (ii) to
assist community organizations and individuals in identifying, structuring and financing



                                               11

local initiatives and productive undertakings that are better linked to market demands
through demand-driven technical assistance and partnerships between technical
assistance providers, regional business operators, financial intermediaries, investors and
donors; (iii) to empower community grassroots institutions and individuals by building
up the basic human and social capabilities (i.e., skills, social capital) needed to take a
proactive role in initiating or expanding development activity and become agents of
change in their communities; and (iv) to establish a private sector-led vehicle for
coordinating, and channeling specialized assistance, and monitoring its results, without
overwhelming Provias with activities that demand expertise in diverse fields and time
consuming contacts with actors and grassroots groups at the local level, which are far
beyond the reach of Provias. The LDW would mobilize demand-driven technical
assistance for identification of opportunities and design of micro-businesses and
productive projects.

To facilitate interactions between rural communities, grassroots groups and key external
actors, it was agreed that the LDW would be coordinated by an NGO with an established
reputation in working with communities and micro-enterprises in rural areas, and capable
of operating in a highly decentralized manner. In this context, CARITAS-Peru was
selected based on its ability to perform the role of coordinator with its 48 diocesan
organizations spread over the country, and for its experience in participatory social and
needs assessments and the structuring of local development initiatives.

1.6     Other significant changes:

None

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry:

The project was built on the successful experience and as a continuation of the first rural
roads project, taking into consideration the experience developed by the Bank to improve
rural road access while strengthening the framework for decentralization and for rural
road maintenance in particular.

Lessons from Bank experience on rural roads. Review of past Bank experience on rural
roads projects demonstrated that the principal problems in achieving sustainable results
had been: institutional weaknesses and inadequate coordination, leading to delays in
implementation and incomplete execution of the works; inadequate monitoring of results;
weak sustainability, as the necessary institutional and financial frameworks were rarely
addressed. Bank-wide experience resulted in the following advice for the design of the
rural roads program: (i) a strong government commitment and beneficiary participation in
defining priorities and funding for maintenance to ensure the sustainability of services
and infrastructure; (ii) a central focal point should be established for formulating and
reviewing rural roads policy, for project planning and execution, and for coordination
between the Ministries of Agriculture, Interior and Transport; (iii) a strong and dedicated



                                             12

project management team should be created to assure timely implementation and
adequate monitoring of the project; (iv) the capacity for labor-based methods and
intermediate means of transport should be developed; (v) the methodology to screen road
subprojects should be agreed with the Borrower and based on sound economic analysis
(including social benefits estimation and cost-effectiveness approach for basic access);
and (vi) a system to monitor the benefits of road subprojects during and after
implementation of the project should be established early in the implementation period.
Linking poverty with transport operations also became a strong underlying objective of
the road program, following the realization that transport operations can contribute to
poverty reduction both through direct or indirect approaches.

Lessons from the first phase of the road program. The overall success of the first phase of
the road program, combined with strong support from the various levels of government,
facilitated the preparation and design of the second phase of the program and was also
critical in confirming the validity and strategies underlying its design. The first phase
surpassed the investment targets agreed upon appraisal and fulfilled critical institutional
strengthening factors such as micro-enterprise development. Provias Rural ­ now
Provias Descentralizado, the specialized unit in charge of implementing the project,
played a positive role in achieving success by continuously seeking a more
comprehensive response to rural poverty and community development issues. Labor-
intensive methods in road work, where relatively low wages make them cost-effective,
provided a sustainable source of supplementary employment for the poor, especially in
rural communities. Also critical for success throughout the implementation of the project
was the participatory approach in subproject generation as well as the extensive
involvement of NGOs, the use of micro-enterprises for maintenance and the inclusion of
a pilot for non-motorized transport. In particular, the following lessons were relevant for
the design and implementation of the second phase: (i) despite its potential risk,
beneficiary participation invigorates project sustainability without compromising the
quality and standards of interventions; (ii) the fragile dynamics of local development calls
for close monitoring of the distribution effects of the benefits; (iii) side social benefits,
such as the ones derived from the continuity of the micro-enterprise program, when
clearly demonstrated and appreciated by the parties become powerful engines in the drive
for sustainability; (iv) the improvement of non-motorized transport tracks and trails are
one of the most strategic interventions of the project to alleviate rural poverty, as it
enables the project to reach the most vulnerable.

Risk identification and mitigation measures. Sustainability issues and risks identified
during    project   preparation  were    largely    counterbalanced    by   the  successful
implementation as well as the sensible financial and institutional aspects developed
during the first phase of the road program. Key elements to ensuring the sustainability of
project activities include in particular the micro-enterprises (MEMV) -based road
maintenance mechanism.

Participatory processes: A key lesson from the first project was the relevance and
importance of beneficiaries in the various phases of the project (including subproject
generation, design, implementation and maintenance) in order to achieve the intended



                                              13

objectives of alleviating poverty and building up local institutional capacity for
sustainable maintenance. Various participatory mechanisms designed for the poor to
voice their transport needs were carried out during the implementation of the first project,
and included surveying existing problems and needs, establishing explicit participation in
collaboration or partnership with NGOs, and enabling expression through open markets.
The participatory approaches were continued under the second phase of the project and
further strengthened with the introduction of various measures identified in the context of
the social assessment completed in 2000. The participatory approach envisaged would
aim to: (i) improve the identification of key stakeholders based on beneficiary profiles
and outlining an outreach strategy when relevant; (ii) retool the participatory mechanisms
as necessary to ensure active involvement of the most vulnerable groups; (iii) address
possible issues that may arise from a planned expansion to poor areas in the Selva region;
and (iv) refine the project impact monitoring system to ensure that stakeholders
participate in a systematic and organized manner in ascertaining the project outcomes
through household surveys, focus groups, etc.

2.2      Implementation:

Project implementation has been consistently satisfactory or highly satisfactory at both
central (Provias Descentralizado) and local (regional offices and municipalities) levels.
Neither significant project change nor restructuring of initial project design was
performed. However, fiscal constraints slowed down implementation and required two
extensions of the closing date (for a total of seventeen months) to be processed. Two
amendments to the loan agreement were also needed to accelerate disbursements and
address minor operational issues (see also 2.4).

In 2005, Provias received an award for "best government practice" in the category
"promotion of economic growth". This award was granted by members of the Peruvian
civil society1 who organized a competition aiming at rewarding good performing
governmental initiatives (Buenas Prácticas gubernamentales). Outcomes that were
particularly highlighted in the case of Provias included: (i) sustainability; (ii)
employment generation; (iii) community participation; (iv) complementarity with other
rural development initiatives; and (v) linkage with decentralization. The project also
received an IDB excellence award in 2002. The first Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project had received the World Bank President's Award for Excellence in
2001.

Key factors positively affecting project implementation included:

     (a) Consistency and continuity of Peruvian rural roads policies: Project design built
         on the lessons and achievements of the Peru - Road Rehabilitation of Maintenance
         Project. The Second Rural Roads Project furthered or scaled up many of the


1 The competition is organized every year by a Peruvian NGO (Asociación Ciudadanos al Día). In 2005,
350 initiatives applied, 77 were short-listed and 20 were finally rewarded. Awards were granted in 7
categories: (i) services to citizens; (ii) promotion of economic growth; (iii) simplification of procedures;
(iv) transparency; (v) citizens' participation; (vi) rule of law; and (vii) organization and processes.


                                                        14

       reforms of the previous operation (e.g. NMT, routine maintenance) and
       introduced new concepts or mechanisms (Plan Piloto Selva, provincial road
       institutes, local development window, gender action plan). The first project had
       created a favorable environment from which the second project could benefit. In
       particular, the first project had provided strong evidence that (i) the combination
       of low-cost rehabilitation standards with sustained and efficient routine
       maintenance was a cost-effective solution; (ii) force account activities were not
       needed; and (iii) local governments were able to play an active role in rural roads
       management. With the third operation scheduled to be implemented during the
       period 2007-2012, the Peru Rural Roads Program has demonstrated during more
                              2

       than a decade a remarkable capacity to constantly innovate and streamline
       efficient rural roads policies, building on thorough evaluation of past
       achievements.

   (b) Decentralization reforms: Implementation benefited from the momentum created
       in Peru after 2002 by the decentralization reforms. For the preparation of the
       Annual Transfer Plans (Planes Anuales de Transferencia), the GoP was looking
       for initiatives that were concretizing a process of transfer of responsibilities with
       corresponding budget resources to municipalities. Initiatives aiming at
       strengthening the institutional capacity of sub-national governments were also
       welcomed in order to facilitate the accreditation process that had been put by
       MEF to condition the transfer of new responsibilities to sufficient capacity at the
       municipal level. The Second Rural Roads Project fulfilled these two requirements
       and has been regularly mentioned by the GoP as one of the most successful
       examples of effective and efficient decentralization in Peru. In return, this
       momentum has helped Provias to advance and scale up the "Provincial Road
       Institute" model and to negotiate with MEF the permanent transfer to
       municipalities of specific budget resources to finance routine road maintenance.3

   (c) Learning process and diversity of staff: Openness to innovation has been an
       important factor to successful implementation. Project objectives went well
       beyond the technical aspects of rural roads' management and implementation has
       been characterized by an active involvement of Provias Rural (now Provias
       Descentralizado) in areas as diverse as: institutional reforms linked to the
       decentralization process, municipal finances, rural development, rural institutions,
       community participation, and even gender. In all these areas, implementation
       became a learning process that allowed deepening and furthering the initially-
       envisaged reforms. Thorough monitoring of results and evaluation of outcomes
       was (see also 2.3) retrofitted into implementation and in strategies and contributed
       to the greatest extent to this learning process. Unlike other road agencies, Provias
       could also count on a diverse staff constituted, from not only engineers but also
       economists and social scientists. Such diversity contributed to the strengthening
       of an institutional culture and vision that goes well beyond roads and facilitated
       the establishment of cooperation with other strategic partners.

2Decentralized Rural Transport Project approved by the World Bank Board on December 19, 2006
3Decreto Supremo No. 017-2006-MTC.


                                                 15

                               Table 1: Composition of Provias' staff

Description                                                      Classification               Total
                                                      Professionals      Assistants and
                                                                         technical staff
Executive Direction                                         14                 14               28
Institutional Control                                        7                  3               10
Administration Department                                   28                 10               38
Planning and Budget Department                              12                  4               16
Legal Department                                             7                  3               10
Planning Department                                         45                  1               46
Department of Promotion and Decentralization                15                  5               20
Maintenance Department                                      13                  6               19
Unidades Zonales                                            70                 21               91
Total                                                      211                 67               278
    Source: Provias Descentralizado.

    (d) Strategic alliances: Implementation has been facilitated by the capacity of
         Provias Descentralizado to establish alliances with strategic partners. A very
         important partner has been MEF through which the streamlining of economic
         evaluation procedures for individual road investments4 and the permanent transfer
         to municipalities of specific resources for routine road maintenance was
         particularly achieved. Other key strategic partners include municipalities. Unlike
         other central agencies which have reluctantly supported the transfer of
         responsibilities to decentralized entities because it was perceived as a loss of
         power from the central level, Provias has refocused its strategic role as a
         facilitator of the decentralization process, formalized through specific agreements
         (convenios) signed with municipalities. Provias also partnered with knowledge
         institutions (engineering schools and universities, think tanks like Grade and
         Cuanto) with the objective of improving processes (technical standards),
         monitoring (program of monitores viales) and impact evaluation. Another
         strategic partner has been Caritas Peru which successfully handled the
         implementation of the Local development Window. More recently, Provias has
         signed a Memorandum of Understanding with other institutions involved in rural
         infrastructure, with the objective of promoting complementarities across the
         various sectors and enhancing effectiveness through concerted or combined
         interventions. This partnership will be furthered by the follow-on project which
         includes a "rural infrastructure pilot".

Key factors negatively affecting project implementation included:

         Fiscal constraints: Fiscal impact constraints have delayed implementation,
         requiring two extensions of the closing date to be processed. These constraints


4Given the cost-effective technical solutions (gravel roads) and the sustainability arrangements (routine
maintenance) promoted by the project, MEF agreed that the entire project would qualify globally under the
national public investment system (SNIP) and that individual assessment would not be necessary.


                                                   16

        related to the management within the Ministry of Transport and Communications
        (MTC) of either the indebtedness ceiling (as in 2003 and 2004) or the counterpart
        funds (in 2005) granted by MEF. As a consequence, a disbursement gap appeared
        at the end of 2003 and widened in 2004 and 2005. During the same period,
        Provias had a pipeline of investment and sufficient processing capacity to absorb
        much higher levels of resources. Disbursement finally caught up in 2006 as a
        result of a number of corrective actions agreed between Provias, MEF, the IDB
        and the Bank. These include: (i) the preparation by MEF of a multi-annual
        disbursement schedule for 2005-2009 (including the 2nd Rural Roads Project as
        well as the follow-on operation); (2) the processing of an amendment to the Loan
        Agreement increasing the Bank disbursement ratio for works from 50 to 70
        percent; (3) the release by MEF of additional counterpart funds in the last year
                   5

        of implementation; and (4) intensified activities by Provias in 2006 order to
        absorb the additional resources.

Key factors having a mixed effect on project implementation included:

        Political transition: The project was prepared during the transition between the
        Fujimori, Paniagua and Toledo administrations. Activities were mostly
        implemented under the Toledo administration, with the exception of the last 6
        months under the Garcia administration. The project strongly benefited from the
        priority given to decentralization under the Toledo administration. Perspectives
        under the Garcia administration remain positive, given the focus on infrastructure,
        regional development, decentralization and rural growth (as illustrated for
        example by the Sierra Exportadora program). However, the austerity measures
        imposed by the new administration caused the cancellation of an international
        seminar on rural transport that was scheduled to be held in Lima in October 2006.
        This cancellation was an unfortunate loss of opportunities to disseminate results
        and share experiences with other countries from LAC and other regions.                   6  In
        August 2006, five months before completion, the new Peruvian Minister of
        Transport decided to merge Provias Rural and Provias Departamental into
        Provias Descentralizado. The transition is still in process and is made
        complicated by the necessary restructuring and contraction of staff (phasing out of
        Provias Departamental's force account activities in particular). However, the
        merging is expected to bring significant benefits in the medium term, with in
        particular greater synergies between the decentralization processes at regional and
        local levels.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The PDO and the three specific project objectives have been monitored through a
framework of indicators specifically designed for that purpose. All key performance


5The IaDB agreed to reduce their disbursement ratio from 50 to 30 percent, provided they would finance
100 percent of expenditures (without taxes) during the period between the Bank's closing date and their
own closing date scheduled 6 months later.
6Representatives from China and Georgia had expressed strong interest in attending the seminar.


                                                  17

indicators are comprehensive and closely linked to these four main project objectives.
The impact evaluation study which had been conducted at the end of the first phase of the
project helped the team to: (a) design realistic project objectives by estimating the main
expected effects of this type of project; (b) set realistic target values for the indicators by
assessing the impacts of phase I. The PAD also includes a number of comprehensive
output indicators linked to each component of the project. The design of these indicators
and their respective target values has also been facilitated by the impact evaluation study
of phase I.

Data collection has been conducted as initially forecasted in the PAD. A mix of
monitoring instruments has been used in parallel with regular impact evaluation studies to
assess the effects of the project and the values of the different key performance indicators
and output and impact/outcome indicators at every stage of the project. For outputs, the
following tools have been used: Provias' project information system and Provias'
monitoring database; MTC's road inventory; annual, biannual and quarterly progress
reports; registry of micro-enterprises, contractors and consultants; activity reports issued
by coordinator of LDW. Data collection has also been facilitated by the implementation
of the Integrated System for Technical and Administrative Management (SIGAT in
Spanish), which has been co-financed by the project and which was not initially forecast
in the PAD. This system integrates all the various computerized information systems
used by Provias Descentralizado to manage logistics, staffing, accounting, finances,
disbursement, budget, assets management control and contracts. The SIGAT is connected
to the information systems used by other Peruvian institutions such as MEF (SIAF) or
SUNAT (PDT and COA). Information is sorted by financing institution and is now
accessible to Provias' regional offices (unidades zonales). This system will be improved
during phase III.

In addition to these monitoring instruments, impacts have been assessed by three impact
evaluation studies: one conducted at mid-term, one at the end of the project and one first
study conducted ex-post at the end of phase I in 2001. The main results of this last study
were that the project had a noticeable impact on transport conditions and access to social
services, but a limited one on unemployment and poverty alleviation. This study also
served as a baseline for the mid-term study of phase II (2004). For this second impact
evaluation, a more elaborate and accurate methodology had been used: the double
difference technique. This second study also served as a baseline for the end-of-the-
project impact evaluation (which has the same methodology), whose results are detailed
in Annex 5. Two impact evaluation studies will be conducted during the follow-on
project (phase III), one at mid-term and one at the end of the project, using a priori the
same methodology and ensuring the sustainability of M&E arrangements.

This M&E framework not only permitted the Bank to regularly track the project
implementation progress, but also provided the GoP with an instrument to assess the
implementing agency's performance and gave Provias Rural a tool that helped for
planning and programming activities. In addition, the various monitoring instruments, as
well as the results of the first two impact evaluation studies, facilitated the design of the
project (in particular the assessment of indicators and their target values) and illustrated



                                             18

the good performance of the project. It also demonstrated that rural transport projects
have an impact on poverty that differs between rural roads and NMT tracks, while their
effects on transport conditions and access to markets and social services is more direct.
Finally, the M&E framework constituted an active learning process for Provias, given
that the implementing agency collected a lot of information on the project and its effects
from the various monitoring tools and impact evaluation studies.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement. The management of procurement processes by Provias Descentralizado
has been satisfactory overall. Three ex-post procurement reviews were performed in
September 2003, March 2005 and May 2006. Reviews formulated recommendations that
helped improve the management of procurement processes, including: (i) archiving of
procurement documents; (ii) information included in the procurement plan; (iii) training
of procurement staff; (iv) reception of bids; (v) consultancies to be performed by
individual consultants or firms; and (vi) harmonization of procurement methods
described in the Operational Manual and in the Legal Agreement. In response to the
conclusions from the ex-post reviews, a number of corrective actions were taken,
including: (i) the contracting in 2005 of a consultant specialized in archives;           7 (ii) the
organization of a training of Provias' staff in Bank procurement guidelines; (iii) the
revision of bidding documents with a view to increase competition by limiting the
number of firms disqualified at the time of bid opening; and (iv) the processing of an
amendment to the Legal Agreement (with retroactive application) so as to harmonize
methods described in the Operational Manual and the Loan Agreement. Finally, it is
worth mentioning that specific harmonized procurement documents had been agreed with
the World Bank and the IaDB for the purpose of the Second Rural Roads Project at a
time when the two banks had different procurement policies.8

Financial Management and Disbursement. The management of financial management
and disbursement processes has been satisfactory. External auditors (Rodolfo Retamozo y
Asociados) were designated in November 2001 by the Contraloría General de la
Republica. They were renewed for the following years except in 2003 when the firm
Iwashita Nue y Asociados was selected. Audited financial statements were sent to the
Bank and filed for each year of implementation. Audit reports were generally sent to the
Bank on time (except for year 2003 when a 6 month delay was observed). Audit reports
were reviewed by the Bank's FM team who concluded that: (i) reports had been prepared
in accordance with Bank guidelines; (ii) auditors issued unqualified opinions on the
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, on the Statement of Cumulative Investments, on
the Statement of Expenditures, and on Special Account Statement; (iii) in general, the
auditors found that the Second Rural Roads Project complied with the terms of the
agreement and the applicable laws and regulations; and (iv) internal controls had been
evaluated as satisfactory. However, clarifications were required by the Bank FM team in
2005 with regard to the insufficient availability of counterpart funds and its impact on
disbursement levels. To address this issue and accelerate disbursements, an amendment

7Terms of Reference approved by the Bank on September 12, 2005. Contract extended in May 2006.
8Since 2004, the World Bank and the IaDB have adopted harmonized procurement documents.


                                                19

to the Legal Agreement was processed to increase the Bank's disbursement ratio for
works from 50 to 70 percent (see also 2.2).

Environmental Assessment. Compliance with Bank environmental safeguards has been
satisfactory. The project had been rated as "Category B", since no major environmental
issue had been anticipated from project works. Environmental procedures followed those
agreed during project preparation, as specified in the Operational Manual. Specific
procedures were applied in the case of the Plan Piloto Selva, since these activities were
performed in a very sensitive area from both a social (indigenous peoples) and
environmental perspective (see Annex 2).

Indigenous Peoples. Compliance with Bank social safeguards has been satisfactory. OD
4.20 Indigenous Peoples Policy was triggered and Indigenous Peoples Plans were
prepared in consultation with the native communities of the Amazon basin for the
preparation and the implementation of the Plan Piloto Selva (PPS). For the Sierra region,
the project implemented a strong participatory approach, including the creation of road
maintenance micro enterprises that included and benefited Indigenous and non
Indigenous farmers. In both areas an extensive consultation process was carried out to
ensure feedback from communities. The preparation of the safeguard aspects for the PPS
can be considered as best practice. The process included the preparation of a Socio-
Environmental Study (ESS) and Action Plans by a consortia compounded by an
environmental and a social firm. The ESS included a socio-economic assessment as well
as a physical and biological evaluation, while the Action Plans included Indigenous
Peoples Plans, an environmental protection plan and a monitoring and evaluation plan.
The studies included an intense participatory approach with the local communities,
Indigenous and settlers, as well as the involved municipalities and the regional and local
authorities.

Cultural Property. Although Cultural Property Bank safeguards had not been activated at
the time of appraisal, three cases of works with potential impact on sites of
archaeological significance were reported during implementation by Provias
Descentralizado. The Bank provided Provias with applicable safeguards' policies. These
cases were dealt with, according to the Peruvian national legislation on cultural property
which is consistent with the Bank safeguards' policy on Physical Cultural Property. The
cases were as follows:

(a) In Amazonas, Tingo - Kuelap and Leymebamba - Laguna los Cóndores: the first one
    is under implementation and the second one awaits bidding. Both include studies
    regarding archaeological monitoring, and the first one has obtained the CIRA
    (Certificate of Inexistence of Archaeological Remains) provided by the Peruvian
    Cultural Authority (INC). The CIRA for the Leymebamba segment is pending.

(b) In Ancash, Acovichay - Paria - Yanacancha - Llupa - Nueva Florida: this track
    already includes the archaeological monitoring study while its implementation is
    pending.

(c) In Cusco, the rural road to Choquequirao, includes the archaeological monitoring
    study and has obtained the CIRA from INC, the work has been completed.



                                            20

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase:

A key objective of the arrangements envisaged in the post-completion phase of the
project was to strengthen the institutional and financial sustainability of rural road
maintenance and to ultimately enable a gradual transfer of responsibilities to the local
environment. This objective was achieved with specific measures being taken by the GoP
in the broader context of the decentralization agenda, and in the context of the following
specific reforms: (i) the Supreme Decree No. 017-2006-MTC making permanent the
transfer of specific resources to municipalities to finance routine road maintenance; and
(ii) the creation of specific decentralized institutions (Provincial Road Institutes) in
charge of managing the rural roads network.

Transition arrangements during post-completion phase. Due to the special nature of the
statutes of the rural road program, its duration was in principle limited to the execution of
the proposed project. The Government, jointly with IDB and the Bank, reviewed the need
to continue with the road program after completion of the project, taking account of the
progress made in the decentralization agenda. MEF and MTC agreed that the role of the
program would in the long run shift from execution to monitoring and provision of
technical, institutional and financial assistance for programs carried out by a diverse
number of executing agencies, including regional entities and municipalities.

In addition, in order to scale up in a timely manner the positive results of Second Rural
Roads project, the decentralized rural transport project was prepared in 2005-2006 and is
scheduled to become effective in the first semester of 2007.

Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. On the institutional side, the project
exposed local governments to organizational shortcuts based on contracting out most of
the works and services to local consultants, small contractors and community-based
organizations using work methods tailored to their capacity. Early involvement of
beneficiaries and the reliance on solutions well-adapted to the working environment of
municipalities increased capacity and built pressure on local governments for continuous
road maintenance. Sustainability of the project was also ensured through continuous
dialogue with the Government of Peru regarding the mobilization of local resources and
revenue-sharing mechanisms for road maintenance, thereby reinforcing the Government's
decentralization agenda. On the financial side, long-term project sustainability was linked
to the establishment of a financial mechanism for the municipalities to undertake road
maintenance activities. In order to increase and sustain road maintenance resources, the
following actions were taken: (i) investment resources were shifted to current
expenditures like maintenance; (ii) revenue generation was improved; and (iii)
intergovernmental transfers aimed to increase road maintenance resources were increased
to ensure a sustainable source of funds for road maintenance and management. In 2006,
the intergovernmental transfer was made permanent through the publication of the
Supreme Decree No. 017-2006-MTC.

Follow-up operation: The decentralized rural transport project will constitute a follow-up
to the second phase of the rural road program by scaling up to the entire country the


                                              21

decentralized rural roads policies that have been successfully developed during the first
two rural road projects. The project will also provide a comprehensive institutional
strengthening package at the local and central levels, in the broader context of
decentralization reforms. It is expected to coordinate closely with the Bank-funded Peru
Rural Electrification project and the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation project,
particularly regarding the design and implementation of the rural infrastructure pilot and
to coordinate with the other Bank-funding projects and initiatives in the area of
decentralization (particularly the Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal
Decentralization Technical Assistance Loan). Finally, coordination would also be
ensured with the Sierra Rural Development Project (under preparation).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation:

The Second Rural Roads project was well-aligned with the priorities of the GoP and with
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Both development agendas stressed the
importance of promoting a more inclusive growth, through greater infrastructure
investments in rural Peru (particularly in the Sierra) and through decentralization as a
means to empower local stakeholders and improve the management of public
expenditures.

The project addressed these issues through an ambitious program focused in the rural
areas of the poorest departments, combining a set of transport-related policies with a
social development agenda that became particularly relevant in the context of the
decentralization reforms initiated by the GoP after 2002. In particular, the participatory
planning instruments, but also the institutional model of the Provincial Road Institute and
the cooperation arrangements it implied between provincial and district municipalities,
made a significant contribution to the Peruvian decentralization process.

The original design of the Second Rural Roads project could also build on the
achievements of the former Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project and on
the results of the 2000 impact evaluation. This evaluation led in particular to the concept
of the "Local Development Window" to enhance complementarities between transport
and entrepreneurial initiatives and accelerate the effect on reducing rural poverty.

Finally, quality at entry was enhanced by the multiple consultations and participatory
processes involving local stakeholders and vulnerable rural populations (e.g. women).
These consultations illustrated the relevance of Non-Motorized Transport (NMT)
infrastructure to target the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the rural population.
The gender action plan was also prepared in this context to enhance benefits for poor
rural women, through greater empowerment and direct participation in some project
components (Local Development Window, micro-enterprises for road maintenance).

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives:




                                             22

The project aimed at improving the access of the rural poor to basic services, market
integrating infrastructure and income-generating activities with gender equity, to help
alleviate rural poverty and raise the living standards of rural communities.

The three impact evaluations that were performed illustrated the effects that improved
rural roads help rural population access basic services, particularly education: according
to the 2006 evaluation, school enrollment for boys aged 12-18 increased between 2004
and 2006 from 84 to 94 percent (7 percentage points, accounting for the counterfactual),
while primary school enrollment for girls increased from 93 to 99 percent (5 percentage
points, accounting for the counterfactual). However, no impact on access to education
services was observed in the case of NMT tracks. The evaluation also showed several
positive effects on employment and income generating activities: per capita monthly
income was found to increase by 25.6 percent over the period 2004-2006 in the areas
benefiting from NMT tracks. This income effect is likely to be linked to the improved
productivity of the agriculture sector in NMT areas, itself caused by the increased
availability of informal labor force (unpaid family workers). The cultivated area was also
found to have increased by 22 percent in the areas benefiting from improved rural roads,
although this did not seem to translate in greater household income.

On the other hand, the ultimate effect of project interventions on poverty is mixed:
Between 2004 and 2006, poverty decreased from 83.1 to 74.4 percent in areas benefiting
from improved NMT tracks, most likely as a result of increased agricultural productivity
and improved access to local markets. This illustrates how simple solutions to bring or
improve access can help relieve bottlenecks to poverty alleviation in the most remote
rural areas of Peru. However, this poverty effect is not significant in the case of rural
roads rehabilitation, suggesting that improved rural transport alone is not sufficient to
tackle rural poverty in these less remote places. Rural road improvements are still an
important element of rural poverty alleviation strategies provided they are combined with
other types of infrastructure, in order to enhance impact. This conclusion reinforces the
relevance of initiatives such as the Local Development Window or the Rural
Infrastructure Pilot scheduled in the follow-on operation (Decentralized Rural Transport
Project).

Finally, PDO achievement is reinforced by the greater project outputs (4,039 km of roads
rehabilitated and maintained, compared to an initial objective of 3,225 km), as well as by
the successful results of the other project components in ensuring technical sustainability
(road maintenance), institutional sustainability (provincial road institutes) and
complementarities with entrepreneurial initiatives (local development window).

3.3     Efficiency:

Several economic evaluations of the project's road improvement activities were
performed before and after the implementation phase. While the ex-ante economic
evaluation analyzed a sample of 36 sub-projects completed under the first phase of the
program using the producer's surplus approach, the ex-post economic evaluation: (i)
reviewed the CBA and the Cost Effectiveness Analysis (CEA) presented on a sample of



                                              23

423 feasibility studies prepared during the project implementation, and (ii) performed
representative ex-post CBA and CEA evaluations considering actual road works costs
and results of the latest impact evaluation study prepared during the implementation of
the project.

Economic evaluation framework. An economic evaluation framework for all road
investments made by the project was defined at appraisal. This framework considers the
stage of development of the sub-project area of influence: (i) sub-projects in a first stage
of development, in areas with a high percentage of poverty, serving a social function and
typically with very low traffic (less than 15 AADT) or only non-motorized traffic
(tracks), are analyzed on the basis of social considerations (cost effectiveness approach);
(ii) sub-projects in intermediate stage of development, typically with traffic between 15
and 30 AADT and serving agricultural and livestock production, are evaluated using the
producer's surplus approach; and (iii) sub-projects at a more advanced stage of
development, typically with high long distance traffic (higher than 30 AADT) and
serving an economic function, are evaluated based on benefits to road user costs
compared to the rehabilitation and maintenance costs following the application of the
Roads Economic Decision Model (RED).

Ex-ante economic evaluation. The ex-ante economic evaluation of the rehabilitation of
rural roads was done evaluating, with the producer's surplus approach, 36 sample sub-
projects completed under the first phase of the program, totaling 1,563 km and US$ 20.34
million of investment costs (representing 20% of the investments and the number of
kilometers rehabilitated of this component). The results of the ex-ante analysis yields an
economic rate of return (ERR) of 25% and a net present value (NPV) of US$ 20.27
million at 10% discount rate, which is equivalent to US$ 12.75 million at 14% discount
rate, which is the prevailing discount rate in Peru during the project implementation
period.

Economic evaluation in feasibility reports. During project implementation, feasibility
studies were performed at the sub-project level for each identified road investment in
order to quantify the rehabilitation needs of the project road and evaluate its economic or
social justification. Non-motorized tracks and rural roads with traffic less than 15 AADT
were subject to CEA and rural roads with more than 15 AADT were subject to CBA
using the producer's surplus approach. A sample of 124 rural roads feasibility studies was
reviewed totaling 2,128 km (42% of the total program of 5,018 km), of which 47
feasibility studies (984 km) included CBA and 77 feasibility studies (1,144 km) included
CEA.

For the 47 roads subject to a CBA, the total NPV is US$ 6.75 million, at 14% discount
rate and the ERR is 23.6%. These CBA evaluations were done adopting the producer's
surplus approach by comparing the project costs and economic benefits derived from
increase in agricultural and livestock net production value as a result of productivity
increase linked to the road improvement. A detailed review of 12 feasibility studies
shows that in year 3 on average the total agricultural and livestock production benefits
(profits), net of production costs, are 15% higher with the project compared with the



                                            24

without project scenario, which is broadly in line with the ex-ante economic evaluation
assumptions.

For the 77 rural roads subject to a CEA: (i) the average rehabilitation cost is US$ 14,439
per km; (ii) the total rehabilitation cost is US$ 17.62 million; (iii) the average cost per
beneficiary indicator is US$ 46 per person; and (iv) the average total population served is
594 persons per km, of which 390 persons are direct beneficiaries. The CEA cost per
beneficiary indicator was computed dividing the present value of the road agency costs
over a 10 year evaluation period by the total population served (direct plus indirect
beneficiaries). Moreover, a sample of 299 non-motorized tracks improvements feasibility
studies were reviewed totaling 2,636 km (73% of the total program of 3,607 km), on
which CEA was performed. For these tracks: (i) the average improvement costs is US$
2,500 per km; (ii) the total improvement cost is US$ 6.6 million; (iii) the average cost per
beneficiary indicator is US$ 27 per person; and (iv) the average total population served is
295 persons per km of which all are direct beneficiaries.

Ex-post economic evaluation. The ex-post economic evaluation was done considering
actual road works unit costs and results of the latest impact evaluation study prepared
during the implementation of the project. First, a producer's surplus model was
developed to replicate the results of the ex-ante economic evaluation, and then the actual
road work costs and the updated assumptions of the project benefits were entered into the
model to produce the ex-post evaluation results. The producer's surplus model was
developed taking into account information collected from the feasibility studies related to
representative agricultural and livestock characteristics in the area of influence of the
project roads.

Estimated, contract and actual costs. In order to determine the actual rehabilitation costs
of rural roads unit and to compare them with the feasibility estimates and the contract
costs, different samples were reviewed: (i) 35 rural roads projects subject to CBA and (ii)
58 feasibility studies subject to CEA. For the first sample, contract costs are 23% lower
than estimated costs and actual costs are about the same as contract costs; while for the
second one, contract costs are 36% higher than estimated costs and actual costs are about
the same as contract costs. Regarding NMTs, 277 projects were reviewed, showing that
contract costs are 5% higher than estimated costs and actual costs are 38% lower than
contract costs. Similarly, the review of 231 periodic maintenance contracts shows that
actual costs are 4% higher than contract costs. Ultimately, a review of 2,180 routine
maintenance contracts demonstrates that actual costs are 29% higher than contract costs,
mainly reflecting the expansion of contracts' duration.

Ex-post evaluation assumptions. The ex-post economic evaluation considered the results
of the 2006 impact evaluation study that evaluated the impact on roads rehabilitated or
improved between 2004 and 2006. The ex-post economic evaluation has been readjusted
to take into account the positive impacts showed by this study on the network condition,
the total motorized traffic on rural roads, the agricultural area and the number of
livestock. Based on these figures, this evaluation was done considering the following
assumptions:



                                             25

    -   no adjustments were made in the number of livestock;
    -   an increase of 22% (to take place in year 2) in the overall agricultural area for key
        agricultural products in the area of influence of the sub-projects;
    -   no adjustments were made to the costs of production for either agricultural or
        livestock-related products;
    -   no adjustments were made to the agricultural yields or to farm prices;
    -   average rehabilitation cost of US$ 12,813 per km;
    -   average routine maintenance cost of US$ 647 per km per year;
    -   program network length of 5,018 km for a total investment of US$ 64.29 million;
    -   a discount rate of 14% that was the prevailing discount rate in Peru during project
        implementation.

A high efficiency project. The results of the ex-post analysis yield an economic rate of
return (ERR) of 31% and a net present value (NPV) of US$ 64.05 million, at 14%
discount rate. Two sensitivity cases were also performed. All of them lead to the same
conclusions and demonstrate that the rehabilitation of rural roads component was well
justified considering the actual investment costs and the updated assumptions on the
producer's benefits. The ex-post net benefits are higher than the benefits evaluated at
appraisal due to the lower actual road works costs and the higher than expected impact of
the project on the area of agricultural production. Table 2 summarizes the economic
evaluation results.

                            Table 2: Economic Evaluation Results

                                                  Ex-ante     Feasibility Studies  Ex-post
 Length (km)                                      1,563              984           5,018
 Investment (M US$)                               20.34            16.39           64.29
 Investment / km (US$/km)                         13,017           16,657          12,813
 ERR (%)                                           25%              24%             31%
 NPV at 14% Discount Rate (M US$)                 12.75             6.75           64.05
 NPV at 14% Discount Rate / Investment             0.63             0.41            1.00

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating:

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The project was rated highly satisfactorily for the following reasons:

    · Higher-than-expected project outputs (km of roads and NMT tracks rehabilitated
        due to excellent implementing capacity of Provias Descentralizado and lower
        rehabilitation costs. Implementation delays (17 months extension) were caused by
        GoP's fiscal space policies and not by project performance.

    · Project's high economic efficiency (see above).
    · Results from final impact evaluation surveys illustrated project benefits in terms
        of improved transport conditions, increased access to social services (for rural
        roads), and increased income for rural households (for NMT tracks). While
        ultimate impact on rural poverty is less measurable than initially anticipated
        (except for NMT tracks), important lessons were drawn in terms of how improved


                                              26

       rural transport modifies the living conditions of the rural poor. These conclusions
       (need for greater complementarities with other types of interventions like rural
       infrastructure) were integrated in the design of the follow-on operation
       (Decentralized Rural Transport project).

    · Institutional arrangements to ensure project sustainability, and in particular the
       micro-enterprises for road maintenance (MEMV) and the Provincial Road
       Institutes (PRI).

    · Contribution to the decentralization process through: (i) enhancing the planning
       capacity at the local level while empowering rural stakeholders; (ii) improving
       municipalities' management capacity (with the PRIs); and (iii) fostering greater
       municipal cooperation at the provincial level, thus overcoming the fragmentation
       of Peru's municipal sector.

    · The Project inspired other reforms initiated in the transport sector in Peru. In
       particular, the MEMV road maintenance model was experimented by Provias
       Rural on 2,706 km of connecting secondary roads which were then transferred to
       regional governments. The model was then streamlined through another Bank-
       supported operation (Regional Transport Decentralization project). The micro-
       enterprises model is also currently being adapted to the national network within a
       program financed by the IaDB.

    · Positive spillover effects from other project components: employment generation
       from MEMV, results of gender action plan, effect of LDW and MEMV on
       enhancing entrepreneurial capacity in rural areas, lessons drawn from Plan Piloto
       Selva.

    · Learning process initiated through the Project's sound M&E framework that was
       retrofitted in the design of follow-on operation.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts:

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty: The project had two poverty-related initial objectives: (1) Overall reduction of
poverty and extreme poverty by 1.0 and 2.0 percentage points, respectively; and (2)
overall reduction of the poverty gap by 1.5 and 2.2 percentage points in areas served by
the rehabilitated rural roads and non-motorized tracks respectively. This was not an over-
ambitious objective, considering that many poverty-focused programs in Peru display
poverty reduction targets of 5 percent or more in targeted areas.

According to the final impact evaluation survey, between 2004 and 2006, poverty
decreased by 8.7 percentage points in areas benefiting from NMT tracks (statistically
significant at 10 percent). This decrease seemed equally distributed between non-extreme
and extreme poor. However, the statistical significance of this last observation is low.

These results suggest that the actual effect of the project on rural poverty was different
than initially expected: NMT tracks interventions are likely to have had a greater-than-


                                            27

anticipated effect. On the other hand, rural roads' investments were not found to have a
significant impact, at least over project lifetime. This does not diminish the relevance of
rural roads programs as an important element of development strategies for rural areas
but it suggests that they must be combined with other types of interventions (e.g. in rural
infrastructure or through the local development window) in order to enhance impact.

A "threshold-based" interpretation, further discussed in Annex 5, is that simple
interventions like NMT tracks can represent a major improvement for the most rural
communities (by making a difference between having no access at all and having basic
access) and be sufficient to help relieve key bottlenecks to some income-generating
activities. On the other hand, rural roads improvement alone may generally not be
sufficient to alleviate rural poverty (although they can make an important contribution to
facilitate access to social services and to diversify the productive base). Finally, no
conclusions could be drawn about whether the greatest project impact was on extreme or,
rather, non-extreme poverty.

Gender: A detailed gender assessment is presented in Annex 6. Project objectives were in
line with the current World Bank gender action plan. Achievements illustrate how
intensifying gender mainstreaming in this particular rural transport operation has resulted
in improving women's access to product and labor markets. The project also ascertained
how the transport sector can contribute to the achievement of the MDG39, by developing
women's empowerment and promoting gender equity. The project epitomized with
successful gender-oriented actions that women are a driving force in poverty reduction
(as illustrated by the key role they played in the LDW activities) and that eluding gender
concerns in transport policies and projects might constitute a missed opportunity to
involve women as potential contributors to economic growth.

Access- The 2005 poverty assessment for Peru argued that social mobility and
opportunities depended on improved access. The project made two important
contributions in improving access for rural women:

    · Providing physical access - Small rural infrastructure interventions have impacted
        the multi-task burden of rural women by smoothing the opportunity cost of their
        time and increasing their mobility choices. Seventy-seven percent of surveyed
        women confirmed they traveled more and further and 67 percent felt they traveled
        more safely The rehabilitation of the NMT tracks, mostly used by women,
        specifically addressed women's transport needs in rural areas: (i) women's
        allocation of time is now more efficient as they are freed from wasting their daily
        time in long trips; (ii) the cleaner and safer tracks encourage them to travel as new
        opportunities of mobility arise, like selling agricultural products further as well as
        giving birth in health centers and hospitals and obtaining the birth certificate for
        further name registration10 avoiding insalubrious conditions; (iii) women's
        attendance and participation in community meetings or assemblies is more

9Millennium Development Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women
10Undocumented people continue being a problem in Peru. About 25 % of the population is undocumented,
because limited access to name registration, institutional birth delivery, among other reasons.
Undocumented people are rural, indigenous, illiterate and women.


                                                    28

         frequent, allowing women's voices to be better heard in decision-making for
         community development.

    · Fostering access to resources. The Project has contributed to overcoming
         women's constrained access to economic resources and to income-generating
         activities, and has removed obstacles to wage employment opportunities. Forty-
         three percent of women reported the Project enabled them to obtain additional
         income. Part of this additional income came from road maintenance and from
         LDW activities. This effect was higher-than-expected and the participation of
         women in micro-enterprises and LDW activities exceeded initial targets (i) for
         MEMV, the participation of women reached 24 percent, compared to an initial
         target of 10 percent, (ii) for LDW projects, women's participation reached 40
         percent (compared to an initial target of 30 percent).

Women empowerment: The LDW implemented a specific mechanism (Rapid Rural
Poll11) to help ensure the inclusiveness of participatory processes, particularly with regard
to the gender perspective. The LDW design also took into account women's needs, which
resulted in the strong participation of women in the identification and implementation of
entrepreneurial activities, as well as in rural roads committees and cooperatives. In the
case of the rural roads committees, women participated actively in the identification of
NMT tracks to be improved. In the case of the MEMV, many women managed payment
certificates and treasury accounts.

Lifting barriers. Rural communities' idiosyncrasy, women's shame, modesty and lack of
confidence, ignorance of women's opinions, gender unawareness, "machismo" behavior,
were, among other, initial barriers to the mainstreaming of gender in this project.
However, the Project has prompted a social change where local communities and
husbands are pleased with their working-women, and where working-women feel proud
of their job and become empowered to transmit their feelings, beliefs and ideas in public
spheres. Finally, Provias, unlike many traditionally manly transport agencies, became a
gender-sensitive institution.

Gender Champions- Gender know-how and expertise was developed by both the
appointed gender focal point in the agency headquarters and the consultant hired to
design and monitor the Project's gender agenda. Committed managers, staff and
beneficiaries also helped mainstream the gender perspective in Provias' operations.

(b)      Institutional Change/Strengthening:

The Project fostered institutional changes at various levels:

At the national level: through the progressive evolution of Provias Descentralizado from
an executing agency to a regulating agency in charge of promoting sound rural roads
policies, helping local governments implement these policies and monitoring outcomes
and impacts.


11Rapid Rural Poll specifically defines the population sample as representative of the community as
possible. Therefore, women are an ineludible part of the consulted sample.


                                                    29

At the municipal level: through introducing innovative institutional and planning
arrangements (Provincial Road Boards, Provincial Roads Institutes, Participatory
Provincial Road Plans), capable of promoting greater cooperation among municipalities
around common rural transport policies and of building sufficient institutional capacity in
order to ensure the implementation of sound and sustainable decentralized rural transport
policies, in the broader context of Peru's decentralization reforms.

At the community level: through the design and implementation of inclusive participatory
mechanisms (talleres de priorización, local development window) and institutions (rural
roads committees, MEMV), that empowered rural stakeholders and better aligned rural
transport interventions to their actual needs.

Regarding participatory processes, a shift was observed during project implementation.
During the first phase, the emphasis was on a more direct participation, with the
involvement of the possible beneficiaries (population) themselves. As the project
progressed, along with the deepening of the decentralization agenda in Peru, and the
creation of decentralized units (PRIs) and responsibilities, the participation shifted
upwards to the legitimate representative bodies, which started to take over the
participatory processes (in brief, an increase in the institutionalization of the rural roads
sector led to a decrease in the formal participatory processes). At particular junctures, the
"older" participatory approaches were used again (perhaps as a way to validate the
"legitimate" decisions done by the relevant governmental entities) in the form of "mesas"
and other initiatives (e.g., workshops undertaken by Provias in the visits to communities).
There were also other indirect mechanisms, chiefly through the groups of young
engineers ("road monitors") in charge of the supervision of the micro-enterprises. These
groups constituted an informal channel for transmitting communities' opinions on the
program.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

At completion, a study was launched to evaluate in more detail the impact of the Project
on rural institutions, participatory processes and democracy. A summary of this study is
presented in Annex 6.

Key results include:

   · Greater participation in elections: provinces where the project has been active
        experienced an increase in voter participation, particularly for women.

   · Greater accountability of public officials: the proportion of public officials
        revoked ("revocatoria") was greater in the project areas. Revocatorias should not
        be interpreted as an indication that the project promoted local conflicts but, rather,
        as a sign of greater participation through which local stakeholders could voice
        their concerns and as an additional incentive for greater accountability.

   · Emergence of new leaders: In the 6 departments surveyed in the study, 82 cases
        of micro-entrepreneurs becoming local leaders were reported. In one case, the


                                              30

        manager of a PRI became president of a regional government. This illustrates how
        the project contributed to the emergence of new leaders and how management
        experience gained through the implementation of some project components, was
        transferred to other areas of public management.

    · Recognition of micro-entrepreneurs: Despite some envy because of their salaried
        work position, micro-entrepreneurs are valued by rural communities for their
        organization model and their entrepreneurial spirit. MEMVs were found to play
        an important role for the communities, in particular in cases of emergencies or to
        perform some voluntary civil works. Some MEMVs implemented a rotation
        system to give employment opportunities to abandoned women or poor families,
        thus acting as a safety net without compromising the efficiency of the road works.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and Stakeholder Workshops:

Three impact evaluations were performed in 2000, 2004 and 2006. These evaluations
were performed by two experienced Peruvian think tanks (Instituto Cuanto and Grade),
using household surveys and a "double-difference" comparison between rural
populations living nearby rehabilitated roads and non-rehabilitated roads (control group).
Key finding are summarized in table 3. A more detailed description is presented in Annex
5.

Results confirmed the significant benefits in terms of transport conditions (reduced travel
times, reliability of transport services) and use of transport services (increased traffic).
Impact on transport fares varies between light vehicles (cars) for which a sharp decrease
was observed and heavier vehicles (e.g. trucks) for which possible oligopolistic behaviors
impeded a reduction. However, impact on cost is only significant for the 2000 generation
of roads, suggesting this is a longer-term effect.

Better transport helped improved access to social services. For rural roads, school
enrollment was found to have increased significantly. This effect is greater for girls
accessing primary education (possibly because of the more secure transport conditions)
while, for boys, the highest effect is found for secondary education (possibly further
away and therefore linked to the reliability of motorized transport). For NMT tracks, a
significant effect was on the health conditions of young children (age 0-5), most likely
because of the facilitated access for mothers to health centers.

Improved transport also impacted the pattern of productive activities and employment in
the rural economy. Better rural roads led to an increase in farmed land area and in
irrigated land value. However, the income produced per farmed area decreased, possibly
as a consequence of over-production of locally-consumed products. Rural roads also
helped populations access more formal job opportunities and facilitated access to credit.
On the other hand, NMT tracks had an important effect on agricultural productivity. This
is principally due to the participation of unpaid family workers to income-generating
opportunities, possibly as a consequence of additional time freed by eased transport. This
increased productivity, possibly combined with improved access to markets led to
additional income for poor rural households benefiting from improved NMT tracks.



                                             31

          As discussed before, the ultimate effect on poverty is mixed and is principally observed
          for NMT tracks. A proposed interpretation is that this type of basic infrastructure can
          represent a dramatic improvement for the most remote rural communities (from having
          almost no access at all to having basic access) while rural roads alone may not be
          sufficient to make a measurable difference in terms of poverty reduction, for the less
          remote rural communities. However, this impact might be enhanced if transport was
          combined with other types of interventions (e.g. rural infrastructure or rural
          entrepreneurship programs).

                     Table 3: summary of key results from the three impact evaluations

   Sector                    Indicator              2000 and 2004                        2006 evaluation
                                                      evaluations            Rural Roads                NMT Tracks
                                                   Term *    Effect**  Effect**     Stat.Sign***   Effect**  Stat.Sign***
Transportation   Reduced Travel time                 S          H          H              -           H            o
                 Increased Traffic rate              S          H          H              o
                 Decreased Fare prices             S-M         M/H     H (cars)          **
                 Decreased Freight prices          S-M          H     Increased?         **
                                                                      (exc. cars)
                 Decreased Road closure              S          M          L              -           H            -
                 Increased Reliability transport   S-M         M/H    H (micro)           *
Access to public Increased School Registration     M-L          L      H (boys           ***       H (girls       ***
   services                                                           secondary)                   primary)
                 Increased Health consultations    S-M          M          M              -           H            *
                 Increased Judicial causes         S-M          N
                 Increased police interventions    S-M       H (2004)
 Productive      Increased Farmed land area         M           L          H              *        Reduced         o
  activities                                                                                           ?
                 Increased Land value               M           N     H (irrigate.)       o        Reduced         -
                                                                                                       ?
                 Increased Productivity             M           N     Reduced?            o           H            -
                 Increased Livestock ownership      M           M      Reduced           **        Reduced         -
                                                                       (horses)
                 Increased Farm prices             S-M          H
                 Diverse Crop allocation           M-L          N
                 Increased Market-oriented          M           N
                 produce
                 Increased Access to marketplace   S-M          M
                 Increased Access to credit        M-L          L     H (request         **           N            -
                                                                         only)
                 Increased No & income com.         M           L
                 ets...
                 Diverse Income structure          M-L          L          L              -        M (trade        o
                                                                                                      &
                                                                                                   services)
Employment       Change Type of occupation         M-L          L          L              -        H (less        **
                                                                                                     non-
                                                                                                    active)
                 Change Occupation category        M-L          N      L (more                        H            *
                                                                       formal)                     (unpaid
                                                                                                    family




                                                            32

                                                                                                             workers)
                   Change Productive activity              M-L          N            L              -        H (more       * / o
                                                                                                              agric.;
                                                                                                               less
                                                                                                              cattle)
                   Increase Agricultural day's wage         M           M
                   Change Labor force structure            M-L          L
   Migration       Decreased No. of migrants               M-L          N
                   Increased No. returning migrants        M-L          L
    Poverty        Decreased Poverty levels                 L        N (2000)     L (less           -          M/H           *
                                                                     L (2004)    extreme)                     (more
                                                                                                               non
                                                                                                               poor)
   Institutions    Increased No. of new institutions       S-M          M            L              -            L           -
  Road safety      Increased No. of traffic accidents       S           L           M               -
  Environment      Increased Use of land                    M           N           H               *        Reduced         o
                                                                                                                 ?
                   Increased Use of chemicals               M           N           N               -           N            -
                   Increased Deforestation                 S-M          L            L              -           M            -
 *: S: short; M: medium; L: long
 **: N: null; L: low; M: moderate; H: high
 ***: -: significance < 20%; o: significance 20%; *: significance 10%; **: significance 5%; ***: significance 1%



            A stakeholder workshop was also organized on March 13, 2007 allowing to receiving
            feedback from practitioners and beneficiaries. Key conclusions are presented in Annex 6.

            4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

            Rating: Moderate

            This part assesses the risk that development outcomes would not be maintained during
            the remaining useful life of the project, which will be characterized by the next rural
            roads project. The request by Government for the third phase to consolidate and extend
            the activities started under this project shows its strong commitment and provides a
            guarantee that the development outcomes will be maintained and strengthened.

              Risk                Risk rating              Mitigation measures to take into account the risks' likelihood of
                                                                            occurrence and possible impacts

The model developed by the          Moderate         At the local level, information and successful results have been highly
Project (gravel roads, routine                       disseminated, in particular the fact that this model is the most cost-efficient, and
maintenance      by     micro-                       that satisfactory feedback from rural communities is highly positive. The next
enterprises,      participatory                      project will also contribute to the model's sustainability, by including
planning) is rejected at the                         dissemination activities in one of the components.
local or national level                              At the national level, the model had been fully adopted by Provias Rural and
                                                     has inspired the design of the Regional Transport Decentralization project, co-
                                                     financed by the Bank and the IDB.




                                                                    33

NMTs       are    no    longer  Negligible Although the NMT network is little known, this risk is unlikely to occur. Under
considered as one of the         to Low    the Project, 3,465 km of NMT tracks (initial objective of 3,100km) have been
priorities and all national and            rehabilitated and maintained and 247 road committees have been created and
local efforts are dedicated to             now exist. The mechanism adopted for rehabilitation had proven to have the
larger roads                               lowest cost. Other donors and NGOs also finance some rehabilitation works,
                                           and the next project includes funds dedicated to NMTs. Moreover, as long a
                                           participatory prioritization planning process will be used, the rural poor will be
                                           empowered; and the rural poor generally give a higher priority to NMTs.

Lack of local counterpart       Moderate   Supreme Decree No. 017-2006-MTC (adopted in 2006) made permanent the
funds dedicated to routine                 transfer of resources dedicated to routine maintenance from the national level to
maintenance                                PRIs, so that local funds will not be lacking.

Local capacity is too low and   Moderate   The project included institutional strengthening at the local level, with
weakens future developments                assistance provided to Unidades Zonales, PRIs and micro-enterprises. In
                                           addition, Provias has now enough capacity to provide technical assistance at the
                                           local level; and the next project includes a local institutional strengthening
                                           component.

Lack of institutional capacity  Negligible Provias has been provided institutional strengthening and has gained capacity
at the national level (Provias   to Low    for the last 11 years. It has been so successful that Provias Rural and Provias
Descentralizado)                           Departamental were merged in 2006 into one single entity (Provias
                                           Descentralizado) adopting Provias Rural's structure and processes. Some
                                           additional institutional strengthening will be provided in the next operation,
                                           including the preparation of a plan turning Provias into a regulatory entity.

With greater decentralization,  Moderate   The institutions developed under the program (microenterprises, PRIs) have
local elites may capture the               existed for a long time and are subject to control mechanisms broadly involving
benefits of certain elements               local stakeholders that reduce the risk of elite capture. For example,
of    the     program     (e.g.            microenterprises are subject to the control of the local population, the road
microenterprises, PRIs) and                monitors, their "socios" and of the local governments through their PRI. The
weaken them.                               PRI are under the authority of the provincial road board and supervised by
                                           Provias through its "unidades zonales".

The plan piloto selva is no     Moderate   Successful results and lessons learned have been disseminated (in particular the
longer considered as one of                efficiency of the model finally adopted and the increase of private investment in
the priorities                             the implementation area). The plan will still be considered as a priority for the
                                           following reasons: (a) some works are still being conducted; (b) the plan has
                                           received strong local stakeholder support, with overlooking committees being
                                           created; (c) some funds are dedicated to the plan in the next operation.

The decentralization process    Moderate   A momentum to further the decentralization process was created in 2002 and
slows down or stops after                  has been enforced in 2006 with the Supreme Decree No. 017-2006-MTC. The
several     years   of    road             bank will maintain an active dialogue with the GoP through the next operation
management decentralization                to make sure that the process doesn't stop.

The     environmental      risk Negligible Environmental safeguards satisfactory to the Bank have been applied by
becomes higher after the end     to Low    Provias for the last 11 years so that they have become part of the rural roads
of the project                             Peruvian culture. Moreover, the nature of the model developed by the Project
                                           (rehabilitation of gravel roads), as long as it is used, limits the risks for the
                                           environment. The next operation will also ensure that risks for the environment
                                           remain negligible.




                                                          34

The institutional model of      Negligible   Dropping the model would be a huge step backward, with 121 provinces now
PRI, created by the Project, is   to Low     engaged in the process and 36 PRIs having reached full implementation
dropped                                      capacity, and 72 basic capacity. This component has probably been the most
                                             successful of the project and the PRI's model has proved to be very efficient.
                                             The next operation will scale up the model to the whole country and turn some
                                             PRIs into PIIs (Provincial Infrastructure Institute).

Gender mainstreaming efforts    Moderate     The Decentralized Rural Transport project, will keep promoting the gender
might be lost after the                      agenda under the broader concept of "Social Inclusion"
transference to local
governments

Insufficient transparency in    Moderate     The Decentralized Rural Transport project includes institutional strengthening
local bidding endangers the                  activities in this specific area. Provias acquired important know-how and
continuity of MEMV                           experience in transferring knowledge to municipalities. However, mitigating
conformed under the project                  this risk will require a huge effort in order to train the new local governments
                                             entering the program.

Lack of national and local      Moderate     The main risk comes from a possible lack of fiscal space due to the large
funds    dedicated    to  road               infrastructure projects that have recently been initiated in Peru. However, the
rehabilitation                               project has beneficiated from high visibility at the national and international
                                             level and benefits from a strong commitment from the government. Other
                                             donors have dedicated funds to the rural areas affected by the project and the
                                             Bank's next operation will ensure that funds are available at the national level.

OVERALL RISK                    Moderate



           5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

           5.1      Bank

           (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:

           Rating: Highly Satisfactory

           The Quality at Entry is rated as "highly satisfactory". The project preparation team was
           able to take stock of all the lessons of the previous operation (Rural Roads Rehabilitation
           and Maintenance) and include them in the design of this Project. These lessons were
           described in the learning ICR of the previous operation. One example of lessons that was
           drawn from the previous operation is the need for an instrument that could accelerate the
           emergence of productive activities in the areas where transport conditions have been
           improved, in order to increase the impact on poverty. This led to the design of the "Local
           Development Window".

           Justifications for the rating also include:

           · The introduction of a sound monitoring and evaluation system, based on the result of
                the 2000 impact evaluation study. This study was the first attempt to rigorously


                                                            35

    evaluate the actual impacts of rural roads interventions, based on extensive household
    surveys and the use of a control group. The preparation team was able to convince
    Provias that thorough impact evaluation studies, despite their costs, could facilitate a
    learning process through which rural transport policies could be disseminated and
    improved.

· The design of decentralized implementation procedures (in particular the Provincial
    Road Institutes model), first on a pilot basis but with the mid/long-term objective of
    scaling up. These mechanisms matched the Toledo administration's strong priorities
    in terms of decentralization.

· The use of participatory events in order to get a better understanding of the rural
    transport needs of poor rural communities and vulnerable groups (e.g. women).
· Additional innovations to explore rural transport needs in other environment (e.g.
    Plan Piloto Selva) or to increase social benefits (e.g. gender action plan).

· An excellent cooperation was also established with the IaDB during this preparation
    process.

(b) Quality of Supervision:

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The quality of supervision is rated as "highly satisfactory". The joint WB-IaDB project
performed 2 or 3 supervision missions per year, most of which included field visits
together with Provias as well as extensive discussions with beneficiaries and key local
stakeholders to get exposure to key issues. The excellent cooperation between the two
banks, despite occasional divergence on implementation policies, allowed for mixed-skill
supervision teams and cost-sharing. Combination of efforts from the Bank and IaDB
sides, coupled together with the specific contributions of a multidisciplinary supervision
team involving environmentalists, social development specialists, consultants (gender,
impact analysis) contributed to the project's success. As part of the supervision effort, the
two banks actively encouraged the exchange of views with think-tanks and NGOs,
beyond those directly involved in the project.

An active policy dialogue was sustained between the two banks and Provias (as
illustrated in extensive aide-memoires), which allowed monitoring results, re-orienting
policies and seeking enhanced impact through constant innovation. An example of such
innovations that were introduced during implementation as a result of this policy dialogue
is the design of specific road rehabilitation standards for the Selva (caminos vecinales
menores) and the revision of the road planning methodology. More broadly, the banks
brought new concepts and ideas (e.g. gender, M&E, rural infrastructure) during
implementation, through analytical work and targeted advisory services.

The Bank has been particularly active in the analysis of complementarities between roads
and other types of rural infrastructure interventions. This analysis, as well as the related
recommendations, were summarized in a specific ESW (Peru Rural Infrastructure



                                             36

Strategy:     Effectively    Underpinning     Local    Development      and     Fostering
complementarities), published in 2006. Theses recommendations led to the design of the
"rural infrastructure pilot" in the follow-on operation (Decentralized Rural Transport
project).

Finally, the project team was proactive in dealing with the reduced disbursement levels
observed in 2005, through the processing of an amendment ­ in coordination with the
IaDB, to modify the pari-passu between the two banks in order to accelerate
disbursements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated "highly satisfactory", taking into consideration the
quality at entry, the strong cooperation with the IDB and the sustained policy dialogue
with the GoP through a series of three rural transport operations that constitute an
exceptional example of how new rural transport instruments could be first tested and then
progressively streamlined over a period of more than a decade.

The project is known in the LAC region and beyond as a best practice and its design
influenced many other rural transport operations. Various events were organized to
disseminate lessons from this successful project. For example, a short video (Connecting
Development: Rural Roads in Peru) was produced in partnership with the Bank
Operations Services' department. The Peruvian experience about road maintenance
micro-enterprises (MEMV) was also described extensively in a micro-enterprises' toolkit,
together with the experience of other Latin America countries (Colombia, Honduras).

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance is rated "satisfactory". This is justified by the strong
momentum for decentralization initiated by the Toledo administration and likely to be
furthered by the Garcia administration. This momentum coincided with some key project
components (Provincial Road Institutes) that were initially envisaged on a pilot basis and
could subsequently be scaled up.

The project was highly regarded by other public agencies and by civil society throughout
implementation. GoP-imposed fiscal constraints during the years 2004-2005 resulted in
lack of counterpart funds or binding indebtedness ceiling during the last years of
implementation which delayed implementation, requiring a 17 months extension of the
closing date to be processed. However, it should be noted that the project was one of the




                                            37

least affected by the fiscal constraint among other public programs and that it remained
the best disbursement performer in the Bank investment portfolio during that period.

Despite significant fiscal revenues, the Garcia administration imposed (particularly in
2006) a number of strong austerity measures on the public sector. These measures did not
affect Provias' investment program but led to the unfortunate cancellation of a
dissemination event ("international rural transport seminar") that had been scheduled in
the last trimester of 2006.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The performance of Provias Rural, renamed in 2006 Provias Descentralizado, was rated
"highly satisfactory". As explained above, this rating is justified by both the robust
implementation efficiency of Provias which, together with reduced costs, explain why
initial physical targets were exceeded, but also by the excellent catalytic role that Provias
played to provide technical assistance to municipalities, in support to the decentralization
process. Diversity of staff, openness to innovation and rigor in the management of its
monitoring and evaluation system, are other positive elements to be highlighted.

Provias' performance is also confirmed by the international and national recognition it
received, as well as by the awards granted by the two banks (IaDB, WB President
Award), as well as by Peru's civil society.

Finally, the Project has been a subset of Provias' overall rural transport program. Using
the same implementation model, Provias has been seeking and obtaining other sources of
funding (USAID, Fondo Italo-Peruano, Fondo Peru-Francia, but also in some cases
private funds such as contributions from mining enterprises to finance specific road
maintenance activities) to expand its interventions. This is another illustration of how the
model proposed by the Project has been streamlined thanks to the catalytic role of
Provias Descentralizado.

(c)Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance was rated as "highly satisfactory" to account for the
successful results achieved by the implementing agency, and beyond, to the positive
interactions between the project and the GoP's broader agenda with regard to
decentralization.

Another positive element is the continuity of the rural transport policies engaged by the
GoP, through Provias, first with the Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project,
then with the Second Rural Roads project, and now with the Decentralized Rural
Transport project. Through this series of three projects, the Peru Rural Roads program



                                            38

has proved both to be consistent in its strategic objectives (poverty-focus, efficiency in
the use of resources with the adoption of low-cost rehabilitation techniques and
sustainability with due attention paid to routine maintenance), while bringing key
innovations in a timely manner (participatory planning processes, decentralized
institutions, complementarity with other types of investments). In this regard, the Peru
Second Rural Roads project has played a critical role to bridge key reforms engaged
under the first project with a long-term vision of fully decentralized, efficient rural
transport policies aligned with the territorial development strategies elaborated by rural
stakeholders.

6. Lessons Learned

Continuing a learning process begun with the first phase of the rural road program, the
project offers rich lessons about what can ensure the sustainability of both investments
and implementation capacity. One of the most striking features of the project relies in its
integrated approach through its multi-facets components and how they have been
coordinated together in a systemic graduated manner. With six components, covering
many aspects of rural infrastructure (rehabilitation, maintenance, institutional
strengthening, participation), it could have been difficult to logically articulate and
monitor/evaluate them while giving sense to the whole. In such a project starting
conditions, flexibility, participation, a robust M&E framework exploited by a learning
organization such as Provias were keys.

By including the various stakeholders and engendering the project activities, the project
illustrates a new demand-driven paradigm for transport planning and economic
development. As part of this new paradigm, the project has allowed to advance
knowledge in the design of an interconnected set of elements that reinforce each other,
and several of them with built-in structures that create the incentives for adequate and
sustained performance. Examples of this are the micro-enterprise model and the
provincial road institutes. This paradigm emphasized "gradualism" and research. The
project led to the development of innovative instruments for rural road programs through
the design and implementation of several pilots (such as a "Plan Piloto Selva" that
explored ways to customize rural transport solutions, including river-based, to the context
of the Peruvian Selva; and a "provincial road management pilot" that was successfully
replicated for secondary roads). Building on the decentralization reforms, the project also
helped the management of rural roads to be progressively handed over to municipalities,
making rural roads one of the sectors where decentralization has been the most
successful.

Improved transport conditions of rural roads can translate into better access to
social services (health, education) and to income-generating opportunities. The three
impact evaluations of the rural roads program illustrated the benefits of rural roads
interventions on school attendance, visits to health centers but also access to markets and
agricultural productivity. These results are a strong advocate for investing in rural roads
as part of a poverty reduction and growth strategy for rural areas.




                                             39

Participatory planning and inclusion can ensure better targeting of resources while
better responding to community needs. The project aimed to empower the rural poor in
the process of selecting roads that should be rehabilitated. In this context, participatory
plans identifying key rural roads and NMT paths (or other rural infrastructure in the case
of the Participatory Provincial Infrastructure Plans) ensured that local stakeholders' needs
were fully reflected in the prioritization of investment alternatives and helped understand
the poverty links as perceived by communities. Various consultations and participatory
workshops during the design phase in the targeted villages ensured the engagement and
inclusion of all beneficiaries and community members from the design through the
implementation phase. A methodology was developed so that local stakeholders could
solve key tradeoffs between investment alternatives while limiting the risks of capture of
the decision-making process by individual interests. The provincial level was the
appropriate compromise between working at a territorial level to create economies of
scale and ensuring proper accountability to rural stakeholders.

A maintenance strategy for transport infrastructure can act as a catalyst for
developing private sector and entrepreneurial attitudes. The inclusion of micro-
enterprises to perform routine maintenance for the upkeep of the road network addressed
the difficulties of ensuring central-government maintenance of a myriad of scattered rural
roads and the failure of traditional municipal accounts to provide sufficient funds for
financing. In addition to being cost-effective, the micro-enterprise program had spillover
effects on local development initiatives, creating employment opportunities for the rural
populations involved and becoming contact points for extension services, and even
mobilizing untapped local resources for local community ventures.

Gravel roads can be a sustainable and cost-effective technical solution to improve
rural transport infrastructure. Peru's experience confirmed international evidence that
paving roads is not the most cost-effective solution to address transport needs on low-
traffic roads (i.e. below 200 vehicles per day). Instead, for rural roads where traffic levels
do typically exceed 50 vehicles per day, gravel roads constituted by far the most adequate
technical solution in rural Peru. Moreover, under proper maintenance arrangements,
gravel roads are both a cost-effective and sustainable option.

Municipalities that are provided with the right mix of technical expertise and
financial resources can efficiently manage rural road assets. Decentralization in Peru
has been most successful in the rural roads sector. Starting in 1995, Peruvian authorities
have successfully designed and implemented a rural road management program through
several pilots, which has led to the development of innovative instruments and new rural
transport approaches.12 The inherent institutional and financial weaknesses of
municipalities made the initial efforts to decentralize rural road management and to build
up local capacity in the rural road sector difficult. These weaknesses were addressed
through the creation of Provincial Road Institutes (PRIs), which have proved to be an
efficient decentralized model for the management of rural roads, provided they receive
adequate technical and management assistance to start them up. The PRIs, established

12The first experimental decentralized "Provincial Road Institute" PRI was in Arequipa; there are now 108
PRIs with basic or fully-established operational capacity.


                                                    40

under the authority of the provincial mayors, allowed municipalities to reach sufficient
institutional capacity to manage effectively their rural roads assets while being governed
by empowered local authorities.

Coordination of road rehabilitation with local productive activities can stimulate
development and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the rural roads project
itself. In the fight against poverty, road rehabilitation is generally not sufficient to
overcome isolation while promoting local development. Past impact evaluations have
shown that significant improvement of transport conditions (reduction of travel times and
travel costs, greater availability and reliability of transport services) follow the
rehabilitation of transport infrastructures. However, the impact on poverty reduction and
local economic development takes much longer. Consequently, the project established an
independent structure, the Local Development Window (LDW), to help identify
synergies between areas for productive growth, create linkages between local service
providers, and coordinate access to key financial services in areas where rural transport
conditions were improved. The project showed that, in parallel with the improvement of
transport conditions that can make access to local markets easier and more reliable, an
implementing agency such as the LDW can promote opportunities for self-employment
and income generation activities for both the local and regional economy (see Box 1).


      Box 1: Successful activities promoted by the Local Development Window (LDW)

Since 2002, the Local Development Window (LDW) has intervened in 85 districts in the 12
poorest provinces of Peru, identifying the best productive initiatives while reducing transaction
costs for potential sponsors. Selected initiatives were presented during "project fairs" (ferias).
Between October 2001 and September 2006 and under the active management of CARITAS, the
LDW identified 850 initiatives at pre-feasibility stage, of which 167 reached feasibility stage and
72 found a sponsor. Eight regional fairs and one national one were organized, leveraging SDR 7.2
million of financing from various sponsors.

The `Sweet Hope for the Poor' or Yacon production project in the Junín Department

Selected as one of the activities to be promoted by the LDW, the project supported the cultivation
as well as commercialization for both local and world markets of a root called Yacon. At risk of
extinction, the crop had traditionally been used for its natural medical virtues since the period of
the Inca civilization. The project, managed by an association of producers, benefited 40 families
living in the district of Orcotuna (Junín Department).

Fish farms in Sauce, San Martín Department

The community of Sauce (San Martín Department) identified through the LDW the start-up
financial resources necessary for the development of tilapia fish farms. Road access between the
Lake of Sauce and the provincial market of Tarapoto prevented the community from taking
advantage of the economic potential of the lake. In addition to road rehabilitation, which reduced
the average time necessary to reach Tarapoto from six to two hours, approximately 61 families
benefited from the project, with female participation estimated at approximately 40 percent. The
project also led to the creation of a Cooperative composed by a Committee of non-industrial
fishermen and a Committee of Dames, which assumes tasks related to product commercialization
and coordination with the Sauce Municipality.




                                                41

Decentralization can improve rural roads programs, which in turn can contribute to
strengthening the decentralization agenda as well as territorial development. The
national decentralization process that took place in Peru facilitated reforms in the rural
roads sector. However, the development of the rural road program and the "Participatory
Provincial Road Plans," which were prepared by the key rural provincial stakeholders,
also had positive effects on the strengthening of decentralization reforms and resulted in
better aligned rural roads investments with territorial development strategies. Likewise,
by contributing to participatory planning, budget systems, and contract terms for local
municipalities, the LDW helped strengthened municipal procedures and management
capability, road maintenance and local development management.13 More recently, the
LDW has started to move its planning methodology at the regional level, with the
preparation of the first rural infrastructure plans in the provinces of Arequipa, La
Convención and Cotabambas. As the LDW proved to be a relevant instrument to promote
rural growth while strengthening community participation and municipalities'
institutional capacity, its scaling up has been proposed for the implementation of the
follow-up project.

Women's involvement in road project design and maintenance activities can result
in social outcomes commonly ignored by traditional road upgrading systems. The
project paid particular attention to the role of women, requiring at least 10 percent of the
micro-enterprise members and at least 20 percent of road committee members to be
women. Women's participation showed that women are keen to provide feedback on how
lack of transport services affects their day-to-day lifestyles. It also provided them with
economic opportunities linked to road maintenance activities that would otherwise not
have been available to them (24% of the micro-entrepreneurs are now women). In direct
response to the transport needs expressed by women, phase 2 of the program supported
improvements not only to the roads connecting to the communities but also to non-
motorized tracks, which are most often used by women and are commonly ignored by
road upgrading. In beneficiary communities there was greater openness to women using
health centers and going to markets. Overall, the participation of women in the project
facilitated the acquisition of new skills, knowledge, and confidence, with a social and
personal impact for both women and their families: (i) men and women had a social a
more balanced distribution of domestic work at home and in the community; (ii) women
improved their self-image and increased their income; (iii) women's participation
contributed to the emergence of a new image of gender relations in the social and cultural
life of the communities. Women are now more active in community-decision making and
accessing leadership positions in local organizations.

Strong cooperation between development organizations such as the Bank and the
IaDB can be a factor of success. The experience of the Peru Rural Roads program
illustrated how two multilateral entities were able to work together under a framework
that emphasizes the adding up of the comparative value of the two organizations' teams


13The preparation of territorial development plans was a condition for municipalities to be accredited by
the National Decentralization Council (CND in Spanish) and be eligible for increased intergovernmental
transfers.


                                                  42

and an open approach to the discussion of topics and the resolution of conflicts. The
added value of the project also came from the interest of all stakeholders (the two banks
and Provias) in harmonization policies.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies:

In its comments, Provías Descentralizado underlined the very positive impacts that the
project, and more broadly the three-phase program, had on the rural transport conditions,
access to basic and social services, transaction costs, employment, local and regional
economies, socio-economic conditions, and poverty in rural Peru. More specifically, the
following positive impacts were highlighted (see Annex 7):

    · The Second Rural Roads project constituted a very creative and innovative
        response to the challenges that rural Peru was facing and to the urgent needs of its
        rural population. Its design stuck to the reality and to the specificities of rural
        areas and made this project participative, sustainable, supportive of the
        decentralization process and complementary to existing initiatives.

    · The project has been inclusive and has involved the most vulnerable and the
        poorest segments of the Peruvian rural population. In particular, it provided jobs
        and sustainable revenues to a substantial number of rural poor and it promoted the
        participation of women in entrepreneurial activities, mainly through micro-
        enterprises and the LDW. Women empowerment has proved to have a major
        impact on family life and in particular on the nutrition and education of children.

    · The project, and more broadly the three-phase program, contributed to change the
        Peruvian old habits regarding rural roads management. The promotion of the
        triptych construction-rehabilitation-maintenance has helped to substitute the old
        vicious circle by a new virtuous rural roads management life cycle where a well
        integrated rural roads network can count on rehabilitation works followed by
        periodic and routine maintenance activities.
    · The impacts of NMTs have been enormous: the project not only contributed to
        improve their transitability, but also contributed to include the most vulnerable
        and excluded parts of the rural population by directly involving them in the
        participatory planning processes. To this extent, the Comités Viales Rurales
        constitute a very powerful integration tool which increased the sense of ownership
        by local populations with regard to NMTs.

    · One of the most positive impacts of the project is the improvement of the local
        capacity, which has been achieved through the co-financing of routine
        maintenance, the constitution of PRIs, the implementation of the participatory
        provincial road plans, the LDW and the constitution of micro-enterprises.

    · One of the main lessons learned is that a rural roads program is not only a series
        of works, but also has to include a number of components that could bring added-
        value and improve the socio-economic conditions of the targeted populations. To



                                             43

       this extent, the participation of the local population at all stages of the project is
       key to increase impacts and to ensure the sustainability of the investments.

(b)    Cofinanciers:

The IaDB sent comments highlighting the very positive experience of the project,
particularly with regard to the following issues (see Annex 8):

   · Flexible project design allowed Provias Descentralizado to adapt to the evolving
       needs of rural stakeholders (e.g. the decentralization reforms facilitated the co-
       financing of road maintenance activities)

   · Provias Descentralizado proved to be an efficient institution, opened to
       innovation and eager to "learning by doing". This institutional leadership played
       an important role in project's success. Through the new operation, it should be
       furthered in the context of the decentralization reforms and Provias should
       manage its already-engaged transition from an executing agency toward a
       regulatory entity. This will require in particular the strengthening of technical
       aspects such as road rehabilitation norms and road life cycle management.

   · Strong coordination between the two banks brought added-value to project design
       and supervision, particularly with regard to the introduction of new concepts and
       technical arrangements. This coordination was well-appreciated by the Peruvian
       counterparts. This coordination could have been furthered in the area of
       procurement, where the IaDB felt that more flexibility could have been granted to
       Provias in order to customize processes to the specificities of rural areas.

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

No comments were formally received from other partners and stakeholders.

Nevertheless, positive feedbacks were received at multiple occasions during
implementation, particularly in 2005, when Provias received a "best government practice"
award from the Peruvian civil society.




                                             44

                                         ANNEXES

                         Annex 1.      Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

           Components               Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                     (USD millions)       (USD millions)       Appraisal
REHABILITATION OF RURAL
ROADS AND CONNECTING                       61.70               65.33             105.88
ROADS
ROUTINE AND PERIODIC
MAINTENANCE OF RURAL
ROADS AND CONNECTING                       51.80               38.59             74.51

ROADS
IMPROVEMENT OF NON-
MOTORIZED RURAL                              5.65               5.32             94.10
TRANSPORT
PROVINCIAL ROAD
MANAGEMENT PILOT                             2.95               1.95             66.00

RIVER TRANSPORT
IMPROVEMENT PILOT                            5.30               1.62             30.51

INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT:
IMPROVEMENT OF RURAL                         1.37               1.77             129.18
TRANSPORT        POLICY AND
STRATEGIES:
* IMPROVEMENT OF RURAL
ROAD PLANNING AND                            3.71               2.92             78.66
MANAGEMENT
* DEVELOPMENT OF
COMMUNITY-BASED
MICROENTERPRISES FOR ROAD                    2.80               3.76             134.23

MAINTENANCE
* STRENGTHENING LOCAL
CAPACITY TO ENGAGE IN
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES                      0.72               0.76             106.19

(LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
WINDOW)
* PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                   14.00               14.89             106.36



                Total Baseline Cost       150.00              136.43            90.95

Physical Contingencies                       0.00                0.00           0.00

Price Contingencies                          0.00                0.00           0.00
                 Total Project Costs      150.00                 0.00           0.00
Project Preparation Fund                     0.00                0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           1.00                1.00          100.00
         Total Financing Required         151.00              137.43            91.02




                                               45

(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal    Actual/Latest
           Source of Funds              Type of                                Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing   Estimate      Estimate
                                                  (USD millions) (USD millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                          51.00         43.76          85.80
Inter-American Development Bank                   50.00         45.48          90.96
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   50.00         48.19          96.38




                                             46

                          Annex 2.        Outputs by Component

The project has been implemented in 121 provinces (573 districts), mostly belonging to
the twelve poorest Peruvian departments (representing about half of the country). Over
the project's lifetime, the poverty ranking of those departments has remained stable and
these 12 departments still belong to the countries' 16 poorest.

Most of the physical targets set for the project were surpassed by its closing date on
November 30, 2006. The provincial decentralization pilot (component 4) also exceeded
very significantly its initial target and proved to be perfectly aligned with Peru's agenda
for greater decentralization at the municipal level.

In all departments but Madre de Dios, the final output of rehabilitated roads was higher
than the initial target. The additional output of rehabilitated roads benefited, to a
significant extent, to the departments where the 2001 extreme poverty rate was the
highest (see Figure 1).

              Figure 1: Stock of rehabilitated roads vs. extreme poverty levels




Key outputs by component are described below:

Component 1: Rehabilitation of Rural Roads and Connecting Primary and
Secondary Roads

At closing, the program had rehabilitated 4,692 km of roads, compared to an initial
objective of 3,575 km. This was made possible due to a lower-than-expected
rehabilitation cost per km (average cost of 14,050 US$ per km compared to an initial
estimation of 17,300 US$ per km). Rehabilitated roads include 4,039 km of rural roads
and 653 km of connecting primary and secondary roads (compared to an objective of
respectively 3,225 km and 350 km).

Adding up the 4,692 km of rural roads rehabilitated under the Second Rural Roads
Project to the 8,882 km of rural roads rehabilitated under the Rural Roads Rehabilitation


                                              47

and Maintenance Project and to the 502 km of roads financed by other donors (USAID,
Fondo Italo-Peruano, Fondo Contravalor Peru-Francia, The Netherlands, Devida and
Prodatu) under the same model, it is a total of 14,076 km of rural roads that have been
rehabilitated by Provias Rural (now Provias Descentralizado) over slightly more than a
decade. This represents about 32 percent of the total Peruvian rural roads network. In the
twelve departments that have been targeted by the Second Rural Roads Project, it is an
average of 49 percent of the network that has been rehabilitated.

As initially envisaged, rural roads were rehabilitated using exclusively low-cost
rehabilitation techniques (gravel roads), prioritized by local stakeholders through
participatory road planning.

It is estimated that rehabilitation works helped create 27,514 seasonal unskilled jobs
(compared to an initial objective of 10,000); 8,258 from rehabilitation of rural roads
(1,614 skilled and 6,644 unskilled), 8,126 from the rehabilitation of NMT tracks (615
skilled and 7,511 unskilled) and 11,131 from periodic maintenance (2,566 skilled and
8,565 unskilled).

Component 2: Routine and Periodic Maintenance of Rural Roads and Connecting
Primary and Secondary Roads

At closing, the project had extended the routine maintenance system with micro-
enterprises from 11,295 km to 14,750 km, compared to an initial objective of 13,495 km.
To this end, the number of micro-enterprises had been increased from 340, at project
start, up to 532, at closing (compared to an initial target of 470). A greater number of
micro-enterprises were needed to maintain the larger network of rehabilitated roads
(roads are better maintained when a single micro-enterprise is in charge of 20 km of
roads instead of 30 km, as it was initially thought). Out of the 642 micro-enterprises
created by Provias, the financing of 456 has been transferred to local governments (126
in 2003 and 330 in 2004-2005), 109 to regional governments and 13 to Provias Nacional,
as a pilot to experiment micro-enterprise-based maintenance on primary roads. Only 58
are still being financed directly by Provias Descentralizado, and 6 have been directly
created by the Provincial Road Institute of Arequipa.

The transfer of the financing of the micro-enterprises made in 2003 represents an annual
cost of US$ 1.5 million for 2,850 km. Similarly, the transfers made in 2004-2005
represent an annual cost of US$ 6.3 million for 7,678 km of rural roads, for which 40
percent is financed by local governments from their own resources. The rest was financed
by the program through a specific intergovernmental transfer to local governments. In
2006, this transfer was made permanent, thus ensuring the sustainability of the
maintenance mechanism.

The project also financed the periodic maintenance of 8,598 km of rural roads. Most of
these roads had been rehabilitated under the Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project.




                                            48

The combination of routine and periodic maintenance helped optimize the life cycle of
rehabilitated rural roads. It also demonstrated that the gravel rehabilitation standards can
be sustainable and be a cost-effective alternative to paving (see Box 2).


                         Box 2: Life cycle of a rural road near Cusco
The 2nd Rural Roads project constitutes the second phase of a broader rural roads program which
was initiated 12 years ago, with the Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (first
phase). Some roads which were rehabilitated during the first phase received periodic maintenance
under the follow-on project (second phase).

The road Cusco-Coorca-Totora is a good example of the complementarities of the two projects.
This 30 km road located in the district of Cusco (province and department of Cusco), had been
rehabilitated in 1996. Coorca, the micro-enterprise in charge of the routine maintenance of the
road, had been created the same year. It employs 3 people on a permanent basis.

This rural road received periodic maintenance in 2001, under the second phase of the program,
for a total cost of 107,000 soles (approximately US$ 32,000). The financing for routine
maintenance, was transferred in 2006 to the corresponding local governments by supreme decree
N 017-2006-MTC.

This rural road will receive another periodic maintenance under the next phase of the program
(Decentralized Rural Transport Project). The combination of efficient and well-planned routine
and periodic maintenance activities should allow extending the life cycle of this gravel road (i.e.
the delay between two rehabilitations) to more than 15 years! This example illustrates how well
maintained, low-cost gravel roads can constitute a sound and sustainable alternative to more
expensive technical options (such as paving).

Source: Provias Descentralizado

Micro-enterprises helped creating employment opportunities for poor people from rural
communities living nearby the rehabilitated roads. At closing, 5,997 permanent
unqualified employment opportunities had been created, compared to an initial objective
of 5,500. Thanks to the gender action plan approved in June 2005, the proportion of
women in micro-enterprises increased from 4 percent at project start to 23 percent for the
micro-enterprises created under the Second Rural Roads Project.

Finally, and although this was not an initial project objective, Provias Descentralizado
(then Provias Rural) helped transferring at the regional level the maintenance model with
microenterprises. Provias Rural worked with regional governments and with Provias
Departamental (at that time, the national agency in charge of the regional road network)
to transfer the maintenance model that had been developed on 2,706 km of regional
(secondary) roads that had been rehabilitated under the Rural Roads Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project. This helped the preparation and implementation of another Bank-
financed project (Regional Transport Decentralization Project) which was approved in
July 2005 with the objective of helping the decentralization of regional roads
management to regional governments.




                                               49

Component 3: Improvement of Non-Motorized Rural Transport (NMT)

At closing, the project had financed the improvement of 3,465 km of NMT tracks,
compared to an initial objective of 3,100 km. This greater output can be explained by a
lower-than expected improvement cost.

The total network of NMT tracks in Peru is little known but, based on the results of
thorough inventories that were made in the provinces of Sihuas, Ocros (both provinces
are located in the department of Ancash) and Picota (department of San Martin), it is
estimated that it could range from 56,000 to 184,000 km. Based on these assumptions, in
the departments were the project has been operating, it is possible to estimate that 4 to 12
percent of the total NMT has been improved.

NMT tracks that were improved were selected by local stakeholders through
"prioritization workshops" that were part of the preparation process for the participatory
provincial road plans.

The organization set in place for the improvement of NMT tracks involved three actors:
the beneficiary population, constituted in "rural road committees" ("Comités viales") in
partnership with local authorities; local NGOs specialized in rural development, and more
particularly in sustainable and participatory processes; and national government through
Provias Descentralizado. Each actor brought its own resources and capacity: Provias
Descentralizado financed 70% of the cost of the works (US$1,750 per km) and provided
overall supervision and technical assistance. Local NGOs were responsible for: financing
and conducting preliminary studies and socio-economic evaluation of the targeted area
(these studies cost US$ 400 per km); promoting, organizing and constituting rural road
committees; and making a technical and operational manual, including a cost analysis.
Rural Road committees were then contracted by Provias Descentralizado and were
responsible for the execution of the works. Their contribution in labor represented 30
percent of the cost of the works. Rural road committees received technical assistance
from NGOs during the building period which took 4 to 6 months.

The project helped constitute 247 road committees, with the assistance of 31 local NGOs.
About 500 rural communities benefited from the component. The cumulated contribution
of rural roads committees through their labor force has been estimated to an equivalent of
US$ 3.9 million. Rural road committees have been maintaining the improved NMT
tracks.

Finally, with the financial assistance of other donors (e.g. French Aid Agency), Provias
Descentralizado has been improving NMT tracks of tourism significance. An example is
the 32 km track that leads to the Inca ruins of Choquequirao in Apurimac and Cusco.

Component 4: Provincial Road Management Pilot

This component may be the most successful of all since it was initially envisaged as a
pilot and became almost streamlined at the time of closing. The initial objective was to



                                             50

"test an institutional model for managing the rural road network at the provincial level, in
which the municipal authorities of the province (provincial and district municipalities)
will jointly assume responsibility over the development and condition of a core provincial
network". The component aimed at testing, first in one Peruvian province (Arequipa) and
then in at least 12 provinces, an innovative, fully decentralized, institutional model
named "Provincial Road Institute" (PRI).

At closing, 36 PRIs had been created and had reached full implementation capacity of
which 26 were the most advanced, 72 had reached basic institutional capacity and 13
were in creation. In total, 121 provinces (i.e. the entirety of project area) were engaged, at
various stages of implementation, in the creation of a PRI.


      Box 3: The Provincial Road Institute of Yungay: example of a very advanced PRI

The PRI of Yungay, created in 2002, gathers in one single institution the provincial government
of Yungay and the 7 local governments of the districts that constitute the province. This institute
is responsible for: (i) developing, managing and updating the provincial road plan; (ii) planning
and managing the provincial rural road network; and (iii) financing the routine maintenance of the
186 km of rural roads which have been rehabilitated by the former Provias Rural (this transfer
was made through two supreme decrees in 2004 and 2006). To achieve its objectives, the PRI has
signed agreements with each of the 4 districts concerned by the rehabilitation works and has a
budget of 640,000 soles (approximately US$ 194,000), with 60% coming from the province and
40% from the districts. Part of the funds comes from the national government and is channeled
through the province and the districts: ordinary resources (transferred by the central level to local
governments) account for 58%, while Foncomun accounts for 42% of the PRI's budget. The PRI
is staffed with a manager, an operation officer, a treasurer and one assistant, the two latter being
employed by the provincial government of Yungay.

As of today, the PRI of Yungay finances 7 micro-enterprises, representing 70 permanent jobs,
which maintain the 186 km of rural roads transferred by Provias. It has also contracted different
work studies financed by Provias. In addition, the PRI has contracted and executed by itself the
reparation and upgrading of 8 small bridges. For the future, it plans to rehabilitate and upgrade 6
rural roads and to conduct the periodic maintenance on one rural road, all works being financed
by Provias Descentralizado. Regarding its planning function, the PRI is currently updating its
provincial road plan which was prepared in 2002. For all these activities, the institute closely
coordinates with Provias, both at the central and local level, through the Unidad Zonal.

Source: Provias Descentralizado

The component initially included the rehabilitation and maintenance of about 200 km of
priority roads in the pilot province of Arequipa in a fully decentralized manner (i.e. with
the direct involvement of the PRI). Early-on in project implementation, 158 km of roads
were actually rehabilitated and maintained under this component. With the expansion and
streamlining of the PRI model, other works involving PRIs were then financed under
component 1.

In a Peruvian context in which the decentralization reforms gained significant momentum
after 2002, the institutional model of the PRI had proved to be a very effective tool to
empower municipalities and overcome the institutional fragmentation of the municipal
sector through the constitution of effective partnership between district and provincial


                                                51

municipalities. The follow-on, Bank-financed operation (Decentralized Rural Transport
Project), approved on December 2006, will build on these achievements by (1) scaling up
to the entire country the PRI model; and (2) experimenting in selected provinces a
transition from "Provincial Road Institutes" toward "Provincial Infrastructure Institutes"
in order to foster greater complementarities across the rural infrastructure sectors.

Component 5: River Transport Improvement Pilot

This pilot (Plan Piloto Selva or PPS in Spanish) aimed at developing a comprehensive
(institutional, technical, safeguards) model to improve rural transport, customized to the
context of the Peruvian Selva, and in doing so, improve access to services such as
education and health for the Indigenous communities and poor settlers. One related initial
objective was to assess the relevance and modalities of improving river-based transport
which is the most important transport mode in the Amazon region. To this end, the PPS
included: (i) implementation of small inter-modal transport projects to allow access to
river and terrestrial transport, including the construction of wharfs; (ii) Rehabilitation of
rural roads that link towns to river access and productive areas; and (iii) Improvement of
rural roads and NMT tracks that allow villages' access to the rural roads and to the
wharfs. Due to the lack of former experiences in the Selva region, the PPS aimed at
assessing methodologies as well as processes related to all aspects of project
implementation. The final objective of the PPS was to extract lessons and assess its
potential for replication in other parts of the Peruvian Amazon basin.

To implement the pilot, Provias Descentralizado worked hand in hand with the
governmental research institute specialized in the Amazon basin (Instituto de
Investigaciones de la Amazonia Peruana or IIAP) which provided social supervision to
the project. The PPS was carried out following best practices standards, including the
preparation of an in-depth Socio-Environmental Study (ESS) and Action Plans by a
consortia compounded by one environmental and two social firms. The ESS included a
socio-economic assessment as well as physical and biological evaluations, while the
Action Plans included Indigenous Peoples Plans, an environmental protection plan and a
monitoring and evaluation plan. The studies were made with the intense participation of
the local communities, Indigenous and settlers, as well as the involved municipalities and
the regional and local authorities.

A limited area was selected, including three locations along the Ucayali River between
the city of Pucallpa and the town of Atalaya. The PPS was implemented in the Districts
of Masisea Iparia and Tahuania and benefited communities from two Indigenous ethnic
groups, the Ashaninka and the Shipibo-Conibo, as well as the small towns and settlers'
villages in the area.

The methodology implemented in the PPS allowed for the inclusion of activities beyond
transport improvement, such as the promotion of strategic partnerships to strengthen local
organizations and provide technical and financial advice for developing productive
projects, as well as to facilitate coordination and synergies with other sectors (agriculture,




                                              52

fisheries, etc.) for the preparation of development projects in the area of influence of the
PPS.

In total eight road projects were identified through participatory workshops for both
districts, totaling around 5 million dollars. As part of the expected synergies these works
were to have, 8 development projects were identified to be implemented in the area of
influence of the PPS. At closing, a total of 47.63 km of NMT tracks were finalized, which
represent 100% completion. In regard to the rural roads, two sets were planned: 1) rural
roads and 2) lower standard rural roads. The first set comprised a total of 50.11 km, out
of which 18.70 km have started the initial civil works and 25.02 km are still pending.
Regarding the second set, out of the initial 138.43 km, 5.76 km have been completed,
55.91 km are in an advanced stage and 76.75 km are still pending. From the last figure,
three segments representing 45.28 km are not being considered until the required bridges
are built with support from the regional governments, or less costly alternatives are
identified. The construction of these bridges is beyond the financial capacity of the PPS.
The preliminary works for the 2 wharfs have started and these will be built by the
Regional Governments. All the pending works are expected to be implemented during
2007 and finalized by the end of 2008.

The causes behind these delays are related to a number of challenges faced by the PPS
before and during construction in great deal due to the climate conditions of the Amazon
basin. Before construction the PPS had to face the fact that there were few interested
firms in the bidding process. This was due to, among other reasons, the lack of
experience in rehabilitating rural roads in the Peruvian Amazon, the risk involved in
moving heavy equipment by river for works with small financial scope, and concern due
too frequent and heavy rainfall. During construction the following limitations were faced:
it was impossible to move heavy equipment on the ground during the rainy season, the
firms did not have their own equipment and had to depend from renting from others. The
material needed for construction had to be brought from further south and transportation
was only possible during the rainy season due to river levels, which coincides with the
highest demand for barges because this is the time for logging gathering and
transportation.

A Bank mission to the Masisea region was organized in April 2007 to assess results from
the PPS. The most important lessons learned are related to the relationships between
climate seasonal variations and local topography, as well as to the local participation and
local and regional government commitment.

On the first issue, the PPS has found out that the development of civil works for road
rehabilitation and wharf construction require at least two stages in different seasons. The
first stage is for the recollection of construction materials and depending on the
topography and location of materials it has to be made either in the dry season or in the
rainy season, while actual construction has to wait for the dry season. So in some
instances to finalize one of the road projects it could take around a year, and even more,
while in other cases it could be done in two seasons. This had cost implications as well as
the requirement of a flexible schedule. Overall it clearly showed that working in the Selva



                                              53

region requires much more time than in the Sierra. The topography of the areas also
showed that the number of small bridges require to complete a road cannot be
underestimated due to the terrain prone to flooding.

Another lesson learned is that the bidding process should target firms located in the Selva
region because those coming from urban settings like Lima lack experience in working in
the Amazonian terrain.

As a consequence of the specific challenges of the Selva (difficult access, lack of local
materials, reduced competition), rehabilitation costs have been found to be much higher
than in the rest of Peru. In order to reduce rehabilitation costs, taking also into count the
lower traffic levels, road rehabilitation standards could be simplified. One first step in
that direction was made by Provias with the design of specific standards (Caminos
Vecinales Menores) which are an adaptation of regular rural roads design to traffic
conditions in the Selva (low traffic constituted mostly from "moto-taxis"). Provias plans
to continue studying rehabilitation alternatives customized to the Selva.

On a second set of issues, the PPS showed that local Indigenous communities as well as
settler's towns and municipalities were eager to participate and to have the road projects
completed. They set up committees to overlook the civil works, ensure security of the
materials and safety of the civil works, and avoid the transit of trucks that work in wood
extraction as to protect their forest. Regarding the expected productive projects there has
been less financial commitment on the part of the regional authorities than previously
expected.

IPDP Sub-projects. For identifying and agreeing on the subprojects to be supported
under the PPS, several workshops were carried out in six areas. These included
representatives from the Indigenous communities and local authorities. Three areas were
identified: productive activities, social infrastructure and capacity building.

(a)   Productive activities: fish farms in Lake Imiria; reforestation with native species in
      Masisea, Iparia and Tahuania; re-population with native fish species in the lakes of
      Tahuania, Islas Canarias, and Masisea; development of tourist facilities in Lake
      Imiria. Technical assistance for sugar cane production in Iparia;

(b)   Social infrastructure: projects for drinkable water and rural electrification in
      Masisea. Improvement of the health services in Masisea, Iparia, and Tahuania;

(c)   Capacity building: Creation of the Community Reserve in Lake Imiria.

The project on rural electrification and the improvement of health services in Tahuania
have been delivered by the Regional Governments.

The PPS commitment was to support the local authorities in their efforts to coordinate
with the government sectors relevant to the projects listed above, not to directly finance
their implementation. Provias Rural considers that these initiatives should be part of
Ventana del Desarrollo because the PPS is still under implementation and this situation
provides an opportunity to further support them.



                                               54

An unexpected outcome has been the increase of private investment in the area. Masisea
has become the largest papaya producer in the region with around 2,000 has of this crop,
due to land access provided by road improvement.


                                             Box: Plan Piloto Selva




An unexpected outcome of the PPS has been a significant  The PPS has benefited the Shipibo-Conibo of this area.

increase in papaya production in the Masisea district,   One of the largest Indigenous groups of the Peruvian

turning it in one of the largest producer's area in the  Amazon basin.

Peruvian Amazon basin.




Some of the NMT tracks link small villages with lakes    Heavy road rehabilitation equipments are transported by
that facilitate access to fishing resources, encourages  boat on the Ucayali river.
fishing farm investing and has potential to incentive
tourism for the benefit of the surrounding communities.


Component 6: Institutional Development

This component encompassed four activities:

6.1       Improving Rural Transport Policies and Strategies

Key outputs financed under this activity include:



                                                       55

· Strengthen decentralization policies: Within this activity, Provias Descentralizado
 maintained an active dialogue with other Peruvian agencies involved in the
 decentralization reforms. The program was highlighted in the successive
 Government's Annual Transfer Plans (Planes de Transferencia) as one of the
 most successful and effective initiatives to transfer new responsibilities to sub-
  national governments.

· Make the financing of routine maintenance sustainable: Throughout project life
  time, Provias Descentralizado has been working actively with MEF to make
  permanent the transfer of specific budget resources to municipalities to pay for
  routine maintenance and make the micro-enterprise model sustainable. This goal
  was achieved in 2006 with the publication of Supreme Decree No. 017-2006-
  MTC which transfers on a permanent basis to municipalities specific resources in
  order to finance the routine maintenance (and related administrative costs) of
  rehabilitated rural roads.

· Promote gender: A "gender action plan" was prepared and implemented by an
  individual consultant contracted under this component. The action plan allowed
  streamlining gender in various activities, including: micro-enterprises, road
  committees and Local Development Window initiatives.

· Impact evaluation: Two thorough impact evaluation studies (at mid-term and at
  the end of the project) were performed under this activity. With the final impact
  evaluation survey that has been performed at the end of the Rural Roads
  Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, three impact evaluation surveys covering
  about 12 years of implementation have been done, allowing capturing long-term
  impacts of rural roads investments on rural welfare.

· Transport, rural infrastructure and rural development: Within this activity,
  Provias Descentralizado coordinated closely with other agencies in charge of
  rural infrastructure and rural development. Provias Descentralizado has been an
  active member of the National Commission of Rural Development and has led an
  initiative to strengthen coordination with agencies in charge of rural
  infrastructure. This initiative was formalized through the signing of a
  Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between these various agencies and will
  be furthered through a "rural infrastructure pilot" to be implemented within the
  follow-on operation (Decentralized Rural Transport).

· Creation of Provias Descentralizado: Provias Descentralizado was created in
  August 2006 by Supreme Decree No. 029-2006-MTC, from the merging of
  Provias Rural and Provias Departamental. This institutional evolution is a
  positive step to strengthen the decentralization process by focusing the role of the
  national government on regulatory responsibilities and assistance to sub-national
  governments. The merger is also expected to facilitate the dissemination of best
  practices from rural to regional roads.




                                       56

6.2 Improving Planning and Management of Rural Roads

This activity aimed at financing a technical assistance package to strengthen the capacity
of local stakeholders to efficiently plan and manage their rural road assets.

In particular, a methodology for participatory road planning was developed and
improved. Over the project's life time, 71 Participatory Provincial Road Plans were
carried out by individual consultants who worked in partnership with the provincial local
coordination council. These councils are headed by the provincial mayor and include
district mayors and representatives of different communities, associations, enterprises or
professions. The goal of the participatory plan was to strengthen the road planning
capacity of local authorities in a way that favored the decentralization process by
prioritizing all road investments which were to be made in the province in line with the
vision that the provincial council had for developing the province.

The process to prepare this plan has been divided in seven steps. The first two steps were
preparatory activities (such as the organization of workshops with municipalities or
associations, or the preparation of a work program) and the collection of information. The
third step was a provincial diagnostic which analyzed different aspects of the initial
situation of the province such as its demography, its economy, its social aspects or its
road environment. The fourth step was the prioritization of investments through a matrix
which constituted the first main output of the plan. This matrix ranked the different rural
roads (there is another matrix for NMT) through a process which took into account
several criteria divided in five groups: spatial, economical, social, technical and natural
resources. Each criterion had a given weigh approved in advance by the local council so
as to avoid any further protest. The fifth step was the planning of objectives and the
carrying out of a strategy for road network management. The sixth step was the
establishment of the provincial investment plan for road infrastructure which ranked all
investments by road, type of road (rural or NMT) and type of investment (rehabilitation,
periodic or routine maintenance). This investment plan constituted the second main
output of the participatory provincial road plan: this ranking set the order of all
investments which were to be made in the province. Moreover, suggestions for financing
the proposed investments had to be included in the plan. The last and seventh step was
the monitoring and evaluation of the participatory plan, with a proposed list of
monitoring and evaluation indicators.

The preparation of these plans also included the constitution of road inventories. These
inventories were prepared based on registered roads assessed through field surveys. In
two provinces, Provias Descentralizado piloted the preparation of a more comprehensive
inventory with the use of Geographic Information System (GIS) technologies (see Box
5). These technologies, though being more costly than the traditional road surveys,
proved to bring an added value in terms of updating the knowledge of the actual network.
These benefits justified the scaling up of this approach in the follow-on project
(Decentralized Rural Transport Project).




                                             57

                   Box 5: Outputs from the GIS-Based Road Inventory Pilot

When preparing Participatory Provincial Road Plans, many consultants noticed that most of rural
roads were not registered at the national or local level. It is estimated that the total length of the
Peruvian rural road network could reach 100,000 km, about twice as much as the registered
network of 47,000 km. A huge number of roads had in fact been built by various entities
(communities, municipalities, firms...) which were not required to report these new constructions
while no road census has been conducted for years.

In order to tackle this problem of roads registration and to provide provinces with a powerful
planning tool, as well as to give a useful regulation tool to the MTC, Provias Descentralizado
decided to implement a Geographic Information Systems (GIS) pilot in two Peruvian provinces:
Yauyos and Huaral. This technology has been chosen because it had been proved to be the
cheapest and most rapid one to implement. Once equipment has been bought (US$ 8,000, mostly
for GPS system), such a study costs 20,000 soles and takes one month and a half to be conducted
(including two weeks on the field). Moreover, the methodology retained is divided in six
successive steps: 1) meeting with local authorities and coordinating with them; 2) analysis of the
rural road network based on the local contributions gathered in step 1; 3) constitution and
preparation of the team; 4) field visits (conducted by consultants) where each road is ridden with
GPS and information is collected and computed; 5) results evaluation; 6) disclosure of
information. The final product is an interactive map (accessible through special mapping
software). For each road, the following details are available: national ID number (if registered,
this number is provided by the MTC), condition, surfacing type, length, width and the type of
land the road is crossing. In addition, pictures and characteristics of bridges, as well as distances
between villages are also available. Other features can be added, if needed. However, NMT are
not registered by this system, because of their large number and their changing nature.

Source: Provias Descentralizado

6.2     Developing Community-Based Micro-Enterprises for Road Maintenance

This activity relates to the technical assistance provided to establish and strengthen
micro-enterprises performing routine road maintenance on rehabilitated roads (see also
Component 2).

An important aspect of this technical assistance has been the recruiting of "road
monitors" (monitores viales). These recently-graduated young engineers, economists or
social scientists were contracted by Provias Descentralizado for a period of one year.
Each of them has been working with 4 or 5 micro-enterprises, with the objective of: (i)
monitoring road conditions and maintenance activities; (ii) providing technical assistance
and coaching to micro-enterprises (e.g. technical aspects of maintenance, safeguards
aspects, entrepreneurial capacity); and (iii) as needed, bringing targeted social help (e.g.
teaching how to read) to communities. At closing, 66 monitors with a civil engineering
background and 11 monitors with a social background were active.




                                                 58

6.3 Strengthening Rural Communities and Households' Capacity to Create and Engage
in Social and Economic Development Opportunities

This activity consisted in the design and establishment of a specific instrument, named
"Local Development Window" (LDW) in selected poor districts, with the objective of
stimulating the emergence of productive activities that could spur with the improvement
of road conditions.

Over the project's life time, the LDW has intervened in 85 districts in 12 provinces
chosen among the poorest in Peru. Operated by CARITAS Peru, the LDW identified the
best productive initiative and reduced transaction costs for potential sponsors. Selected
initiatives were presented during "project fairs" (ferias). Between October 2001 and
September 2006, the LDW identified 850 initiatives at pre-feasibility stage, of which 167
reached feasibility stage and 72 found a sponsor. Eight regional fairs and one national
one were organized, allowing to leverage SDR 7.2 million of financing from various
sponsors. Remarkable initiatives that were supported include for example the
construction of a fish farm in the district of Sauce (San Martin region) or the cultivation
of a traditional root called Yacon in the district of Orcotuna (Junin region). In both cases,
these initiatives became viable because the improvement of transport conditions made
access to local markets easier and more reliable. In addition to promoting the spurring of
productive activities, the LDW has worked with municipalities to help them prepare a
district development plan that are describing a strategy for the development of their
territories. These plans were then used by municipalities to rationalize their public
expenditures and to comply with the accreditation requirements put in place by the
National Decentralization Council (CND in Spanish). More recently, the LDW started to
move its planning methodology at the regional level, with the preparation, to the date, of
three provincial development plans. Thus, the LDW proved both to be a relevant
instrument to promote rural growth and to strengthen at the same time community
participation and municipalities' institutional capacity. An illustrative sample of projects
supported by the LDW is presented on the Internet (http://www.proviasrural.gob.pe/).




                                              59

                    Annex 3.       Economic and Financial Analysis

The ex-ante economic evaluation performed a Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) of 36 sample
sub-projects completed under the first phase of the program using the producer's surplus
approach that relates the rehabilitation and maintenance costs of a sub-project with
benefits in terms in increases in net agricultural and livestock production (net of local
consumption and production costs). The ex-post economic evaluation: (i) reviewed the
CBA and the Cost Effectiveness Analysis (CEA) presented on a sample of 423 feasibility
studies prepared during the project implementation, and (ii) performed representative ex-
post CBA and CEA evaluations considering actual road works costs and results of the
latest impact evaluation study prepared during the implementation of the project.

Ex-ante Economic Evaluation

The economic evaluation framework defined for the project at appraisal considers the
stage of development of the sub-project area of influence. Sub-project in a first stage of
development, in areas with a high percentage of poverty, serving a social function and
typically with very low traffic (less than 15 AADT) or only non-motorized traffic
(tracks), are analyzed on the basis of social considerations (cost effectiveness approach)
identifying the total project costs, the total beneficiary population in the direct and
indirect are of influence of the sub-project, and the cost per beneficiary indicator. The
maximum project cost was set to US$ 250,000 and the maximum cost per beneficiary
indicator was set to US$ 100 per beneficiary. These thresholds were based on the
experience of the sub-projects undertaken in the first phase of the program. The direct are
of influence includes communities around 500 meters to both sides of the road right-of-
way, without considering the most populous city at either end of the road. Indirect area
of influence includes communities around a10 km band along the road. When these
thresholds were not met, a sub-project had then to be analyzed following any of the other
approaches, as listed below.

Sub-projects with more advanced stage of development, typically with high long distance
traffic (higher than 30 AADT) and serving an economic function, are evaluated based on
benefits to road user costs compared to the rehabilitation and maintenance costs
following the application of the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED). This
methodology is applied to segments of primary and secondary network that have been
identified as critical to allow connection with or among networks of rural roads. The
RED model performs the economic evaluation of road investment options using the
consumer's surplus approach.

Sub-project in intermediate stage of development, typically with traffic between 15 and
30 AADT and serving agricultural and livestock production, are evaluated using the
producer's surplus approach. This methodology entails the definition of certain
assumptions about future increases in agricultural and livestock production and
productivity as a consequence of the rehabilitation of the roads.




                                            60

The ex-ante economic evaluation of the rehabilitation of rural roads was done evaluating,
with the producer's surplus approach, 36 sample sub-projects completed under the first
phase of the program, totaling 1,563 km and US$ 20.34 million of investment costs
(representing 20% of the investments and the number of kilometers rehabilitated of this
component). The results of the ex-ante analysis yields an economic rate of return (ERR)
of 25% and a net present value (NPV) of US$ 20.27 million at 10% discount rate, which
is equivalent to US$ 12.75 million at 14% discount rate, which is the prevailing discount
rate in Peru during the project implementation period. The ex-ante evaluation considered
the following assumptions:

        (a) an increase of 7.5% in the number of livestock (to take place in year 3), though
        maintaining the same level of net benefits per unit of livestock;
        (b) an increase of 5.0% (to take place in year 3) in the overall agricultural area for
        key agricultural products in the area of influence of the sub-projects;
        (c) a decrease of 5.0% in the costs of production for either agricultural or
        livestock-related products (to take place in year 3);
        (d) no adjustments were made to the agricultural yields or to farm prices;
        (e) average rehabilitation cost of US$ 13,017 per km;
        (f) average routine maintenance cost of US$ 1,200 per km per year;
        (g) sample network length of 1,563 km for a total investment of US$ 20.34
        million; and
        (h) discount rate of 10% that was the prevailing discount rate in Peru at appraisal.

At appraisal, the cost effectiveness of the improvement of non-motorized rural transport
(tracks) was not quantified in numerical terms.

Feasibility Reports Economic Evaluation

The Regional Governments prepared Participatory Regional Plans to identify the sub-
projects investments to could be funded under the project, utilizing a multi-criteria index
to rank the road sections and define priorities. Consultants prepared project level
feasibility studies for each identified sub-project to quantify the rehabilitation needs of
the project road and evaluate its economic or social justification. Non-motorized tracks
and rural roads with traffic less than 15 AADT were subject to CEA and rural roads with
more than 15 AADT were subject to CBA using the producer's surplus approach. A
sample of 124 rural roads feasibility studies were reviewed totaling 2,128 km (42% of the
total program of 5,018 km), of which 47 feasibility studies (984 km) included CBA and
77 feasibility studies (1,144 km) included CEA. The overall average rehabilitation unit
cost is US$ 15,280 per km and the overall average total population served is 497 persons
per km.

Cost Benefit Analysis

For the 47 roads subject to a CBA: (i) the average rehabilitation costs is US$ 16,657 per
km; (ii) the total rehabilitation cost is US$ 13.78 million; (iii) the total NPV is US$ 6.75
million, at 14% discount rate; (iv) the ERR is 23.6%; and (v) the average total population



                                             61

served is 337 persons per km, of which 260 persons are direct beneficiaries (communities
around 500 meters to both sides of the road right-of-way). Figure 2 presents a histogram
of the ERR for the rural roads projects.

               Figure 2: Economic rate of returns of rural roads projects

                                                              Rural Roads Projects

                                                  20

                        seidutSytiilib            18

                                                  16

                                                  14

                                                  12

                                      easF        10

                                          of       8

                                                   6

                                                   4
                                            Number
                                                   2

                                                   0
                                                     0  5  10 15    20    25     30    35 40  45   50

                                                              Economic Rate of Return (%)



The CBA evaluations were done adopting the producer's surplus approach by comparing
the project costs and economic benefits derived from increase in agricultural and
livestock net production value as a result of productivity increase linked to the road
improvement. The feasibility studies considered different assumptions regarding the (i)
increase in the number of livestock and overall agricultural area for key agricultural
products after the project; (ii) decrease in the costs of production for either agricultural or
livestock-related products after the project; (iii) and the growth rate of the agricultural
area and number of livestock with and without the project. A detailed review of 12
feasibility studies shows that in year 3 on average the total agricultural and livestock
production benefits (profits), net of production costs, are 15% higher with the project
compared with the without project scenario, which is broadly in line with the ex-ante
economic evaluation assumptions. The table below presents a sample of the agricultural
and livestock characteristics on the area of influence of the project roads.

                 Table 4: Sample agricultural and livestock characteristics

                                                                              Production     Farm
                        Agricultural                             Yield            Cost       Price
                        Product                                 (ton/ha)       (US$/ha)     (US$/ton)
                        Wheat                                     1.30            500         300
                        Amylaceous Maize                          1.60            600         320
                        Beans                                     1.00            750         360
                        Rice                                      1.50            500         220
                        Yellow Maize                              1.60            450         220
                        Banana                                    2.00            300         140
                                                                              Production     Farm
                                                                 Yield            Cost       Price
                        Livestock                              (kg/head)      (US$/head)   (US$/head)
                        Bovine                                    180              17         125
                        Goat                                       35              8          20
                        Pig                                        45              5          40
                        Ovine                                      20              3          10


Cost Effectiveness Analysis




                                                                     62

For the 77 rural roads subject to a CEA: (i) the average rehabilitation cost is US$ 14,439
per km; (ii) the total rehabilitation cost is US$ 17.62 million; (iii) the average cost per
beneficiary indicator is US$ 46 per person; and (iv) the average total population served is
594 persons per km, of which 390 persons are direct beneficiaries. The CEA cost per
beneficiary indicator was computed dividing the present value of the road agency costs
over a 10 year evaluation period by the total population served (direct plus indirect
beneficiaries). The road agency costs comprise the investment costs, routine and periodic
maintenance costs, supervision costs, and environmental mitigation costs. The average
routine maintenance costs is US$ 850 per km per year; the average periodic maintenance
cost is US$ 2,900 per km executed every 3 years; the average supervision cost is US$
1.230 per km; and the average environmental mitigation cost is US$ 380 per km. Figure 3
presents a histogram of the cost per beneficiary indicator for the rural roads projects.

                Figure 3: Cost per beneficiary for rural roads projects
                                                                                          Rural Roads Projects

                                                                         10

                         sie                                              9

                                                                          8
                            Studytiilib                                   7

                                                                          6

                                       aseF                               5

                                                                          4
                                           of
                                             er                           3

                                                                          2
                                               Numb                       1

                                                                          0

                                                                           0  10  20    30     40      50     60     70     80  90 100
                                                                                    Cost per Beneficiary Indicator (US$/person)



A sample of 299 non-motorized tracks improvements feasibility studies were reviewed
totaling 2,636 km (73% of the total program of 3,607 km), on which CEA was
performed. For these tracks: (i) the average improvement costs is US$ 2,500 per km; (ii)
the total improvement cost is US$ 6.6 million; (iii) the average cost per beneficiary
indicator is US$ 27 per person; and (iv) the average total population served is 295
persons per km of which all are direct beneficiaries. Figure 4 presents a histogram of the
cost per beneficiary indicator for the non-motorized tracks.

                    Figure 4: Cost per beneficiary for NMT tracks.
                                                                                             Tracks Projects

                                                                         40

                                                   sie                   35


                                                      Studytiilib        30

                                                                         25

                                                                 aseF 20
                                                                 of      15
                                                                   er    10

                                                                     Numb 5

                                                                          0

                                                                           0  10  20    30     40      50     60     70     80  90 100
                                                                                    Cost per Beneficiary Indicator (US$/person)




                                                                                                  63

Ex-post Economic Evaluation

Cost Benefit Analysis

The ex-post economic evaluation was done considering actual road works unit costs and
results of the latest impact evaluation study prepared during the implementation of the
project. First, a producer's surplus model was developed designed to replicate the results
of the ex-ante economic evaluation, and then the actual road work costs and the updated
assumptions of the project benefits were entered into the model to produce the ex-post
evaluation results. The producer's surplus model was developed taking into account
information collected from the feasibility studies related to representative agricultural and
livestock characteristics in the area of influence of the project roads.

To determine the actual rehabilitation of rural roads unit costs and to compare them with
the feasibility estimates and the contract costs, a sample of 35 rural roads projects subject
to CBA were reviewed. The average unit costs estimated on the feasibility studies for the
rehabilitation works is US$ 16,657 per km and the average contract costs and actual costs
is about US$ 12,813 per km. Contract costs are 23% lower than estimated costs and
actual costs are about the same as contract costs. The review of 58 feasibility studies
subject to CEA shows that the unit costs estimated on the feasibility studies for the
rehabilitation works is US$ 8,833 per km and the average contract costs and actual costs
is US$ 12,090 per km. Contract costs are 36% higher than estimated costs and actual
costs are about the same as contract costs. Figure 5 presents a histogram of the ratio
between the actual unit costs divided by the estimated costs for the 93 projects.

              Figure 5: Actual vs. estimated costs for rural roads projects
                                                                           Rural Roads Projects

                                                       18
                         ts
                           ec                          16

                             Proj                      14
                                 n
                                  tio                  12
                                     tail              10
                                         abi            8
                                            Reh
                                               of       6

                                                 er     4

                                                        2
                                                   Numb
                                                        0

                                                        0.00 0.40 0.80 1.20   1.60   2.00   2.40   2.80 3.20 3.60 4.00
                                                                          Actual Cost per Estimated Cost



The review of 277 improvement of non-motorized tracks projects shows that the average
unit costs estimated on the feasibility studies for the improvement of tracks is US$ 2,500
per km, the average contract costs is US$ 2,630 per km, and the average actual costs is
US$ 1,900 per km. Contract costs are 5% higher than estimated costs and actual costs are
38% lower than contract costs. The review of 231 periodic maintenance contracts shows
that the average contract costs is US$ 13,963 per km and the average actual costs is US$
14,505 per km. Actual costs are 4% higher than contract costs. A review of 2,180 routine
maintenance contracts covering 49,640 km of routine maintenance works over 6 years
shows that the average contract costs is US$ 502 per km-year and the average actual


                                                                                  64

costs is US$ 647 per km-year. Actual costs are 29% higher than contract costs, due
mainly because the duration of the contracts has been expanded.

The ex-post economic evaluation considered the results of the 2006 impact evaluation
study that evaluated the impact on roads rehabilitated or improved between 2004 and
2006. The study shows a big impact of the project on the network condition (table
below). Travel times on rural roads reduced by 30% and travel times on non-motorized
tracks reduced by 58%. The number of months with road closures on rural roads reduced
by 11%. The average travel speed before road works is 15.2 km per hour on rural roads
and 5.5 km per hour on non-motorized tracks.

                                 Table 5: Road condition impact

                                         Travel Times
                                           (minutes)            Months With Roads Closures (#)
                                     Rural Roads    Tracks              Rural Roads
               Before Road Works        102          157                    1.9
               After Road Works          72           66                    1.7
               Difference                -31          -91                   -0.2
               Percent (%)              -30%        -58%                   -11%


The impact study shows that the total motorized traffic on rural roads has increased
substantially with the project investments. The weekly total motorized traffic on rural
roads increased by 87% (table below).

                                Table 6: Motorized traffic impact

                                              Cars      Micro Bus      Bus    Truck    Total
                  Before Road Works           29.0         14.8        1.6     9.9     55.3
                  After Road Works            59.7         23.8        3.5     16.4    103.4
                  Difference                   31            9         2        7       48
                  Percent (%)                106%          61%       119%      66%     87%


The study shows an impact of the project on the agricultural area and the number of
livestock but a negligible impact on the production costs. The study shows that the
cultivated surface at area of influence of rural road projects increased by 22%, at 10%
significance level; and the number of livestock increased by 7% and the production cost
increased by 1%, both without a high statistical significance (table 7).

                              Table 7: Producer's surplus impact

                                           Producer's Surplus Impact
                                             Agricultural    Number       Production
                                                Area        Livestock       Costs
                                              (Hectares)       (#)     ($/Hectare/year)
                        Before Road Works        0.9           43.0         905.2
                        After Road Works         1.1           46.1         918.6
                        Difference               0.2           3.1          13.4
                        Percent (%)             22%            7%            1%


The ex-post economic evaluation was done considering the following assumptions:
       (a) no adjustments were made in the number of livestock;
       (b) an increase of 22% (to take place in year 2) in the overall agricultural area for
       key agricultural products in the area of influence of the sub-projects;



                                                      65

       (c) no adjustments were made to the costs of production for either agricultural or
       livestock-related products;
       (d) no adjustments were made to the agricultural yields or to farm prices;
       (e) average rehabilitation cost of US$ 12,813 per km;
       (f) average routine maintenance cost of US$ 647 per km per year;
       (g) program network length of 5,018 km for a total investment of US$ 64.29
       million; and
       (h) discount rate of 14% that was the prevailing discount rate in Peru during
       project implementation.

The results of the ex-post analysis yield an economic rate of return (ERR) of 31% and a
net present value (NPV) of US$ 64.05 million, at 14% discount rate. Table 8 summarizes
the economic evaluation results.

                             Table 8: Economic evaluation results

                                                     Ex-ante Feasibility Studies  Ex-post
               Length (km)                            1,563         984           5,018
               Investment (M US$)                     20.34       16.39           64.29
               Investment / km (US$/km)               13,017      16,657          12,813
               ERR (%)                                25%          24%             31%
               NPV at 14% Discount Rate (M US$)       12.75        6.75           64.05
               NPV at 14% Discount Rate / Investment  0.63         0.41            1.00


Considering that the impact evaluation has found a 7% increase in the number of
livestock without high statistical significance, a sensitivity case was performed adding the
benefits of the livestock increase to the benefits of the increase in agricultural area (22%).
The sensitivity case yields an ERR of 35% and a NPV of US$ 81.48 million. Considering
the same ex-ante producer's surplus benefits but adopting the actual investment and
maintenance costs yields an ERR of 27% and a NPV of US$ 48.48 million.

The ex-post economic evaluation shows that the rehabilitation of rural roads component
was well justified considering the actual investment costs and the updated assumptions on
the producer's benefits. The ex-post net benefits are higher than the benefits evaluated at
appraisal due to the lower actual road works costs and the higher than expected impact of
the project on the area of agricultural production.

Cost Effectiveness Analysis

The CEA of rural roads presented at the feasibility studies yields an average cost per
beneficiary indicator of US$ 46 per person. The ex-post analysis considering the contract
costs yields an average cost per beneficiary indicator of US$ 60 per person and
considering the actual costs yields US$ 62 per person. The CEA of non-motorized tracks
presented at the feasibility studies yields an average cost per beneficiary indicator of US$
27 per person. The ex-post analysis considering the contract costs yields an average cost
per beneficiary indicator of US$ 29 per person and considering the actual costs yields
US$ 25 per person. The cost effectiveness of the project was satisfactory with cost per
beneficiary averages well below the limit of US$ 100 per person defined at appraisal.




                                                    66

  Annex 4.         Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (a) Task Team members

          Names                          Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Jose-Luis Irigoyen       Lead Highway Engineer               LCSFT Task Team Leader ­
                                                                   World Bank
Rodolfo Huici            Principal Economist                 IADB  Task Team Leader -
                                                                   IADB
Aurelio Menendez         Sr. Transport Economist             LCSFT Transport Economist
Elizabeth Dasso          Sr. Social Development Specialist   LCSSO NGO Coordinator ­ Social
                                                                   Specialist
Francisco Wulff          Operations Specialist
David Varela             Sr. Counsel                         LEGLA Legal Counsel
Paul Sisk                Sr. FM Specialist                   LCSFM Financial Management
                                                                   Specialist
Colin Gannon             Transport Economist                       Transport Economist
Carlos Emanuel           Procurement Specialist              LCSPR Procurement Specialist
Gladys Sakata            Program Assistant                   LCSFT Program Assistant
Vera Vicentini           Environmental Specialist            IADB  Environmental Specialist
Jacob Greenstein         Highway Engineer                    IADB  Highway Engineer
Alfonso Tique            Highway Engineer                    IADB  Highway Engineer
Supervision/ICR
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro Sr. Procurement Spec.               LCSPT Procurement Specialist
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao Highway engineer                     TUDTR Transport economist
Julie Babinard           Economist                           TUDTR Economist
Luz Caballero            Consultant                          LCSTR Gender specialist
Maria Elizabeth Dasso    Sr. Social Development & Civil      LCSSO Social Scientist
Nicolas Drossos          Consultant                          LCSFM FM Specialist
Melanie Glass            Junior Professional Associate       LCSTR Social Scientist

Rodolfo Huici            Principal Economist                 IADB  Task Team Leader -
                                                                   IADB
Patricia Mc Kenzie       Sr. Financial Management Specialist OPCFM FM Specialist
Aurelio Menendez         Lead Transport Economist            LCSFT Task Team Leader ­
                                                                   World Bank (2002-2004)
Isabella Micali Drossos  Sr. Counsel                         LEGLA Legal Counsel
Juan Manuel Leaño        Senior Road Engineer                IADB  Road Engineer
Xiomara A. Morel         Senior Finance Officer              LOAG1 Disbursement Officer
Miroslava Nevo           Senior Road Engineer                IADB  Road Engineer

Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge Senior Infrastructure Economist     LCSTR Task Team Leader ­
                                                                   World Bank (2004-2007)
Juan D. Quintero         Sr. Environmental Engr.             EASRE Environmental Specialist
Luis M. Schwarz          Sr. Financial Management Specialist LCSFM FM Specialist
Nicolas Serrie           Junior Professional Associate       LCSTR Financial Specialist
Vera Vicentini           Senior Environmental Specialist     IADB  Environmental Specialist
Evelyn Villatoro         Sr. Procurement Spec.               LCSPT Procurement Specialist
Marco Antonio Zambrano Consultant                            LCSTR Environmental Specialist
Alonso Zarzar Casis      Sr. Social Scientist                LCSSO Social Scientist



                                                67

(b) Staff Time and Cost



                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)


Lending
  FY99                                                               40.57
  FY00                                     17                       133.39
  FY01                                     25                        98.06
  FY02                                                                1.50
  FY03                                                                0.00
  FY04                                                                0.00
  FY05                                                                0.00
  FY06                                                                0.00
  FY07                                                                0.00

                            Total:         42                       273.52
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                0.00
  FY00                                                                0.00
  FY01                                                                0.00
  FY02                                     16                        76.99
  FY03                                     10                        42.27
  FY04                                     17                        83.09
  FY05                                     26                        78.65
  FY06                                     33                        88.12
  FY07                                       7                       19.34

                            Total:        109                       388.46




                                        68

                            Annex 5.         Beneficiary Survey Results


Three impact evaluations were performed in 2000, 2004 and 2006. These evaluations
were conducted by two experienced Peruvian think tanks (Instituto Cuanto for the first
two evaluations and GRADE for the last one).

Literature review of the impacts of rural roads programs

There is growing evidence in the literature of how road improvement can generate
opportunities to improve economic growth and reduce poverty (Khandker, 2006).
Rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads has a higher impact on the living
conditions of the rural poor than the construction of new infrastructure. The decrease of
transport costs improves labor productivity and generates employment opportunities in
the agriculture and non-agriculture sectors, which in turns leads to increased income and
higher expenditures in social services. A summary of the literature with regards to the
various possible effects is indicated below:

Effects of transport conditions. Road improvement programs have been found to have a
direct impact on transport conditions and costs. Improved roads save tires, reduce vehicle
maintenance and make travels faster (Lucas, Davis and Rikard, 1996). In Peru, these
cumulated costs were found to represent up to 60 percent of passengers' and goods' total
travel costs (Ordinola, 1990). In addition, lesser accidents have been reported on
improved roads. In rural areas, the most important benefit comes from ensuring all-
weather access, since in the absence of a sound road rehabilitation and maintenance
program, roads become impassable in the rainy season. Ensuring all-weather access is
generally a major objective of rural roads programs (e.g. Levy, 2004 for the Moroccan
experience). The ultimate effect on the pricing of transport services depends on the
market structure of transport operators. Decreased operating costs may increase
competition among transport services providers. However, in certain cases, increased
demand for transport services may reduce the effect of increased competition on pricing.

Effects on access to public services. Improved roads lead to reduced travel time to get to
markets and public services (education, health, justice and security). In Morocco, school
attendance is higher in areas where transport conditions have been improved, particularly
for girls (Levy, 2004). This gender benefit can be explained by the fact that girls and their
parents are more sensitive to increased security associated with better transport
conditions. In Ghana, better access to health services was found to be one of the greatest
benefits of rural roads programs (Porter, 2002). Similar evidence was found in the case of
Malaysia (Windle and Cramb, 1996) and other Asian countries (Hettige, 2006). In
addition to the positive effect on access and attendance, improved transport conditions
lead to better human resources and, ultimately, better quality of public services: in
Morocco, it was found easier to attract and maintain qualified teachers and doctors14 in


14Absenteeism of teachers and doctors is a major problem in rural areas, particularly in Peru where these
professionals are spending their weekends in more urbanized areas or have to travel to cities to receive their
payments (Alcazar, et al., 2003).


                                                  69

the areas targeted by a rural roads program, as well as by other government initiatives to
increase the availability of social services in rural areas (Levy, 2004). Ultimately,
increased access and higher quality of social services should lead to better education (e.g.
illiteracy rates) and health (e.g. diseases' occurrence, malnutrition rates) indicators.
However, these ultimate impacts depend on a number of factors (other than just improved
roads) and there does not seem to exist significant evidence of such ultimate impact of
rural roads programs in the literature. Finally, improved roads could mean better access
and quality for other public services (e.g. police, justice) although there does not seem to
exist empirical evidence for that. Neither there seem to exist empirical evidence on
improved access to privately-operated services like television, post and telephone
services.

Effects on productive activities. Improved roads also have an effect on the productive
activities of rural households, particularly those that relate to agriculture. In particular,
improved access impact relative prices and trading conditions. Poor access generally
increases the bargaining power of intermediaries who buy products or sell inputs to small
producers. When roads are improved, small producers become closer to local markets and
trading centers, resulting in reduced information asymmetry on prices15 and increased
bargaining power. Ultimately, these effects have been found to increase the income of
rural producers (Liu, 2000 and Escobal, 2000). These effects also tend to favor
productive specialization and clustering, easing the development of commercial
agriculture as a substitute to low productivity, subsistence agriculture (Devres Inc., 1980;
Gannon and Liu, 1997). The effect of improved roads on reduced travel times and
increased travel frequency, contributes to reduced post-harvest losses for fragile
agricultural products with greater profitability and easier access to processing plants.
Increased profitability combined with improved access to credit also facilitates the use of
more modern technologies, with an ultimate benefit in terms of productivity (Biswanger,
Khandker and Rosenzweig, 1993). However, the empirical evidence of the effects of
rural roads program on agricultural productivity is not as strong when more robust
evaluation methodologies are being used (ADB, 2001). According to these studies, rural
roads programs are in fact most successful when they are complemented by other
initiatives to increase agricultural productivity. Finally, these positive effects on small
producers have been found greater for the less poor segments of the rural population
(Devres Inc., 1980).

Effects on employment. Various studies discussed how rural roads improvement directly
and indirectly affects employment opportunities for rural communities (Jacoby, 2000;
Smith and al., 2001; Quizón and Sparrow, 2001; de Janvry and Sadoulet, 2001). The
increased productivity of agricultural and non-agricultural activities causes both higher
wages and increased employment. Road rehabilitation and maintenance works also
generate employment. Easier transport conditions favors migration because of improved
access to information regarding employment opportunities in neighbor areas. In Peru, the
rural roads program was found to generate employment, particularly in the non-


15 Information asymmetry results in market segmentation for agricultural products. Because of this
segmentation and lack of information, small producers generally have to bear the most part when prices are
falling and do not benefit as much when they are rising.


                                                    70

agricultural sectors and for the most educated producers (Escobal and Ponce, 2002).
Similar results were found in Ghana (Hine and Riverson, 1982). In Nepal, wages were
found slightly higher when travel times to markets are decreased (Jacoby, 2000).

Effects on income. The positive effects on productive activities should lead to greater
income, although little empirical evidence can be found in the literature. In cases when
migration is promoted, remittances should add to the non-agricultural income for poor
households for which a member of the family traveled to an area with greater
employment opportunities. The lack of observable evidence is generally interpreted by
the fact that, in order to be significant, rural roads program need to be complemented by
other initiatives. However, in Bangladesh, an increase of 33 percent on total income was
reported, with a greater effect on agricultural income for the less poor producers and a
greater effect on non-agriculture income for the poorest producers (Ahmed and Hossain,
1990). Although the effect of rural roads to reduce inequalities is expected to be positive
due to the higher poverty rates in rural areas, it is possible that benefits are less
significant on the poorest segments on the population.

Effects of expenditures, poverty and living standards. In order for households to increase
expenditures that could improve their living conditions, they must perceive additional
income as permanent. Otherwise, their strategy is generally to increase savings in one
way or another (Chen and Ravallion, 2003). In Peru, the initial benefits (prior to 2000) of
the rural roads program principally resulted in an increase of cattle, which was interpreted
as a saving strategy (Escobal and Ponce, 2002).

Effects on migration. Rural roads' improvement modifies the migration behaviors of rural
households (Hettige, 2006). The effect on permanent migration is ambiguous: on the one
end, improved transport conditions facilitate exploring other areas and, therefore, provide
incentives for temporal or permanent migration. On the other end, improved transport
conditions improve rural welfare and rural-urban linkages, which could reduce the
incentives for permanent migration. Finally, improved access facilitate the flow of
information between migrated and their relatives and families, which could result in the
migration of those. There are little studies in the literature about the effect of rural roads
programs on migration. Improvement of transport conditions between producing areas
and markets has been found to have a limited impact on migration from rural to urban
areas (Devres Inc., 1980).

Effects on gender. Few rural roads programs have included the gender dimension in their
strategy. The Peru rural roads program gave the opportunity to poor rural women to
express their transport needs in participatory workshops, resulting in the inclusion of
NMT tracks in the program (Fort and Menendez, 2002).Based on interviews with
beneficiaries, Peruvian rural women seem to have particularly benefited from the
program, with greater access to markets, less time lost to get food and fuel and greater
participation in local politics. In addition, the effect of rural roads program on improved
access to health and education services have been found to be greater in the case of
women. Women generally are the ones who accompany children to school and old people
to health centers.



                                               71

Effects on institutions/organizations. Rural roads' improvement facilitates access to
public services but also help the development/expansion of these services. For example, it
can be expected that it will be easier to build a school in an area where transport
conditions have been improved. Similarly, bringing access should facilitate the
development of private activities (banks, providers of equipment, etc.). Another direct
effect is the development of road rehabilitation and maintenance enterprises.

Effects on environment. One possible negative effect of rural roads' programs is that they
may favor a more intensive exploitation of natural resources. Intensive agriculture has
been found to increase soil degradation and erosion through the overuse of fertilizers and
pesticides (Devres Inc., 1980). If productive activities are handled in an unsustainable
manner, improved rural transport conditions may also affect the natural equilibrium of
targeted areas. For example, bringing access to a forest zone may increase deforestation
(Hammer and al., 2000).

Effects on participation. The effect of rural roads programs on community participation
and social capital involve complex mechanisms for which empirical evidence is hard to
establish (ADB, 2001). One first expected effect is that improved access brings remote
households and individuals closer to the rest of society, allowing them to voice their
needs and participate more easily in the decision-making process for public policies.
However, these benefits could be diminished by some negative effects indirectly
associated with rural roads' programs. For example, the fact that the poorest among poor
rural communities may not benefit as much as the less poor segments of the population
may increase inequities and ultimately increase the income-gap within rural communities.
Also, permanent migration to more urbanized areas may reduce the capital social in the
targeted communities. Finally, communities may be negatively affected by the
introduction of, or greater exposure to, new values brought from the outside, thanks to the
improvement of access (Devres Inc., 1980). It is important to note that these possible
effects are speculated but that none has been formally reported in the literature.

Effects on safety and security. The effect of improved rural transport on security is also
complex and ambiguous and has not been empirically validated. While benefits in terms
of road safety may be one of the most obvious positive consequences, improved access
could also be thought to bring alcoholism and drug addiction to remote rural
communities.

Evaluation Methodology

Impact evaluation is based on the "double-difference" methodology (see Box 6). For each
road segment improved under the program, a "control road segment" sharing similar
characteristics except the fact that it was not intervened, was selected.            16



16A shortlist of possible "control road segments" was first established, based on the following three
conditions: (i) be a type of road similar to the intervened road; (ii) not being scheduled for rehabilitation;
and (iii) being independent from the intervened road so that no "spillover benefits" can occur. The final


                                                      72

In the case of the 2006 evaluation, selected road segments included rural roads but also
NMT tracks. Populations living nearby the improved and control road segments were
then surveyed. Survey questionnaire tried to capture households' socio-economic
characteristics, human capital and productive activities, as well as availability of social
and economic infrastructure, access to public and private services and presence of key
State programs. 108 indicators, classified in 15 categories,                  17  were included in the
questionnaire.

                            Box 6: Double-Difference Impact Evaluation

The double difference methodology is a common quasi-experimental technique used to assess the
impacts of the intervention of a program. It consists in comparing infrastructure (roads in this
case) with and without the intervention of a program, both before and after the end of the project.
The difference between the differences (before and after) is then the only difference attributable
to the project, and therefore is a good measurement of the impact of the project. This
methodology is a second-best but more practical option to assess the outcomes of a project, since
the ideal way is to calculate a project's impact is an experimental, randomized design in which
interventions are applied to random groups, and withheld from the rest (or the control group).
Any difference in the post-program treatment and control groups is then attributable to the project
intervention. Since the project target areas have already been selected ex-ante on the basis of their
potential, an experimental design would be biased and therefore not possible.

The use of the double difference methodology implies to conduct a baseline study on an ex-ante
basis, before conducting the final impact evaluation study ex-post. The quality of the
questionnaire is essential. Similarly, the control group has to be chosen carefully as it must not be
linked to any aspects of the project and at the same time must share the same characteristics than
the treatment group. The methodology relies on the assumption that all time-variant factors that
differentiate the treatment and control and controlled for.


The 2006 evaluation distinguished between roads that were improved between 1998 and
2003 ("generation 2000") and roads improved between 2004 and 2006 ("generation
2004"). This distinction allowed differentiating between short-term impacts (noticeable
between 0-2 years after road improvement) and mid/long-term impacts (noticeable
between 2-8 years after road improvement).

For the purpose of the 2006 evaluation, a panel of 3,763 households was constituted, in
13 departamentos. This panel includes 2,061 households surveyed in 2000, minus 688




control road was selected based on the following additional considerations: (i) road length; (ii) size and
characteristics of neighboring cities, villages and communities; (iii) climatic and agriculture environment;
(iv) main function of road; (v) socio-economic characteristics of population; (vi) public investment
programs.
17(1) transport conditions; (2) access to public services; (3) access to private services; (4) productive
activities; (5) income; (6) expenditures; (7) employment; (8) migration; (9) gender; (10) institutions; (11)
environment; (12) participation; (13) safety; (14) poverty/living standards; and (15) households'
perceptions.


                                                     73

which were lost, plus 2,390 households interviewed in 2004. Ultimately, 85 percent of
these households could be contacted and surveyed (1,218 for 2000 and 1,965 for 2004).                  18



                      Table 9: surveyed households' distribution per region

             Departamento                          generation 2000                generation 2004
               Amazonas                                    0                               0
                 Ancash                                   127                            194
                Apurimac                                  122                            207
                Arequipa                                   0                              68
               Ayacucho                                   94                             116
               Cajamarca                                  302                            108
                  Cuzco                                   126                            261
             Huancavelica                                 103                            197
                Huanuco                                   81                             182
                  Junín                                   36                             257
              La Libertad                                  0                               0
                   Lima                                    0                               0
            Madre de Dios                                 49                              46
               Moquegua                                    0                               0
                  Pasco                                   35                              94
                   Piura                                   0                               0
                   Puno                                   55                             145
               San Martín                                  88                             90
                TOTAL                                    1218                            1965

GRADE classified the various effects of the program, depending not only on the intensity
of the effect, but also on its statistical significance (standard deviation). This is an
important improvement to the methodology used by Instituto Cuanto for the first two
impact evaluations, since, in these, the intensity only was considered.

Finally, it should be noted that some of the lost households of generations 2000 and 2004
are likely to have migrated to other areas. The program may have indirectly contributed
to their migration by facilitating transport, and some of these households may have seen
their situation improved as a result of their migration to more productive areas. Since
these households could not be surveyed, these effects are not considered in the current
evaluation and, as a result, program's overall benefits may be underestimated.

Results from the 3rd impact evaluation

Impacts with statistical significance (at least at 20 percent) observed between 2004 and
2006 include the following:

Effects on transport conditions. Results confirmed that the improvement of road
conditions had a significant and immediate impact to reduce travel times. This
improvement also resulted, though in a differed manner, in an increase of transport use


18However, this proportion varies significantly with departamentos: less than 70 percent of households
could be found in the department of Ayacucho, Pasco and San Martin.


                                                    74

  (traffic and transport services frequency). The traffic of lighter vehicles (cars, microbus),
  which are likely to be more sensitive to road conditions, was particularly increased. There
  is also evidence that vehicle maintenance costs were reduced and, therefore, all transport
  service providers benefited from the program through a reduction of their operating costs.
  The ultimate effect on the pricing of transport services is more mixed: on the one hand,
  transport prices for car passengers dropped in a very significant way; on the other hand,
  prices for goods transported by heavier vehicles (microbus, bus and trucks) increased
  significantly. The drop in car transport prices might be interpreted by the combination of
  decreased operating costs with increased competition arising from increased traffic. For
  heavier vehicles (bus, trucks), rehabilitation standards (unpaved rural roads) may not
  have been a sufficient incentive to increase traffic which could have increased
  competition and, ultimately, lead to a reduction of transport prices. In addition, the truck
  industry is well-known in many countries for its sometimes monopolistic behaviors
  which could explain why the reduction of operating costs was not transferred to users of
  transport services. The net benefit for rural communities living nearby roads rehabilitated
  under the program may still be positive since the bulk of traffic increase comes from cars
  for which transport costs have decreased significantly.

                Table 10: key effects on transport conditions (double-difference, percent)

                         Effect                                    Generation                             Generation 2004
                                                                       2000               Total           Rural Roads          NMT Tracks
Travel times                                                            -12               -53 (*)                -30            -58 (o)
Traffic
  Cars                                                               +132 (*)              +106
  Microbus                                                              +52                +61
  Bus                                                                  +185                +119
  Truck                                                                 +31                +66
Transport services frequency
  Cars                                                                 +115                 +2
  Microbus                                                           +138 (*)              +51
  Bus                                                                  +163                 -92
  Truck                                                                 -93                 -78
Transport prices for passengers
  Cars                                                                -78 (**)             +13
  Microbus                                                              +22                 -14
  Bus                                                                   -31                +104
  Truck                                                                 -61                +24
Transport prices for goods
  Cars                                                                  -18                 -15
  Microbus                                                           +121 (**)               -3
  Bus                                                                +114 (*)               -23
  Truck                                                             +386 (***)             +102
Vehicle maintenance costs                                              -44 (*)             +26
  (o) significant at 20 percent; (*) significant at 10 percent; (**) significant at 5 percent; (***) significant at 1 percent;


  Effects on access to social services. Results confirmed the effect of improved transport
  conditions on improving access to education and health services. Primary school
  enrollment rose significantly in the case of roads rehabilitated before 2003. A similar



                                                                        75

  effect was observed for secondary schools in the case of roads rehabilitated between 2004
  and 2006. Important gender differences were also reported: a very significant and
  immediate effect was observed in the case of girls attending primary schools, while a
  similar effect was observed for boys but in the case of secondary education. These results
  are consistent with the interpretation proposed in the literature that girls are more
  sensitive than boys to sound transport conditions to go to school because of the increased
  security they ensure. On the other hand while boys might be relatively indifferent to
  improved transport conditions to go to nearby primary schools, they should be more
  sensitive to them in order to access secondary schools requiring longer and, possibly
  more hazardous, traveling. Another hypothesis is that the returns to primary school are
  high enough to justify paying the cost of traveling to school, but the returns to secondary
  schools fall relative to the cost of transportation, thus, on the margin, lowering the cost of
  transport with help to align the cost of transport with the benefits from secondary
  schooling. Why this may be different for boys and girls may be explained by the fact that,
  on average, returns for schooling for a girl are lower than that for a boy, given some
  social discrimination toward employed women or some other reason. Only rural roads
  seem to play a role in providing improved access to education, while NMT tracks have
  little impact in this regard and seem to play a different function (see below). Finally, and
  although these results seem less statistically significant, a decrease of teacher absenteeism
  was reported in the project areas. Regarding access to health services, a very strong
  decrease in the number of young children affected from illness or accident was reported
  among the rural population having access to improved NMTs. This suggests that the
  access of women, mothers of young children, to health centers was facilitated by
  improved transport conditions.

              Table 11: key effects on access to social services (double-difference, percent)

                         Effect                                    Generation                             Generation 2004
                                                                       2000               Total           Rural Roads          NMT Tracks
% school enrollment for children
  Age 6-11                                                            +2.8 (*)             +1.4                 +2.6             -3.0
  Age 12-18                                                             -1.6             +4.2 (*)            +6.6 (**)           -3.7
% school enrollment for boys
  Age 6-11                                                           +4.4 (**)             -3.7                  -3.5            -3.8
  Age 12-18                                                             -4.0             +7.0 (**)           +9.7 (***)          -0.6
% school enrollment for girls
  Age 6-11                                                              +0.6            +5.3 (***)           +6.7 (***)          -1.5
  Age 12-18                                                             -1.2               -0.3                 +1.2             -5.7
% people suffering from illness or accident
  All age                                                               -3.3               -2.5                  -3.8            +2.1
  Age 0-5                                                               -2.9              -8.1 (*)               -6.8           -12.9 (*)
  (o) significant at 20 percent; (*) significant at 10 percent; (**) significant at 5 percent; (***) significant at 1 percent;


  Effects on employment. NMT tracks' improvement was found to have a significant and
  short-term impact on employment. However, these new jobs mostly seem to come from
  unpaid family workers and mostly belong to the agriculture and forestry sectors. One
  interpretation could be that improved transport conditions allow easier access of other
  family members (women, children) to cultivated areas where they can therefore



                                                                        76

  contribute to productive activities. Thus, NMT tracks seem to create employment
  opportunities that should help raise households' income, but mostly under the most
  informal types of employment relations (unpaid family work). On the other hand, the
  effect of rural roads investments is different: they seem to helping rural populations move
  from informal jobs (unpaid family workers) to formal ones (private workers and public
  employees). It could be interpreted as a facilitated access of rural workers to more
  urbanized areas with greater employment opportunities in the formal sector. Better roads
  might also facilitate the development of public services in rural areas, explaining the
  increase of the proportion of public employees (e.g. teachers). Job opportunities created
  under the micro-enterprises' program to ensure routine road maintenance might
  contribute to that effect. Another feature is the decrease of cattle breeding activities
  which may be interpreted as a modification of households' strategy for savings assets as a
  protection against possible future adverse events (see below).

                       Table 12: key effects on employment (double-difference, percent)

                         Effect                                    Generation                             Generation 2004
                                                                       2000               Total           Rural Roads          NMT Tracks
Employment situation
  Dependent                                                             +0.1               +0.5                 +0.7              +0.2
  Independent                                                           +1.1               +0.0                  -3.0           +8.8 (*)
  Unemployed                                                            -0.3               +0.3                 +0.3              +0.5
  Non active                                                            -1.1               -1.0                 +1.8            -9.0 (**)
Employment category
  Public employee                                                       +0.3             +1.1 (*)             +1.4 (*)            +0.2
  Private employee                                                      +0.7               -0.4                  -0.2            -0.9 (o)
  Public worker                                                         +0.6               +0.3                 +0.3              +0.7
  Private worker                                                     -3.2 (***)            +1.0               +3.6 (*)          -4.0 (***)
  Farmer/Fisherman                                                      -1.6               +1.8                 +1.9              +1.2
  Other independent worker                                              +2.1               -1.4                  -0.7             -3.2
  Unpaid family worker                                                  +1.5               -2.5               -6.0 (**)         +8.4 (*)
Productive activity
  Agriculture/Forestry                                                  +1.6               +2.0                  -0.7           +9.7 (*)
  Cattle breeding                                                       -1.8               -2.3                  -1.2            -5.7 (o)
  Commerce and services                                                 -0.5               -0.4                  -0.4             +0.1
  Others                                                                +0.6               +0.1                 +1.3             -3.3 (o)
  (o) significant at 20 percent; (*) significant at 10 percent; (**) significant at 5 percent; (***) significant at 1 percent;


  Other effects on agricultural and forestry activities. Results show that improved rural
  roads helped increase the cultivated area to an important extent. However, the net
  agricultural income per area was found to decrease, though results are significant at only
  20 percent. One proposed interpretation is that cultivated products were locally consumed
  and that overproduction may have resulted in a drop of prices. Regarding NMT tracks, a
  limited reduction of cultivated area was observed (significant at only 20 percent), as well
  as a very important drop of expenditures per cultivated or forestry area. This drop is most
  likely due to the increased involvement of "free labor force" (unpaid family workers).
  The reduction of cultivated area might be explained by the increased possibility for
  households to focus on more productive areas, thanks to better transport conditions. An
  important effect was also found on the price of irrigated land in the case of rural roads.


                                                                        77

   Better motorized transport conditions might increase the possibility for more mechanized,
   intensive agriculture, resulting in a greater attractiveness of irrigated land. However, in
   the long-term (generation 2000), this effect does not seem to sustain. Another long-term
   effect found is the reduction of horses owned by rural households. The impact of better
   roads on the traffic of motorized vehicles may, in the long-term, reduce the need for
   animal-based transport. Finally, in the case of rural roads, it seems that households had a
   better access to credit services (as measured by the number of applications). The impact
   on the households who actually got a credit is, however, not statistically significant.



          Table 13: key effects on agricultural/forestry activities (double-difference, percent)

                          Effect                                    Generation                             Generation 2004
                                                                        2000               Total           Rural Roads          NMT Tracks
Cultivated area                                                          +10                +10                +22 (*)            -15 (o)
Expenditures per cultivated/forest area                               -31.2 (o)             -3.7                 +1.5            -62.3 (o)
Net income per cultivated/forest area                                   +12.3               -24.0             -57.6 (o)           +88.2
Irrigated land value per area                                           -52 (o)              10                +41 (o)             -16
Dry land value per area                                                   -5                 -17                  -17              -26
Owned horses                                                           -50 (**)              +9                   +20               0
Households who asked for a credit and                                    -4.7            +12.8 (**)          +15.0 (**)            0.0
received an answer (negative or positive)
Households who received a credit                                         -1.0               +1.2                 +2.1              -1.3
   (o) significant at 20 percent; (*) significant at 10 percent; (**) significant at 5 percent; (***) significant at 1 percent;


   Effects of income and poverty. Evaluation shows a strong, short-term and significant
   positive impact on households' income for NMT tracks. On the other hand, households
   living nearby "generation 2000" roads seem to have undergone a limited reduction of
   their income. This result should be nuanced (i) by the fact it is significant at only 20
   percent, (ii) because the 2004 evaluation reported an increase in income so that the net
   benefit may still remain positive, and (iii) by the fact that income from people who
   migrated are not taken into account. In terms of composition of households' income, a
   sharp decrease in revenues from cattle breeding, as main productive activity of rural
   households, was observed. As reported in the literature, this diversification could be
   explained by the fact that households have more confidence in the future (and in the
   sustainability of transport conditions' improvement) so that they invest less in buying
   cattle (generally considered a saving behavior). It also seems that the significant income
   increase for population benefiting from improved NMT tracks comes from a
   diversification of productive activities outside subsistence agriculture (in petty commerce
   and other services). In terms of impact on poverty (national definition), a significant
   short-term increase of non-poor was observed for NMT tracks. This suggests that this
   type of basic transport infrastructure alone can make a strong difference for the most
   remote communities, by bringing them access and allowing them to trade their products
   in local markets. On the other hand, the poverty effect of rural roads' investments is less
   obvious (results for generation 2000 even suggest that, in the long-term, extreme poverty
   increases, possibly from as a consequence the migration of the "wealthier households").
   One interpretation should be that rural roads alone, despite their other benefits on


                                                                         78

  bringing access to social services, are not sufficient to have a noticeable impact on
  poverty and that a combination of rural roads with other types of investments (e.g. rural
  infrastructure) is needed to overcome possible threshold effects. This conclusion
  reinforces the relevance of introducing a "rural infrastructure pilot" in the follow-on
  operation (Decentralized Rural Transport Project). Indeed, other studies conducted in
  Peru19 reported evidence that impact on rural households' income is greater when rural
  transport is combined with other rural infrastructure interventions ("bundling benefits").

                 Table 14: key effects on income and poverty (double-difference, percent)

                         Effect                                    Generation                             Generation 2004
                                                                       2000               Total           Rural Roads          NMT Tracks
Per capita monthly income                                              -9.3 (o)          +9.5 (o)               +6.0            +25.6 (*)
Net monthly income from main activity                                -10.2 (o)             +1.6                 +4.3             +4.4
  from agriculture and forestry activities                              +0.6               +3.0                  -6.6           +13.0
  from cattle                                                        -81.4 (**)            -6.5                 +8.6             -43.6
  from commerce and services                                         -26.1 (o)             -1.7                 +1.0             +4.6
  others                                                                +5.5              +16.1                +26.1            +10.1
Composition of total income
  from agriculture and forestry activities                            +6.4 (o)             -3.1                  -4.4            -0.3
  from cattle                                                           -2.6               +0.2                 +1.9             -5.4
  from commerce and services                                            -2.7               +1.6                 +0.1            +6.7 (o)
  others                                                                -0.7               +1.4                 +2.5             -1.1
Poverty rates (percentage points)
  Extreme poverty                                                      8.1 (*)             -4.1                  -4.2            -4.0
  Non-extreme poverty                                                   -1.8               +1.5                 +3.4             -4.2
  Non-poor                                                            -6.1 (*)             +2.2                 +0.5            +8.7 (*)
  (o) significant at 20 percent; (*) significant at 10 percent; (**) significant at 5 percent; (***) significant at 1 percent;


  Households' perception. Rural households and local stakeholders (mostly local leaders)
  were also surveyed to assess their perception of the program and how this perception
  evolved over time. Rehabilitation works for rural roads led to a strong and statistically
  significant increase of stakeholders' and households' satisfactory perception. Remaining
  dissatisfaction is mostly due to stakeholders' expectations that more roads or additional
  infrastructure need to be rehabilitated. Moreover, this positive perception is stable over
  time (for roads rehabilitated 3 or more years before), suggesting that road quality is
  sustainable over time (most likely as a consequence of the maintenance arrangements).
  The situation is different for NMT tracks where local stakeholders' perception seemed to
  deteriorate before and after rehabilitation, unlike for rural households for which it
  increased. This might be interpreted by the fact that local leaders ­ who may less use
  NMTs - would have preferred a higher-standard of transport infrastructure (rural roads)
  while households, as actual users, acknowledged the usefulness of NMTs. Maintenance
  activities were positively perceived for rural roads (micro-enterprises) but much less so
  for NMT tracks, which could also be a consequence of the fact that local stakeholders,
  unlike households using these infrastructure, reject the NMT rehabilitation and
  maintenance model. This could however also mean that the maintenance arrangements

  19 Escobal, J. and Torrero, M. ­ Análisis de los Servicios de Infraestructura Rural y las Condiciones de
  Vida en las Zonas Rurales de Perú, 2004.


                                                                        79

     for NMT tracks (rural roads committees) are less of an efficient and sustainable
     mechanism than maintenance arrangements for rural roads (micro-enterprises). Main
     reasons behind dissatisfaction expressed in a few limited cases regarding maintenance
     arrangements include micro-enterprises' insufficient presence and disorganization.
     Finally, benefits reported by households are grossly consistent with evaluation's
     conclusions summarized above: access to social services (education, health) is increased
     by a greater extent in the case of rural roads, while in the case of NMT tracks, the greatest
     impact is on employment opportunities (though access to social services is also
     mentioned).

            Table 15: Local stakeholders' and households' perception of rural roads' activities
                                                                     (percent)

                          Effect                                    Generation                                  Generation 2004
                                                                         2000                    Total             Rural Roads      NMT Tracks
                                                                    2004       2006        2004        2006        2004       2006   2004 2006
Local stakeholders' perception of rehabilitation works
Satisfactory                                                         79          76          67         77*          62       81***  84   60**
Non Satisfactory
 Use of less-quantity materials than needed                          39         60*          27         45*          30         50*   0   36**
 Use of less-quality materials than needed                           44          50          28       55***          32         54*   0   57***
 Some segments were not rehabilitated                                24        85***         25       63***          26       69***  14   50*
 Inadequate bridges                                                  27        53**          30          45          34          46       43**
 Other infrastructure missing                                        32        65***         40        65**          43       77***  14    43
 Other reasons                                                       20          8           18          18          19          8   14    36

Local stakeholders' perception of maintenance activities
Satisfactory                                                         72          74          69          69          68          75  71   47**
Non Satisfactory
 Microenterprise not working                                         17        68***         21       48***          27       50**    0   44***
 Microenterprise disorganized                                        26        52***         10       44***          13       41***   0   50***
 Microenterprises members
   Do not know about road maintenance                                24         41*          12        28**          16          31   0   22**
   Spend less time than needed                                       43          41           9       44***          11       53***   0   28**
   Do not fulfill their contract                                     37          46           7       30***           9       28**    0   33***

 Other reasons                                                       26          18          24          28          27          25  15    33

Households' perception
% benefiting from better transport                                   72          72          57       72***          60       74***  47   65***
 thanks to road rehabilitation                                       62         69*          50       69***          54       71***  37   61***
Benefits associated with rehabilitation
 Better access to health services                                    64         72*          46       64***          49       64***  33   63***
 Better access to education                                          50        64***         35       57***          38       57***  22   54***
 Better access to markets                                            78          74          83       68***          85       69***  74    65
 Better employment opportunities                                     55          55          35       57***          41       57***  14   56***
 Reduced prices for goods                                            38        28***         18       26***          21       30***   5    11
 Others                                                              36         29*          17          20          16          20  21    17

     (o) significant at 20 percent; (*) significant at 10 percent; (**) significant at 5 percent; (***) significant at 1 percent;




                                                                           80

       Results from 1st and 2nd impact evaluations

       A summary of key conclusions from the first and second impact evaluations is presented
       in the table below. Conclusions are remarkably consistent between these two evaluations:

            · Rural roads programs were found to have a strong and short-term effect on
               improving transport conditions (decreased travel times and travel costs, more
               reliable transport services) and on increasing traffic.

            · A longer-term impact was found on improving access to social services
               (particularly health). In the case of the second evaluation, improved transport also
               led to increased security (higher number of police interventions).

            · Better roads allowed improving some performance indicators related to the rural
               economy: livestock ownership increased, as well as farm prices, access to
               marketplace was facilitated, and a small positive effect was reported in terms of
               farmed land area, access to credit and diversification outside the agriculture
               sector. In terms of income, agricultural wages were found to increase and
               employment structure was slightly modified with greater diversification.

            · An ultimate effect on reducing rural poverty was slightly found in the case of the
               2004 evaluation, suggesting that this was a longer-term effect.

           Table 16: summary of key results from the first and second impact evaluations

   Sector                  Indicator             Term       Hypothesis  2000 evaluation   2004 evaluation
Transportation  Travel time                      Short      Decrease         High             High
                Traffic rate                     Short      Increase         High             High
                Fare prices                   Short-Med.    Decrease    Moderate/High     Moderate/High
                Freight prices                Short-Med.    Decrease         High             High
                Road closure                     Short      Decrease       Moderate         Moderate
                Reliability public transport  Short-Med.    Increase    Moderate/High     Moderate/High
  Access to     School Registered children    Med.-Long      Increase        Low               Low
public services Health consultations          Short-Med.     Increase      Moderate         Moderate
                Judicial causes               Short-Med.     Increase        Null              Null
                No. of police interventions   Short-Med.    Increase         N.A.             High
 Productive     Farmed land area                 Med.        Increase        Low               Low
  activities    Land value                      Medium       Increase        Null              Null
                Productivity                    Medium       Increase        Null              Null
                Livestock ownership             Medium       Increase      Moderate         Moderate
                Farm prices                   Short-Med.    Increase         High             High
                Crop allocation               Med.-Long     Variation        Null              Null
                Market-oriented produce         Medium       Increase        Null              Null
                Access to marketplace         Short-Med.     Increase      Moderate         Moderate
                Access to credit              Med.-Long      Increase        Low               Low
                No & income of com. estab.      Medium       Increase        Low               Low
                Income structure              Med.-Long    Diversificat      Low               Low
                                                                .
Employment      Type of occupation            Med.-Long     Variation        Low               Low
                Occupation category           Med.-Long     Variation        Null              Null
                Productive activity           Med.-Long     Variation        Null              Null
                Agricultural day's wage         Medium       Increase      Moderate         Moderate
                Labor force structure         Med.-Long     Variation        Low               Low


                                                      81

Migration       No. of migrants             Med.-Long   Decrease          Null               Null
                No. of returning migrants   Med.-Long    Increase         Low                Low
 Poverty        Poverty levels                Long      Decrease          Null               Low
Institutions    No. of new institutions     Short-Med.   Increase      Moderate            Moderate
Road safety     No. of traffic accidents      Short      Increase         Low                Low
Environment     Use of land                  Medium      Increase         Low                Null
                Use of chemicals             Medium      Increase         Null               Null
                Deforestation               Short-Med.   Increase         Low                Low
      N.A.: Not Available


      After the second evaluation was conducted, an interpretation was proposed that the
      dynamics of rural roads' programs' benefits would follow the following sequence: (i)
      short-term effect on improved transport conditions; (ii) mid-term outcomes in terms of
      improved human capital (through access to social services) and greater productivity of
      the rural economy (cheaper inputs, greater productive time, easier access to markets); and
      (iii) ultimate long-term impacts in terms of higher income and reduced poverty (see
      Figure).

          Figure 6: proposed dynamics of rural roads programs' benefits (after 2nd evaluation)




      Although the most relevant results are consistent, there exist differences between the
      conclusions from these two evaluations performed by Instituto Cuanto and the
      conclusions from the third evaluation performed by GRADE. These differences could
      come from methodological differences between the first two evaluations and the third
      one:

          · The first evaluation looked at the impact of the Road Rehabilitation and
              Maintenance Project (1st phase of the Peru Rural Roads program, implemented in




                                                  82

       1995-2000). This evaluation was performed without a baseline. One objective of
       this first evaluation was to provide a baseline for the 2nd Rural Roads project.

    · The first and second evaluations were performed without assessing the standard
       deviation of results so that the statistical significance of the various effects is not
       known (only the intensity of these effects).

    · The first two evaluations did not discriminate between rural roads and NMT
       tracks. In the first evaluation, no NMT tracks were taken into account and in the
       second evaluation, NMT represented one third of the sample but were not isolated
       in the analysis. The third evaluation included half of NMTs and half of rural roads
       and distinguished the impacts achieved for the two types of infrastructure.

These limitations impede a strict comparison between the results obtained from the three
evaluations. However, they illustrate the learning process through which Provias
Descentralizado has been constantly improving the evaluation methodology applied to
assess its programs. For the follow-on project (Decentralized Rural Transport project), it
is envisaged to continue refining this methodology. To this end, a partnership with the
Bank research department (DEC) was constituted.




                                             83

              Annex 6.        Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Stakeholder Workshop

A stakeholder workshop has been organized by Provías Descentralizado in Lima on
March 13th 2007. The goal of this event, chaired by the executive director of Provias and
attended by Provias's staff, provincial mayors, PRIs' managers, micro-entrepreneurs,
representatives of associations helped by the LDW, as well as representatives of the IaDB
and the World Bank, was to present the main results achieved by the project and its
different components and the lessons learned for the future.

Different presentations were made, starting with a general one presenting the project as a
whole, followed by more specific ones presenting the results of the different components
of the project: road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance, road routine maintenance,
Local Development Window, river transport improvement pilot, institutional
strengthening and support to the decentralization process:
    · Regarding road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance activities, the main results
       of the project were presented (e.g. km of roads rehabilitated) and it had been
       mentioned that this second road project had exceeded its initial targets for both
       components. Moreover, good road rehabilitation technical standards - in line with
       rural population needs - have been applied, leading to good road conditions when
       followed by proper rehabilitation.
    · The routine road rehabilitation component was also presented. Once the general
       figures had been stated, one had emphasized on the efficient maintenance
       mechanism that has been implemented, relying heavily on micro-enterprises, and
       had stressed out the positive participation of women in these activities.
    · The river transport improvement pilot and its results had also been presented, as
       well as the lessons learned during these five years, including: the need to work in
       a coordinate manner with regional and local authorities and the technical
       challenges of rehabilitating roads in a rain forest...
    · Regarding the LDW, after a presentation of key results, speakers focused on two
       specific initiatives: a fishing farm in the Sauce lake and café producers in
       Pamashito, Lamas. Main lessons are that: (i) transferring resources is not enough
       and must be accompanied by a transfer of capacity; (ii) rural roads investments
       have a greater impact when this type of support to entrepreneurship activities is
       provided; (iii) participation of women has a positive impact on the efficiency of
       these activities.
    · Finally, results on decentralization and institutional strengthening have been
       presented, with an emphasis on the incorporation of PRIs in MEF's public budget
       cycle and the fact that the decentralization of road routine maintenance activities
       have generated and increased local capacity.

On a more general basis, it was mentioned that the second rural roads project has greatly
contributed to the positive evolution ­ at the country level ­ of the following aspects:
    -  Administrative management systems (VANTEC, SIGA and SIGAT);



                                             84

    -  Interfaces with external information systems (interface SIGA-SIAF, interface
       SIGAT-other systems...)
    -  Incorporation of environmental studies in the road investment process
    -  Gender consideration and reconnaissance of the positive impact of women
       participation
    -  Strengthening of the road inventory (notably with the introduction of GIS)
    -  Support to the road classification strengthening process
    -  Contribution to the road hierarchization process

Despite the successful implementation of this project, some shortcomings still exist and
will have to be addressed by Provías Descentralizado in the near future with the
decentralized rural transport project:
    -  Provias lacks a management information system, as all directorates prepare and
       exchange information only if asked and not on a preliminary basis;
    -  Research and development activities will need to be performed, and to date, only
       one research on rural roads stabilizers has been done;
    -  In some regions, provincial corridors are not well articulated with regional
       corridors;
    -  Some confusion still exists regarding the definition of the beginning of a rural
       road.

Finally, the main results of the first two impact evaluation studies (performed in 2000 and
2004) were also presented to the different stakeholders and proper dissemination has been
performed. Specific impacts, which are more detailed in this report, have been
emphasized: the positive impact of the project on travel time and costs, employment and
access to social services and economic and development opportunities.

This workshop contributed to the dissemination of the results of the second rural road
project. All stakeholders agreed with the positive impacts of this project on the rural areas
where it has been implemented. More importantly, a broad consensus exists on the
various principles of the project and the positive impact it can produce: road
rehabilitation with low-cost standards followed by proper maintenance delivered by
micro-enterprises, participatory planning processes, decentralization of maintenance and
planning, complementarities of these road investments with initiatives like the LDW,
need to adapt the project to the specificities of the selva region...


Gender Assessment

A) Advantages of mainstreaming gender in the Project:

1. Time saving. Travel time represents a burden that women often are not aware of
because they think it is linked to their condition as women. The traditional
responsibilities of Peruvian rural women are multiple, ranging from managing
households, caring for children and elderly, working at home, carrying water or woods or
attending the mass. They need to balance their time between a variety of activities, more



                                              85

than men do. Whenever women need to travel, they have to free up some time by leaving
apart other responsibilities which might be more valuable to them, to their relatives or to
their community. As a result, they tend to limit their mobility to the domestic space. The
Project has reduced women-transport constrains by means of interventions in rural roads,
which has allowed them to free some time, that they used in particular to engage in
income-generating activities and participation processes.

2. Access and Inclusion. The Project contributed to ensuring women's access to
resources, education, employment, markets and trade, administrative centers, public
services and consultations, and to decision-making processes. In addition, children school
attendance has increased and mothers were found to be able to take their children to
health centers more easily. The Project also facilitated access of pregnant women to
hospitals where they could give birth in safer conditions. Women working in the MEMVs
could earn an income, allowing them to use public transport. Besides other social and
economic problems, the low response to literacy programs among women comes from
their scarce time availability, their lack of self-esteem and sometimes community
censure. However, female micro-entrepreneurs were found to be firm believers of the
importance of sending their children (girls and boys) to school. In many cases, these
illiterate women were also reconsidering going to school themselves.

3. Empowerment. In low-income households in rural Peru, alcohol abuse by men and
domestic violence on children and women are common. In this context, the participation
of women in the MEMVs contributed to their empowerment: they were able to learn, to
walk out their domestic environment, to participate in their communities' decisions, and
to strengthen their capabilities. In one of the workshops that were organized during
project implementation, some of the women stated: "I did not know that I had rights",
thus illustrating the crucial importance of capacity training delivered to women, as well
as of literacy teaching in order to support women empowerment and public participation.
Evidence shows that impacts of women education are multiple, ranging from reduced
fertility ratios, increased health for family members, to better household's cash
management.

4. Control of the economic resources. Unlike men, women spend most of their earnings
in nutrition and children's education. The Project contributed to increase women's
earnings and, consequently, promoting women's control on domestic economic
resources. In the long term, this empowerment can lead to tackle other problems like
malnutrition or domestic violence.

5. Better quality of works, improved transparency in income management, moral,
tidiness, and hygiene within the MEMV teams. As team members in the MEMVs, women
proved to be generally more effective in ensuring the quality of the road maintenance
works. They were better trusted by their male colleagues because they were perceived as
being incorruptible. Women were found to be more reliable in managing income because
they are more transparent with accounts' management and because they view corrupt
practices more negatively than men. Women do a better job at negotiating work
certificates payments. They are better organized to manage food and they do not consume



                                            86

alcohol. Technically, they were more proactive in performing their work and they have
been found to be more efficient than men for certain tasks (e.g. cleaning road drainage).
Men stated that when women started working in their micro-enterprise, they quit drinking
during work, the number and duration of pauses diminished, and micro-entrepreneurs
became more responsible.

6. Women open the doors for the next generation. Most Peruvian rural women and men
who have worked in MEMV have sent their children to school, to secondary school, and
some of them to University in far away urban centers. Children whose mothers are
MEMV workers dream about working when they are older, especially girls, who talk
about working outside the domestic sphere.

B) Barriers overcome when mainstreaming gender in the Project:

1. The machismo behavior of some Peruvian men, prevented women from leaving their
historically and socially assigned function and from interacting with other community
members. In many cases, this was a key barrier that prevented women from working in a
male-dominated environment, such as road maintenance. Many women did not see
working in a MEMV as an opportunity to get a sustainable income and, consequently, a
better life for them and their families. Furthermore, husbands were afraid of losing their
"bread-winner" role.

2. Community's critics affected negatively women's willing to work on MEMV. The
decency of women who work among men or who perform a male job is questioned
within the community. Women determination to work in the MEMV conflicted with the
traditions of their communities and they were discouraged to break the conventional
unwritten rules.

3. Women Illiteracy. The low education of Peruvian rural women limited their access to
salaried jobs and decision making levels. For that reason, the Project did not include
literacy as a criterion for women to become micro-entrepreneurs.

4. Women conditions in the MEMV were more challenging than for men. (i) before
joining the team in the morning, women had to complete domestic tasks such as
preparing the daily food for the family; (ii) technical performance parameters were high,
and they had to stand their colleagues mockery; (iii) single women had to undergo the
reluctances of their communities, which discouraged them from working or joining
MEMV, and (iv) whenever female workers could not find someone to take care of their
children, they had to assign this task to their elder daughters, who had in some cases to
give up her studies.

C) Gender assessment by component

NMT tracks improvement

This component came as an answer to the specific needs of the most rural peoples,
identified through the consultation processes that took place during the preparation of the


                                             87

program. Consequently, this component benefited directly low-income groups, and
especially women who are the most frequent users of informal transport modes like
NMTs.

Women participation quota in the Rural Roads Committees was set as 20 percent, both
for the committees and for the remunerated teams. During the selection process 30
percent of candidates were women.

                           CVR composition by Gender, indicating the % of women.
                                            (1st Quarter 2006)


                                     21.38%
                 Other

                                       33.17%
                  Fiscal

                                         52.08%
               Facilitator
                                                      24%in the Management Board
                                         42.25%                                     Women
               Treasury                                                             Men
                                          18.70%
               Secretary

                                          4.60%
               President


                          0      200        400       600        800       1000

                                                Total



Impacts:

1. Rural women strengthening. Whenever these rural women exit their limited domestic
sphere and participate actively in the decision making processes of their communities,
their auto-esteem is increased and they gain respect in public spaces where new
opportunities can emerge for them.

2. Women gain power and prestige within their communities and their families, which
helps breaking up socio-historical stereotypes.

3. Working in the road maintenance teams allowed women to earn an income and
become better integrated in the formal economy.

4. Attending trainings and capacity-building events allowed women to have access to
technology and know-how.

5. Women became watchdog for the administration and improvement of rural roads.
Women were found to care more about money and efficient use of resources and, many
times, they were assigned treasury responsibilities (42 percent of female entrepreneurs
were treasurers). In addition, some women were in charge of bringing the work
certificates to local government for payment. Before showing these certificates, women
also ensured that the quality of the works was up to the agreed technical standards.
Women gained trust among their colleagues by doing a reliable job in managing funds
and they gained respect by motivating the team to achieve quality in performing road
maintenance works.



                                                       88

6. Women participation, both as members and as workers in the Rural Roads
Committees, guaranteed that the socio-economic impact resulted in a better quality of life
for their families and their communities.

7. Management capacity building has proven to be crucial to guarantee a long term
impact on gender equity and on the sustainability of the gender know-how. Identifying
female leaders and ensuring their participation in training workshops could have been
further enforced.

Rural Roads Maintenance Micro-Enterprises.

Rural women, especially vulnerable women like widows and single mothers, have little
opportunities to find a job in the Peruvian rural areas. Still, they have to feed their
children (on average 3 to 7) and many times their entire family. The Project, through its
need of intensive labor for the routine road maintenance activities, offered these women
an opportunity to have a job and earn a sustainable salary for their household.

                  Table 17: Gender analysis of routine maintenance tasks

Tasks in the routine maintenance of rural roads                  Who does what?

                                                     Men          Women            Both
1.Patching                                                           X              X

2. Cleaning of platform                                              X              X

3. Cleaning of curbs                                                 X              X

4. Cleaning of culverts                                X                            X

5. Cleaning of dips                                                  X              X

6. Cleaning of ditches                                               X              X

7. Cleaning of riverbeds                               X                            X

8. Mending dry walls                                   X                            X

9.Reparing&Cleaning wood bridges                       X                            X

10. Removing stones from slopes                        X                            X

11. Rubbing and cleaning                                             X              X

12. Traffic signs maintenance                                        X              X

13. Surveillance and control                                         X              X


At the beginning of the Project, some women (4 percent) became members of MEMVs
mainly to replace their disabled or deceased husbands, during seasonal situations, in cases
when men migrated to get better salaries, or when they had specific administrative skills.
The affirmative actions integrated in the MEMV Operational Manual (dissemination of
information targeting women, quotas, gender awareness workshops, etc.) helped reaching
24 percent of women participation.




                                               89

Understanding barriers to women inclusion in the MEMV. Road works generally
constitute a male environment, both, because of safety reasons and because it requires a
physical effort; associated to masculinity. Besides, the idiosyncrasy of the communities
and individuals of the areas where the MEMV were created prevented women from
performing these masculine responsibilities and from working together with men in an
open space like a road. Moreover, most husbands were reluctant to authorize their wives
to work in MEMV, as men are supposed to be the breadwinner for the families, and both
men and women were afraid about what others might think of them. Whenever women
are asked about their feelings at the time they started working at the MEMV, all of them
answered the same: they felt embarrassed.

Following a period of adaptation to the team and work environment, women felt capable
of executing all the different tasks in the MEMV, although they recognized that some of
the tasks required a physical strength. One of the concepts included in the workshops was
the perception of quality of the works. This was important to avoid the traditional
stereotype of giving more value to physical work than to the quality of the work, and
consequently, underestimating women tasks over men's. Adjusting parameters to
measure the performance of road maintenance activities, taking more into account quality
standards, could have provided more evidence of the added-value brought by women
participation in MEMVs.

On average, Peruvian women earn 23 percent less than men with the same level of
education and experience. Unlike in other activities20, female workers from the MEMV
received the same salaries as men.

Mainstreaming Gender in the transport agency structure

The socio-cultural stereotypes and technical specifications associate the infrastructure
sector, and in particular, the transport sector and its roads, to an environment merely
masculine. At project start, Provias staff, regardless of whether they were women or men,
or whether they were technical or administrative staff, was not conscious of the
differences between men and women needs, nor about the benefits of a gender action
plan.

The inclusion of the gender perspective in the agency was one of the keys for success of
the Project. Gender-related activities were conducted in order to generate gender-
awareness among the staff. 80 percent of the personnel of the unidades zonales (regional
offices) attended the gender awareness workshops, 30 percent at the headquarters in Lima
where a specific session was organized for the board of directors.

Local Development Window through a gender viewpoint

During the preparation of the LDW's local development plans, a Rapid Rural Poll was
carried out in every community. This poll stipulates that the population sample must be


20Peru Poverty Assessment, The World Bank, Dec 2005. Female workers receive lower wages than their
male counterparts, and the gender gap is larger for household heads than for other workers.


                                                     90

differentiated by sex and age firstly and, secondly by economic condition. As a
consequence, women were represented in the participatory sessions, allowing their
concerns and opinions to be voiced.

As an illustration, the Sauce Lake Project was mostly driven by women from the local
community. 60 percent of these women were fisherwomen who, generally, shared the
tasks with their husbands. The Sauce Lake had lost its productive levels of fish and
women were among the most affected, because they could not feed their children any
longer. Women presented to the LDW program, a project to better exploit the fishery
potential of the lake. One of the impacts of the increment of tilapia production in the lake
was that the area population was eating better. Teachers also reported that better fed
children had an increased attention in school and did not fall asleep during class, as they
used to.

Another example is in Chicche, Huancayo, where women chose to promote self-
employment in processing and dyeing ovine wool. Women spinners have been trained in
shear, post-shear, stocking and dyeing of the wool with natural dyes. The Spinners
Committee of Chicche now consists of 80 spinners, 75 percent of which are women.


Impact on Participatory Processes, Democracy and Rural Institutions

At completion, a study was launched to evaluate the impact of the project on rural
institutions, participatory processes and democracy. Key results are summarized below:

Impact on Civil Engagement. The learning process initiated by the project entailed not
only road assets and resources management, but it brought out a number of new concepts
and endeavors leading to tackle social exclusion, to promote social and political
engagement of the rural peoples and to enhance fully represented participatory
assemblies. Specifically, the project contributed to the decentralization process and to the
promotion of social equality opportunities in rural Peru through: (i) supporting the
creation of rural institutions (e.g. Rural Roads Committees, MEMV, productive
cooperatives), (ii) promoting participatory decisions (prioritizing rural transport
investments), (iv) facilitating strategic local planning and space management by the rural
habitants (Rural Roads Committees, participatory sessions) (v) stimulating local
leaderships (including among women) (vi) fostering productive initiatives and attracting
public and private investment (through the LDW) (v) affecting collaboration between
communities and their local MEMV (members performing free civil works for their
communities and communities helping them in emergency situations like when rain
provokes lack of transitability or when transporters inform about conditions in the road
and give free rides to MEMVs).

Impact on Democracy. In the broader context of recent laws21 which have increased
participatory processes, the project facilitated democratic practices and reduced the cost

21i.e.: Law in transparency and access to public information, law of equity opportunities for women and
men, law in participative budgeting, law in decentralization and municipalities, law in control and citizen


                                                   91

of rural stakeholders' participation through three key factors: rural integration, shortened
distances and increased mobility alternatives.

Participation in Elections. In all of the departments where the project was implemented,
participation in elections was increased by up to a 10%, (increase in Peru as a whole was
4%). This effect is even more noticeable at the provincial with participation in the project
areas being above the provincial average, and in 3 cases, notably above. Noteworthy is
the increase in female participation, which reached a pick of 13 percent in one
department, and exceeded the increase in men's participation in all project areas.

Accountability of elected officials. Increased revocatoria22 processes were observed in the
poorest departments where the project was implemented. One could have expected that
the project would have softened local conflicts and then, prompted a reduction in these
processes by legitimizing local authorities and reducing conflicts. On the other hand, the
"revocatoria" is a sign of participation that reveals interest in public matters and shows
greater accountability of elected officials. Through "revocatoria", rural stakeholders feel
empowered and have an opportunity to voice up their dissatisfaction.

New local leaderships. Management experience gained through project implementation
was transferred to other areas of public management. In the 6 department surveyed, 82
cases showed that MEMV members gained public management positions. In one case, a
PRI manager became president of the regional government.

Quechua sessions. To engage indigenous peoples, remote rural communities and women
in representative participatory processes, some mayors delivered sessions in both Spanish
and Quechua. Participatory budgets were sometimes disseminated in quechua, and
several local governments realized that training sessions and trainers needed to be able to
talk in quechua to guarantee monolingual inhabitants participation.

Impact on rural institutions. The project introduced a collaborative environment which
provided incentives to mayors in order to seek for greater synergies. In a number of
cases, networks of local governments were created. For example, in Angaraes province,
an association of 5 mayors started meeting on a regular basis in order to identify their
rural transport priorities in a concerted manner. In that same province, an association of
10 mayors finally decided to merge their priorities in a single road plan. In Ayacucho, 5
mayors agreed on common arrangements to ensure the maintenance of a rural road.
Through the provincial road board created under the project, district mayors, provincial
mayors and PRI staff got used to hold regular meetings on the definition and
implementation of rural transport policies, and beyond on the definition of a joint vision
for territorial development. For example, in San Martin, 3 districts coordinated to
develop a tourism development program.



participation, . Since 1980 the age for the right to vote was reduced to 18 years old for all citizens (i.e.:
illiterate, women and indigenous peoples). Women vote in Peru since 1956.
22 "Revocatoria": According to the citizens' control and participation law, an elected candidate can be
revoked when 25 percent of the municipal elections registered sign it.


                                                    92

Strengthening of local governments. In provinces with advanced PRI, they were found to
provide significant support to mayors. In particular, PRI provided them with technical
assistance to help organize better their municipality or to prepare bids for road
investments (others than those included in the project). In one case, a mayor wanted to
fully absorb the PRI inside the organization of the municipality in order to benefit from
its expertise and qualified human resources.

Increased transparency in the use of resources. As a result of the project, mayors and
their team started providing more information to local stakeholders about accounts status
and resource use. Some municipalities invited MEMV to be part of participatory budget
sessions or to Local Coordination Councils23. Transparent bidding processes were
implemented, improving efficiency and reducing discretionary behaviors. Predictable
contractual relations are highly regarded by MEMV because, after the transfer of
responsibility to local governments and PRIs, their sustainability depends on the
efficiency and fairness of these procurement processes.




23Consejos de Coordinación Local (CCL): local councils representing civil society organizations in the
participating processes to reach agreements with the governing team. The CCL represents entrepreneurs,
unions, farmers, women, youth, indigenous, businessmen and community based organizations.


                                                  93

                             Annex 7.            Summary of Borrower's ICR


ANTECEDENTES
Según cifras oficiales, a finales de 1995 el Sistema Vial del país24 se encontraba conformado por
un total de 78,043 Km., de los cuales 46,909 Km. (60 %) correspondía a la red vial vecinal
constituida por las vías de carácter local que unen a poblaciones pequeñas entre sí, aunque se
estima que la longitud real sería mucho mayor debido a la dinámica constante en ese nivel.

Esta red de caminos vecinales se encontraba en una crítica situación debido a factores propios de
construcción y climatológicos, así como a la falta de mantenimiento vial                          25, especialmente
después de quince años de violencia sociopolítica que asoló al Perú, deteriorada entre un 80 % a
100 %, caracterizada por una infraestructura deficiente, inexistente o inadecuada; debilidad
institucional estructural en el ámbito local; e inexistencia de recursos financieros para el
desarrollo del transporte rural.

En este contexto, en 1995 se crea el Programa Caminos Rurales, ejecutado por el PROVÍAS
DESCENTRALIZADO, antes PROVÍAS RURAL, del Ministerio de Transportes y
Comunicaciones, desarrollando sus actividades en doce de los departamentos más pobres del
país: Ancash, Apurímac, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cusco, Huancavelica, Huánuco, Junín, Madre de
Dios, Pasco, Puno y San Martín.

Durante la primera etapa (1995 ­ 2000), el Programa estuvo orientado a recuperar y mejorar las
condiciones de transitabilidad de la red vial rural a través de acciones de rehabilitación y
mantenimiento de caminos vecinales y departamentales, pavimentación de calles en centros
poblados y mejoramiento de caminos de herradura, con el fin de incrementar la accesibilidad e
integración de los pobladores rurales más alejados a servicios sociales básicos y a mercados. En
esta primera etapa se intervino en 96 provincias y 380 distritos en estos departamentos en
situación de extrema pobreza, logrando importantes impactos viales, económicos y sociales.

Esta intervención, que constituyó una respuesta apropiada a la situación descrita, permitió la
rehabilitación y el mantenimiento rutinario de más de 11 mil Km. de caminos vecinales, y
mejoramiento de más de 3 mil Km. de caminos de herradura26, por un monto total de US $ 264
millones.

Dos aspectos adicionales son necesarios mencionar sobre esta etapa; por un lado, que las
intervenciones en la vialidad rural no respondieron a demandas dispersas y aisladas, sino que se
planificaron en Talleres Participativos de Priorización, con intervención de Alcaldes Provinciales
y Distritales, y teniendo como unidad mínima de planificación la provincia; por otro lado, con el
fin de preservar las inversiones realizadas, el Programa desarrolló inmediatamente después de la
rehabilitación, en el marco del concepto del ciclo del proyecto, un sistema de mantenimiento
rutinario sostenible con la participación de la comunidad organizada que vive a lo largo del
camino,.

Los efectos de esta intervención fueron la constatación de una reducción de costos de operación y
transacción, generación de empleo, mejoramiento del acceso a los servicios sociales básicos,


24 En términos generales, el sistema Vial del país está clasificada en tres categorías: La Red Primaria o Nacional, Red
  Secundaria o Departamental y la Red Terciaria ó Red Vial Vecinal ó Rural

25"Instituto Cuánto, "Evaluación económica, social, ambiental e institucional del Programa de Caminos Rurales", Junio
2000.

26  Los caminos de herradura constituyen las últimas "venas" del sistema vial que permiten integrar a los
  caseríos y áreas remotas con las carreteras vecinales, departamentales ó nacionales.



                                                          94

desarrollo de los mercados, dinamización de las economías locales y regionales, y finalmente, un
notorio incremento en el nivel de vida de la población rural.

Sobre la base de esta experiencia, se contrató un segundo préstamo con los Bancos BID y BIRF
para el financiamiento de la segunda etapa de Caminos Rurales (2001 ­ 2006), cuyo propósito no
sólo fue consolidar las acciones iniciadas durante la primera etapa, en cuanto a mejorar la
transitabilidad de los caminos rurales, sino que además su objetivo principal estuvo orientado a
contribuir a la superación de la pobreza y el desarrollo rural y mejorar el nivel de vida de las
comunidades rurales en el Perú, mediante la consolidación de la transitabilidad de las vías
rurales, con participación financiera e institucional de los gobiernos locales, participación del
sector público, privado y sociedad civil, y con equidad de género.

Caminos Rurales II ha sido una respuesta técnica, económica y política para encarar los niveles
de pobreza que se presentan con mayor énfasis en las zonas rurales, buscando mejorar los niveles
de vida de la población rural, impulsando la descentralización de la gestión vial, el desarrollo de
las capacidades técnicas e institucionales de los Gobiernos Locales, en el marco de un modelo de
intervención con enfoques innovadores que vinculan las intervenciones en la vialidad con el
desarrollo rural, y son además, participativos, inclusivos y sostenibles. Su intervención en materia
vial se vio complementa con acciones de fortalecimiento institucional y de promoción de
actividades económico-productivas, poniendo especial énfasis en la sostenibilidad del
mantenimiento, el desarrollo institucional y la transferencia de la gestión vial rural a los
Gobiernos Locales

Esta etapa se caracteriza por una óptima ejecución física y financiera, sobrepasando las metas
trazadas inicialmente en la mayoría de los componentes, así como de sustanciales logros e
impactos viales, socio económicos y ambientales, con los consiguientes reconocimientos, al
haberse conseguido el objetivo principal previsto.

Sobre todo se ha logrado una mejora sustancial en la vida de los pobladores gracias a la
intervención en los caminos rurales (rehabilitación, mejoramiento y mantenimiento), que ha
devuelto la transitabilidad de las vías, ha mejorado la accesibilidad de la población a servicios
sociales básicos, ha mejorado la integración y articulación a mercados, y ha vinculado la vialidad
con el desarrollo rural bajo un enfoque territorial.


OBJETIVOS ESPECÍFICOS

Viales y Funcionales: mejorar y consolidar la transitabilidad de los caminos rurales y mejorar la
conectividad y accesibilidad de la población rural

Institucionales: ttransferir la gestión de los caminos rurales a los gobiernos locales, previo
desarrollo institucional y fortalecimiento de sus capacidades para lograr una gestión eficiente y
sostenible.

Financieros: asegurar la sostenibilidad financiera del mantenimiento de los caminos rurales con
participación de los gobiernos locales

Económicos y sociales: vincular el camino rural rehabilitado y Mantenido con la generación de
Capacidades locales para desarrollar Proyectos productivos y buscar complementariedades con
otros Proyectos de infraestructura económica


MODELO DE INTERVENCION

Caminos Rurales II constituyó una respuesta innovadora y creativa a las demandas más urgentes
de la población mediante la propuesta de un modelo de intervención acorde a la realidad del


                                                 95

ámbito rural, con peculiaridades poco entendidas y atendidas hasta entonces. Propuso nuevos
enfoques, procesos y proyectos, como la descentralización de la gestión vial rural, la aplicación
de procesos participativos en la planificación y ejecución de sus intervenciones, el enfoque de
género en algunos componentes y actividades del Programa, la promoción de proyectos
productivos mediante la Ventana para el Desarrollo Local, entre otros, ubicándolo como un
Programa pionero en temas complementarios y que potencian su objetivo principal: la integración
y acceso de la población rural.

Es participativo y generador de empleo en el medio rural; es sostenible desde el punto de vista
institucional como financiero; es descentralizado y complementario con iniciativas productivas
asociadas al camino; interviene en los departamentos más pobres, y las intervenciones son
planificadas por los alcaldes de una provincia, teniendo en cuenta el ciclo completo del proyecto,
desde la selección de prioridades hasta la operación y mantenimiento de las vías intervenidas;
utiliza tecnología apropiada al volumen de tránsito existente así como a las capacidades locales
disponibles.

Considera a la Provincia como ámbito de gestión del transporte rural, reconociendo su
jurisdicción y competencia, asegurando su compromiso con las actividades a desempeñar y su
apropiación de los objetivos del Programa; todas las actividades de inversión son realizadas por
TERCERIZACION: con empresas y consultores independientes locales y regionales; promueve
la generación de empleo por la mezcla tecnológica que utiliza, caracterizada por elevadas normas
técnicas en la rehabilitación que requieren el uso de maquinaria pesada, mientras que el
mantenimiento rutinario se realiza con herramientas de mano.

Es incluyente, por que incorpora a los sectores más pobres y vulnerables de la población a
mejores condiciones de empleo e ingresos sostenibles; promueve la equidad de géneros en el
acceso al trabajo rural (23 % de socias de las microempresas de mantenimiento vial constituidas
durante la segunda etapa son mujeres); es descentralista, en respuesta a la realidad del país y al
desafío que representa la diversidad de preferencias de comunidades con entornos físicos y
sociales muy distintos entre sí.

Impulsa la generación de capacidades en el ámbito de la provincia a través de la creación de los
Institutos Viales Provinciales (IVP), que son la organización especializada que asume la gestión
del transporte en su ámbito. Tiene un enfoque evolutivo, ya que la dotación de infraestructura
sostenible implica desarrollo institucional, cuya instalación y maduración conlleva a la
consideración de horizontes temporales amplios, de mediano y largo plazo.

Así, el modelo de intervención descrito, al incrementar la capacidad y recuperar la transitabilidad
de las redes viales prioritarias, genera los siguientes impactos: permite integrar al área rural,
reducir costos logísticos, promover la movilidad de bienes y personas, favorecer accesos a
servicios públicos y oportunidades económicas, desarrollar ciudades intermedias y apoyar el
desarrollo de actividades productivas y sociales que redundarán en la aparición de economías de
escala y aglomeración, es decir la creación y desarrollo de mercados.


METAS FISICAS ALCANZADAS

La segunda etapa se caracterizó también por haber superado las metas físicas previstas en
rehabilitación de caminos vecinales y mejoramiento de caminos de herradura. Una de las razones
fue el haber contado con otras fuentes financieras, dando lugar a logros adicionales importantes
orientados a potenciar las intervenciones en la vialidad rural, como se muestra en el siguiente
cuadro:




                                                96

                                                                        RESULTADO FINAL        EJECUTADO
                        CATEGORIA (1)                 Unidad de medida                                            %
                                                                           ESPERADO          2001- ABRIL 2007




A. Inversión
  A1 Rehabilitación caminos rurales y secundarios
       Rehabilitación caminos vecinales                    Km                3,660               5184 *         142%
       Rehabilitación caminos secundarios                  Km                300
                                                                             240                                 0%
  A2 Mantenimiento periódico                               Km                6,500                8,900         137%
   A3  Mantenimiento rutinario                             Km               14,525               15,774         109%
   A4 Mejoramiento caminos de herradura                    Km                3,300                3,612         109%
   A5 Piloto de gestión vial provincial
       Rehabilitación caminos vecinales                    Km                158                   158          100%
       Supervisión                                         Km                158                   158          100%
       Mantenimiento caminos vecinales                     Km                158                   158          100%
       Estudios de caminos vecinales                       Km                158                   189          120%
   A6 Piloto de transporte multimodal
       Estudios de caminos vecinales                       Km.               125                   227          181%
       Estudios de caminos herradura                       Km.                 31                   48          154%
       Rehabilitación caminos vecinales                    Km                125                   124           99%
       Mejoramiento caminos de herradura                   Km                  31                   48          154%
       Embarcaderos                                       Unidad               2                    0            0%
       Estudios complementarios : EISAR, PDPI, SEM       Estudios              2                    2           100%


B. Estudios y Supervisión
       Estudios de caminos vecinales                       Km                3,648                5,755         158%
       Estudios de caminos herradura                       Km                3,300                3,622         110%
       Supervisión                                         Km                3,960               14,084         356%
C. Fortalecimiento institucional
   C1 Desarrollo de MEMV                                  MEMV               120                   182          152%

* Se incluyen todos los contratos, se tiene 810 km en ejecución, se prevé concluiran en Junio.


Estudios de Caminos Vecinales: Se ha tenido un significativo logro en estudios, superando el
262% de ejecución en caminos vecinales y 16% en caminos de herradura, lo cual significa un
mayor número de obras en cartera y por ejecutar, extendiendo la ejecución del programa e
incrementando el número final de kilómetros rehabilitados. Asimismo también se presentaron las
dificultades más resaltantes, como son los adicionales de los estudios debido al aumento de
kilómetros, la ejecución ineficiente de los consultores y la demora en los plazos establecidos.

Rehabilitación y Supervisión de Caminos: La rehabilitación de 5,184 Km. de caminos
vecinales, mejoramiento de 3,612 Km. de caminos de herradura, mantenimiento rutinario de
15,778 Km. de vías vecinales rehabilitadas en ambas etapas, el mantenimiento periódico de 8,900
Km. de caminos vecinales, entre otros, han permitido mejorar las condiciones de transitabilidad
en 126 provincias, así como el nivel de vida a una población directamente beneficiaria
aproximada de cuatro millones de habitantes, principalmente de las áreas rurales del país. Se ha
logrado la rehabilitación de 4714 Km. en la segunda etapa, lo cual significa un 43% adicional a lo
programado inicialmente. En cuanto al costo por Km. Rehabilitado, se obtiene un promedio final
de 24.430 dólares, lo cual ayuda a optimizar la programación para una tercera etapa, con costos
reales.

Así como se tuvieron logros, se presentan dificultades. Entre las principales se encuentran el
atraso de las obras debido a la terminación de los estudios y la declaratoria de desierto en los
procesos, lo cual genera la ejecución en periodos de lluvia trayendo como consecuencia el
adicional de obras y mayores plazos de ejecución. Sin embargo, a pesar de esta problemática se
ha obtenido eficiencia en la ejecución financiera, habiendo solo un 2.76% de incremento en el
presupuesto de este componente producto de la diferencia de los adicionales y deductivos de



                                                              97

obra. Sobre este escenario, los concurrentes concordaron que este es uno de los componentes más
exitosos, logrando beneficiar directa e indirectamente un aproximado de 3.500.000 habitantes,
producto de los caminos rehabilitados.

Mantenimiento de Caminos: Respecto a este componente, se obtiene como resultado final el
mantenimiento rutinario de 104.835 Km. superando en 91% la meta inicial, y 8.600 Km. en
mantenimiento periódico de los caminos rehabilitados, sobre los 6.500 planteados como meta. En
el mantenimiento rutinario, destacan la formación de microempresas de mantenimiento vial, las
cuales generan puestos de trabajo para los pobladores aledaños a los caminos rehabilitados, los
promotores externos y monitores, quienes se encargan de capacitar a los IVP y realizar el
seguimiento del mantenimiento de los caminos realizado por las microempresas y el tercero, la
transferencia de los recursos a los Gobiernos Locales. En cuanto al mantenimiento periódico es
necesario destacar, que es importante su ejecución, ya que devuelve la transitabilidad inicial a los
caminos producto del desgaste propio del uso vial, lo cual se trata de amilanar con el
mantenimiento rutinario, el cual es perenne.

En este componente se presenta la problemática del cambio de modalidad en la contratación de
las microempresas, ya que se tiene autonomía para seleccionar y contratar personas no
calificadas, poniendo en riesgo la capacitación efectiva ya realizada. Para ello es necesario que
cada Gobierno Local, establezca claramente sus bases, y los procesos de contratación,
haciéndolos mas accesibles y claros a los microempresarios a fin de poder preservar el sistema
existente.


DESCRIPCIÓN Y LOGROS


CON RELACIÓN A LOS OBJETIVOS VIALES Y FUNCIONALES.-

"mejorar y consolidar la transitabilidad de los caminos rurales y mejorar la conectividad y
accesibilidad de la población rural"

La rehabilitación de los caminos rurales consiste en una intervención de carácter eminentemente
estructural que incluye la corrección de fallas mediante la reposición de la superficie de rodadura
destinada a adaptar la plataforma a las necesidades del tránsito, así como la construcción de obras
de arte y drenajes para asegurar una óptima transitabilidad. Comprende las actividades de
Estudios, Obras y Supervisión. El costo promedio en conjunto es de $ 17,300.00 dólares por
kilómetro. Se realiza a través de contratistas locales y regionales contratados mediante procesos
de selección de acuerdo a ley.

En cuanto al mantenimiento de los caminos vecinales, tradicionalmente y por muchos años, las
carreteras y caminos del país se caracterizaron por estar sumidos en el círculo vicioso de
"construcción ­ abandono ­ destrucción ­ reconstrucción". Las inversiones en infraestructura vial
rural desarrolladas por PROVIAS DESCENTRALIZADO, antes PROVÍAS RURAL,
modificaron sustancialmente este panorama hacia un círculo virtuoso de "construcción -
rehabilitación ­ mantenimiento", que se representa en el siguiente gráfico:




                                                98

Para el sostenimiento de las inversiones y la transitabilidad de los caminos rurales, el
mantenimiento es fundamental, ya que bajo las presiones combinadas del tránsito y del clima, en
especial en el caso de los caminos peruanos, expuestos a los enormes desafíos derivados de
nuestra condición de país andino, con elevadas pendientes y un clima agresivo, los caminos
volverían rápidamente a su estado inicial y el esfuerzo e inversión que se les ha destinado se
perdería, así como el enorme capital social generado en el desarrollo de la infraestructura.

Al garantizar la transitabilidad de la vía rural rehabilitada mediante el mantenimiento rutinario, se
cuida a la vez la inversión realizada y el patrimonio vial del país; es decir, se trata de tener un
sistema de caminos rurales bien integrado y fiable mediante la rehabilitación y mantenimiento de
éstos y los enlaces fundamentales que los conectan, ya sea a la red vial departamental o nacional.
Sin mantenimiento en el lago plazo, la transitabilidad de las carreteras se verán comprometidas y
con ello una gran cantidad de servicios que impactan directamente en los niveles de vida de los
pueblos se habrán distanciado de sus objetivos.

El sistema de mantenimiento vial comprende:
  i) El Mantenimiento rutinario27, que consiste en intervenir, inmediatamente después del
      proceso de rehabilitación, y comprende la realización de una serie de actividades
      permanentes destinadas a garantizar condiciones de circulación, seguridad y transitabilidad
      satisfactorias durante todos los días del año. Este tipo de mantenimiento tiene el objetivo
      de ejecutar acciones rutinarias28 y por lo general manuales para reparar el deterioro de la vía
      por el uso; es intensivo en mano de obra y utilización de herramientas y materiales de la
      zona, por lo que PROVIAS DESCENTRALIZADO ha diseñado un modelo que promueve
      la participación de entidades jurídicas, denominadas genéricamente "microempresas" de
      mantenimiento vial (MEMV), conformadas con                      pobladores de las localidades que
      interconecta la vía, propiciando su paso de la condición de beneficiarios (pasivo) a la
      condición de operadores (activo), con las implicancias en el empoderamiento de los
      pobladores y pobladoras rurales. El costo promedio de mantenimiento rutinario es de
      $850.00 dólares Kilómetro/año, dependiendo de la tipologización29 del camino.

      El mantenimiento vial rutinario desarrollado por PROVÍAS DESCENTRALIZADO
      descansa en cuatro ejes30:


27MTC ­ PROVÍAS RURAL Manual de Operaciones del Proyecto ­ MOP
28MTC ­ Programa Caminos Rurales: "Manual Técnico de Mantenimiento Rutinario de Caminos Rurales. Año 2000.
29Estudio sobre la Gestión del Mantenimiento ­ GEMA: 6 tipos de caminos en sierra y 6 en selva.
30MTC­PROVÍAS RURAL "Buena Práctica Gubernamental de transitabilidad de los caminos rurales sostenible."



                                                       99

       a) Terciarización de la actividad del mantenimiento de los caminos rurales: el Programa
            promueve y contrata a microempresas de mantenimiento vial que están conformadas
            por miembros de la comunidad aledaña a los caminos rurales.

       b) Participación financiera de los gobiernos locales en el cofinanciamiento del
            mantenimiento rutinario de los caminos rurales rehabilitados, para ello, el Proyecto ha
            desarrollado el mecanismo participación financiera de los gobiernos locales que
            asegura el financiamiento del mantenimiento rutinario de las vías rurales, garantizando
            por un lado, la sostenibilidad del mantenimiento rutinario y por otro, liberando de
            alguna manera la presión financiera que tiene el gobierno central en la materia.

       c)    Gestión del mantenimiento desconcentrado y descentralizado: el Programa desarrolla
            viene transfiriendo la gestión del mantenimiento de los caminos vecinales a los
            gobiernos locales desde el año 2003. Se ha promovido la creación de una
            institucionalidad en el seno de las municipalidades para que se encarguen de la gestión
            vial de los caminos rurales: el Instituto Vial Provincial (IVP).

       d)    Transparencia en el uso de recursos y rendición de cuentas: a través de la
            participación de los alcaldes y autoridades comunales en cada una de las etapas del
            proceso de rehabilitación y mantenimiento, así como en el proceso de transferencia de
            la gestión vial rural, se generaron mecanismos eficientes de transparencia y rendición
            de cuentas. En el futuro será conveniente incorporar en el directorio de los IVP a
            representantes de los usuarios de las vías rurales.

  ii) El Mantenimiento Periódico, efectuado dentro de un criterio también preventivo, está
       destinado a reponer el desgaste propio del uso de la vía al término del periodo de vida útil
       de la rehabilitación, teniendo como objetivo evitar mayores deterioros debido a una
       prolongada exposición al tránsito vehicular y a las acciones del clima. PROVÌAS
       DESCENTRALIZADO, en el marco del enfoque participativo, ha ejecutado parte de este
       tipo de inversiones con la participación de Municipalidades Provinciales, mediante
       Convenios; otra parte se ejecutó a través de empresas contratistas. El mantenimiento
       periódico se ha realizado a través de empresas contratistas31, a un costo aproximado de $
       2,700.00 dólares por kilómetro.

  iii) El Mantenimiento de Emergencia o Extraordinario, es el tipo de mantenimiento orientado a
       asumir las actividades propias de eventos de la naturaleza como huaycos, derrumbes de
       mediana a gran magnitud, entre otros. En estos casos, la intervención es de manera conjunta
       entre la Municipalidad respectiva y la Microempresa de mantenimiento vial rutinario del
       ámbito. El tipo de intervención necesario depende del grado de deterioro que con el tiempo
       sufre el camino a causa de la acción agresiva de los factores a que está sometido.

       Las microempresas de mantenimiento tuvieron acompañamiento profesional sostenido
       (técnico y empresarial) durante ambas etapas, lo que garantizó la ejecución del
       mantenimiento con calidad técnica. Se realizó con participación de contingentes anuales de
       Monitores, conformados por egresados y bachilleres universitarios, seleccionados de las
       Universidades locales . Los Monitores, desempeñan su actividad en el campo en contacto
                                   32

       directo con los socios de las microempresas, cumpliendo funciones de capacitación,
       asesoramiento, monitoreo y evaluación.


31El mantenimiento periódico también fue ejecutado mediante Convenios con Municipalidades Provinciales y Distritales;
  en total 91 Convenios entre los años 2002 y 2003.

32De las especialidades de Ingeniería Civil, Economía, Contabilidad y Administración de Empresas. Se celebraron
Convenios con Universidades locales, para que sus egresados, previamente seleccionados, desarrollen prácticas pre
profesionales por un periodo de 6 a 12 meses



                                                     100

En cuanto al mejoramiento de caminos de herradura33, éste consiste en trabajos de remoción de
obstáculos o restricciones y otras limitaciones para el uso adecuado de los caminos de herradura,
así como la ampliación de la plataforma, construcción de obras de arte y pequeños tambos ó
miradores para la utilización de medios de transporte no motorizados como peatonal, bicicletas,
triciclos, carretas y animales de carga. La comunidad beneficiaria aporta con el 30 % del costo
total mediante mano de obra no calificada y/o materiales de la zona. Se ejecuta mediante un
Comité Vial Rural que representa la comunidad organizada, con asesoramiento técnico de una
Organización No Gubernamental ­ ONG que opera en el medio promoviendo el desarrollo rural.
El costo del mejoramiento de caminos de herradura es aproximadamente $ 2,150.00 dólares
americanos, que incluye estudios y ejecución de obras.

Los impactos sociales del mejoramiento de caminos de herradura son enormes; no sólo
contribuyen a una transitabilidad más segura, sino que ésta está dirigida especialmente a los
sectores más vulnerables de la población, y por ende excluidas, como las ancianas y ancianos,
niños y niñas, mujeres rurales. Además, la incorporación de las mujeres como obreras del
mejoramiento del camino y con salarios en planilla, las empodera e incide, aún temporalmente, en
el nivel de vida y bienestar de sus familias. Por otra parte, la comunidad organizada, representada
a través del Comité Vial Rural ­ CVR, al participar desde la planificación de la intervención y
luego como contratista de la obra, se apropia totalmente de los objetivos del proyecto, aportando
la contrapartida local aún cuando es el sector más pobre y aislado de la población.

En la segunda etapa, se desarrolló el Piloto de transporte intermodal Ucayali, del cual se
presentan los siguientes alcances:

     · Trabajo en forma coordinada entre Gobierno Regional, Gobiernos Locales y
          comunidades nativas.

     · Empoderamiento de las autoridades y comunidades con los caminos rehabilitados.

     · Innovación en el diseño para caminos de vehículos menores.

     · Menor ejecución de Obras:

     -    Cambios inesperados del cauce de los ríos, incide en cronograma de actividades físicos y
          financieros.

     -    Dificultades en los contratos de estudios


CON RELACIÓN A LOS OBJETIVOS INSTITUCIONALES.-

"transferir la gestión de los caminos rurales a los gobiernos locales, previo desarrollo institucional
y fortalecimiento de sus capacidades para lograr una gestión eficiente y sostenible":

La descentralización de la gestión vial se enmarca en la Visión institucional de PROVÍAS
DESCENTRALIZADO que describe: "una red vial rural transitable e integrada a la red
departamental y nacional bajo responsabilidad de la gestión por parte de los gobiernos locales y
el desarrollo socio económico de las poblaciones de sus ámbitos jurisdiccionales", y en su
objetivo principal de contribuir a la superación de la pobreza y el desarrollo rural mediante la
consolidación de la transitabilidad de la red vial, con participación financiera e institucional de
los gobiernos locales.

La descentralización de las funciones del Estado, entre éstos, el Ministerio de Transportes y
Comunicaciones, y particularmente PROVÍAS DESCENTRALIZADO, está relacionada con las

33
 Los caminos de herradura son considerados como el eslabón final de la red vial rural que proporciona movilidad y
accesibilidad a los más pobres



                                                      101

demandas de la población y la voluntad política del propio Estado de comprometer a la población
organizada y a sus autoridades y líderes a asumir sus responsabilidades en los espacios donde
residen. Las Disposiciones Complementarias y Finales de la Ley de Bases de la
Descentralización, dispusieron que a partir del ejercicio 2003, se iniciaba la transferencia a los
gobiernos regionales y locales, de los programas sociales de lucha contra la pobreza y los
proyectos de inversión e infraestructura productiva de alcance regional, en función de las
capacidades de gestión de cada gobierno regional o local, disponiendo a la vez, la conducción del
proceso por el Consejo Nacional de Descentralización (CND) y su Secretaría Técnica.

En la primera etapa de Caminos Rurales y parte de la segunda etapa, la identificación y
priorización de las inversiones en caminos rurales fueron realizados por los Gobiernos Locales en
Talleres Participativos de Priorización sobre la base de ciertos criterios de elegibilidad34. Para
desarrollar la gestión vial descentralizada, el Programa diseñó un Proyecto Piloto de Gestión Vial
Provincial en la provincia de Arequipa, ensayándose la propuesta de transferencia de la gestión
vial rural a la Municipalidad Provincial y 15 Municipalidades Distritales periféricas, a partir del
cual, ha ido replicándose y mejorándose gradualmente al resto de provincias del ámbito.

Basados en la experiencia del Piloto de Arequipa, así como en el impulso del proceso de
descentralización y transferencia que como política de estado se impulsó desde el 2002, se
desarrollaron los mecanismos para la transferencia de la gestión vial de los caminos rurales a los
Gobiernos Locales, buscando alcanzar, no sólo objetivos viales, sino hacer sostenible la
transitabilidad a largo plazo, en el marco de objetivos institucionales y financieros más
consistentes.

El estado situacional del Piloto de Arequipa refleja una evolución favorable con relación a su
diseño original, ya que ahora se proyecta como Instituto de Infraestructura, del cual tenemos los
siguientes resultados:


           COMPONENTE                       UNIDAD        META            META
                                                         INICIAL          FINAL           VARIACION % VAR.

 ESTUDIOS DE CAMINOS
 VECINALES                                     KM.                150           189.05          39.05   20.65%

 REHABILITACION DE CAMINOS
 VECINALES                                     KM.                150           158.05          8.05      5.36%

 MANTENIMIENTO DE CAMINOS
 VECINALES                                     KM.                150           158.05          8.05      5.36%

En general, tanto la creación del Instituto Vial Provincial como la elaboración del Plan Vial
Provincial Participativo, se realizan mediante procesos participativos, con liderazgo de los
Alcaldes de la provincia y los miembros del Consejo de Coordinación Local Provincial35. El
Instituto Vial Provincial ­IVP- creado por Ordenanza Municipal, es una institución
descentralizada de las municipalidades distritales y provincial, con personería jurídica y
autonomía autorizada por su Estatuto y demás normas legales que le es aplicable. Es responsable
no sólo del mantenimiento de los caminos rehabilitados o construidos, sino también, de la
ejecución de obras, de la planificación vial, de la gestión para el financiamiento de las inversiones
viales y de las actividades de seguimiento y evaluación de las acciones realizadas en materia vial.

El IVP cuenta con un Comité Directivo presidido por el Alcalde Provincial e integrado por todos
los Alcaldes Distritales de la provincia, como máxima instancia de decisión; además, tiene una

34 Cumplimiento ordenado de requisitos previos

35Ley Orgánica de Municipalidades Nº 27972, Art. 98, establece que el Concejo de Coordinación Local provincial está
  integrado en un 40 % por la sociedad civil, además de los Alcaldes Provincial y Distritales.



                                                         102

Gerencia General como autoridad ejecutiva y administrativa, un Jefe de Operaciones, responsable
de las actividades técnicas operativas, dentro de las cuales se encuentra el mantenimiento
rutinario, periódico y de emergencia de la red vial de la provincia.

Aunque Caminos Rurales II inició el proceso de descentralización de la gestión vial de los
caminos vecinales a los Gobiernos Locales con el Proyecto Piloto de Gestión Vial Provincial de
Arequipa a través del Instituto Vial Provincial Municipal (IVP), el año 2001, este proceso se vio
respaldado desde el año 2002, a partir de la decisión política de impulsar la Descentralización del
Estado. Actualmente, han sido creados 134 Institutos Viales Provinciales en igual número de
provincias, de los cuales, 50 IVP se encuentran en condición de implementados y el resto en
proceso de implementación, y se han elaborado 124 Planes Viales Provinciales Participativos.

Aunque la institución municipal afronta todavía debilidades en la gestión institucional, el actual
proceso de descentralización de las funciones del Estado apunta a la reestructuración de este
Estado, dando cabida a demandas de autonomía y liderazgo planteadas por la sociedad civil, lo
que implica un proceso de reingeniería de las instituciones, particularmente de la institución
municipal, orientada al logro de una mayor eficiencia y una participación más equitativa en los
procesos de desarrollo local, que además favorezca y permita la participación estrecha de la
ciudadanía en los asuntos de la gestión pública.

En ese contexto, se ha realizado la transferencia de más de 13,870 Km. de caminos vecinales y
2,844 Km. de caminos departamentales a los gobiernos locales y regionales, respectivamente, y
ha logrado la sostenibilidad financiera del mantenimiento rutinario de estos caminos a través de la
participación financiera de las municipalidades y el cofinanciamiento del Ministerio de Economía
y Finanzas mediante transferencias directas a las municipalidades provinciales.

                                             Cuadro 1

       TRANSFERENCIA DE MANTENIMIENTO RUTINARIO                                Km.


    Gobiernos Regionales                                                              2,705.77

    Gobiernos Locales                                                                 2,844.37

    IVP Arequipa                                                                        158.05

    Provias Nacional                                                                    314.77

    D.S 017-2006-MTC                                                                  7,846.99

    TOTAL                                                                            13,869.94


Para garantizar la sostenibilidad de la gestión vial rural, no sólo se requieren inversiones en la
vialidad, propiamente; se requiere principalmente constituir y fortalecer capacidades locales en
diversos aspectos como: planificación, organización, administración y gestión, en los diferentes
espacios, públicos y privados, de la sociedad civil, encaminados a promover sinergias mediante la
participación concertada de los diversos actores sociales que interactúan en el ámbito de
intervención. El Programa ha obtenido también significativos avances en este campo, aunque aún
hay mucho por hacer




                                               103

        COMPONENTE                  UNIDAD           META          META
                                                    INICIAL        FINAL       VARIACION        % VAR.

MICROEMPRESAS DE
MANTENIMIENTO RUTINARIO                 N°                  340           601               261     76%

INSTITUTOS VIALES
PROVINCIALES (IVP'S)                    N°                  12            124                84    210%

PLANES VIALES PROVINCIALES
(PVP)                                   N°                  s/n            95                45    100%

MUNICIPALIDADES CON
CAPACIDAD DE ASUMIR LA
EJECUCION DE LOS                        N°                  12             98               112    933%
COMPONENTES DEL
PROGRAMA
DISTRITOS PARTICIPANTES EN
LA VDL                                  N°                  99            162                63     64%

  La descentralización de la gestión vial rural a los Gobiernos Locales es un objetivo estratégico del
  Programa orientado a asegurar la sostenibilidad de la gestión vial rural. Es un proceso gradual y
  progresivo que implica, no sólo la transferencia de recursos financieros y funciones, sino sobre
  todo, pasa también por desarrollar, transferir y fortalecer capacidades locales (capital humano),
  técnicas e institucionales, y desarrollar modelos de gestión vial institucional eficientes, que les
  permitan asumir con responsabilidad y eficiencia la gestión de los caminos rurales de su
  jurisdicción, garantizando la transitabilidad de los caminos rehabilitados.

  En materia de fortalecimiento institucional, se han logrado avances importantes, como el
  cofinanciamiento y financiamiento del mantenimiento rutinario por parte de los Gobiernos
  Locales, la transferencia de los caminos (13.869,64 Km. incluyendo Gobiernos Locales,
  Regionales, Provias Nacional e IVP Arequipa) , la formación e implementación de los IVP (50
  implementados y           81 en proceso de implementación), la formulación de planes viales
  provinciales (95 al termino de la segunda etapa), 98 municipalidades con capacidad para asumir
  la ejecución de los componentes del programa, 81 distritos participantes de la Ventana Local de
  Desarrollo, el desarrollo del enfoque de genero en el ámbito del proyecto y la formación y
  capacitación de 182 microempresas para el mantenimiento rutinario.

  Es de vital importancia para la sostenibilidad de nuestra labor, continuar con el fortalecimiento
  de las capacidades de los gobiernos locales, para la preservación de los caminos rehabilitados y
  de la gestión vial realizada en esta segunda etapa, para asegurar el 100% de la transitabilidad de
  los caminos. Para ello es necesario la sensibilización y cooperación de los Gobiernos Locales,
  respecto a la necesidad del mantenimiento de los caminos y la continuidad en la gestión de los
  Institutos Viales Provinciales para propiciar el desarrollo de sus capacidades, contando con los
  conocimientos necesarios y el personal debidamente calificado a fin de lograr una optima gestión
  vial descentralizada.

  Cabe resaltar, que existen logros sociales derivados de la ejecución del programa, lo que
  constituye el impacto socio económico, del cual podemos mencionar, la generación de 6.138
  empleos directos permanentes, 49.000 empleos directos temporales (obras), reducción de los
  costos de transporte en un 20%, disminución en el tiempo de viaje, aumento en la cantidad de
  vehículos en transito, mayor acceso a servicios básicos como salud y educación, facilitación del
  comercio con otras localidades, entre otros.


  Con relación a los objetivos Financieros:


                                                   104

"asegurar la sostenibilidad financiera del mantenimiento de los caminos rurales con participación
de los gobiernos locales":

En la segunda etapa, como parte de su objetivo institucional, PROVÌAS DESCENTRALIZADO
involucra a los Gobiernos Locales en la participación financiera del mantenimiento vial rutinario
(cofinanciamiento), bajo el sustento que los caminos rurales son su responsabilidad y
competencia, dado que los Municipios y las poblaciones a quienes éstos representan, son los
verdaderos "dueños" de los caminos rurales.

Esta estrategia tiene como marco legal la propia Constitución Política del Perú, Ley Orgánica de
Municipalidades, Ley General de Transporte y Tránsito Terrestre, así como la normatividad en
materia de descentralización, en donde se establecen las competencias de las Municipales
Provinciales y Distritales en vialidad rural, en gestión, construcción, rehabilitación,
mantenimiento o mejoramiento de la infraestructura vial bajo su jurisdicción.

Con este propósito, el programa diseñó una estrategia operativa de descentralización de la gestión
vial consistente en: i)Desarrollar una institucionalidad especializada en el seno de las
municipalidades provinciales que se encargue de la gestión vial de los caminos rurales,
promoviendo la creación de Institutos Viales Provinciales (IVP); ii) Planificar el desarrollo de la
infraestructura vial rural a nivel provincial, a través de la formulación de Planes Viales
Provinciales Participativos (PVPP), los mismos que constituyen instrumentos de gestión,
planificación y orientación de inversiones en materia de vialidad en la provincia; iii) Desarrollar
mecanismos de cofinanciamiento que garanticen la sostenibilidad de la inversión realizada en
infraestructura vial rural, y por tanto del mantenimiento rutinario; iv) Gradualidad de la
descentralización de la gestión vial de los caminos rurales, debido a la heterogeneidad en las
capacidades institucionales y técnicas de los gobiernos locales; v) Fortalecimiento técnico e
institucional a los Gobiernos Locales ­ IVP en gestión vial descentralizada; vi) transferencia de
conocimientos y resultados de su experiencia institucional, como el sistema tercerizado del
mantenimiento rutinario basado en micro empresas locales que son técnica y económicamente
viables y sostenibles, en la medida que los gobiernos locales y la comunidad organizada
participen en la gestión y financiamiento de los caminos.

En un primer momento, a partir de 2002, se desarrolló un conjunto de instrumentos
institucionales, financieros y legales, denominado Cofinanciamiento, con la finalidad involucrar a
los gobiernos locales en el mantenimiento rutinario de los caminos vecinales rehabilitados en su
jurisdicción. Este mecanismo consiste en un descuento automático mensual del FONCOMUN,
para cofinanciar los costos del mantenimiento rutinario, por un monto aproximado de US $ 300
dólares por Kilómetro/año. Este aporte se operativiza mediante la suscribieron de Convenios de
Participación Financiera para el mantenimiento vial rutinario, que al principio fue entre
PROVÌAS RURAL y las municipalidades provinciales y distritales, y actualmente, es entre la
municipalidad provincial con las distritales; el aporte del PROVÌAS DESCENTRALIZADO
ahora es asumido por el Tesoro Público (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas- MEF) mediante
transferencias directas a las cuentas provinciales.

La transferencia de la gestión del mantenimiento rutinario a los gobiernos locales se produce a
partir de la publicación de los dispositivos legales en materia de Descentralización y
Transferencia, como son el D.S. Nº 036-2003-PCM y D.S. Nº 088-2003-PCM, mediante los
cuales se da inicio al proceso de transferencia de la gestión vial y de recursos. En el aludido D.S.
Nº 088-2003-PCM, se dispone la preservación del sistema de mantenimiento de los caminos
vecinales basado en la promoción, capacitación y contratación directa de las microempresas de
mantenimiento vial conformadas por pobladores del medio rural, y por lo tanto, con carácter de
excepción y por un período no mayor a la duración del Programa Caminos Rurales que ejecutó
PROVÍAS DESCENTRALIZADO, en tanto se desarrolle los mercados de trabajo y las formas de



                                                105

contratación, establece la permanencia y continuidad contractual con las microempresas de
mantenimiento vial que venían realizando el mantenimiento vial rutinario a cargo de Programa,
autorizando a los Gobiernos Locales ­ IVP, a contratar en forma directa a las Microempresas ya
existentes o las que se promociones en el futuro.

Los esfuerzos del Programa se orientaron no sólo a las inversiones en vialidad, como ya se
mencionó, sino al Fortalecimiento Institucional, dirigido a reforzar las capacidades técnicas y
administrativas de los gobiernos locales, comenzando por una participación activa en el
cofinanciamiento del mantenimiento vial rutinario.

Actualmente, los IVP que han recibido transferencias del mantenimiento rutinario, realizan la
gestión del seguimiento y monitoreo al desempeño de las microempresas de mantenimiento vial y
desarrollan los procesos de selección y contratación de las microempresas, de acuerdo a las
normas nacionales, ya que ahora, el costo del mantenimiento es asumido íntegramente por
recursos del Estado. El Decreto Supremo Nº 017-2006-MTC dispone la transferencia directa del
MEF a las municipalidades provinciales de los montos para el mantenimiento rutinario que eran
cubiertos por el PROVÌAS DESCENTRALIZADO, habiendo logrado de este modo la
sostenibilidad financiera de esos caminos transferidos a los gobiernos locales.



CON RELACIÓN A LOS OBJETIVOS SOCIALES Y ECONÓMICOS.-

"vincular el camino rural rehabilitado y mantenido con la generación de capacidades locales para
desarrollar proyectos productivos y buscar complementariedades con otros Proyectos de
infraestructura económica":

Acorde a su objetivo principal y al modelo de intervención innovador del PROVÌAS
DESCENTRALIZADO, antes PROVÌAS RURAL, en la segunda etapa de Caminos Rurales, se
han desarrollado diversas actividades orientadas a vincular las intervenciones en la infraestructura
vial con el desarrollo rural con enfoque territorial.

VENTANA DE DESARROLLO LOCAL (VDL)

Es una propuesta de desarrollo local participativo con la población de los distritos rurales pobres,
articulados a un eje vial rehabilitado y mantenido por microempresarios locales, que cuentan con
potencialidades de recursos productivos y capacidades humanas para identificar, planificar,
gestionar y conducir actividades económico-productivas rentables y sostenibles.

Ventana para el Desarrollo Local se propone lo siguiente:

    a. Contribuir al desarrollo económico del sector rural del país y en particular de los ámbitos
        distritales articulados por ejes viales rehabilitados y mantenidos por Caminos Rurales II y
        las municipalidades distritales y provinciales en especial, mediante la coordinación de
        esfuerzos, recursos y capacidades institucionales para impulsar una dinámica económica
        sostenida en el ámbito rural, tal que favorezcan los procesos de descentralización y de
        integración de dichos ámbitos a la economía nacional.

    b. Contribuir con la generación de sinergias interinstitucionales entre las entidades públicas y
        privadas del país vinculadas al desarrollo rural, potenciando sus acciones y sus servicios e
        intercambiando experiencias para optimizar el impacto de sus intervenciones en el ámbito
        rural.

    c. Impulsar la creación y la implementación de mecanismos ágiles para articular y asignar
        recursos económicos, financieros, tecnológicos y humanos para el desarrollo y ejecución




                                                  106

         de proyectos productivos en el marco de priorización definida por los planes de desarrollo
         distrital concertado de distritos rurales.

    d. Constituir un foro de análisis y de propuestas para impulsar el desarrollo de los ámbitos
         rurales pobres que tienen potencial para desarrollar actividades económicas rentables a
         partir de sus propios recursos.

    e. Coordinar y prestar servicios articulados a la implementación de los proyectos productivos
         que se orienten a la calificación tecnológica y a la gestión empresarial competitiva de los
         productores y a la formalización empresarial de sus organizaciones.

    f.   Implementar un banco de datos de proyectos y perfiles de proyectos de desarrollo
         productivo y social elaborados en los ámbitos rurales pobres del país.

    g. Llevar un archivo informático de información económica, productiva y de mercado de los
         ámbitos rurales regionales y distritales con potencial económico productivo identificado.

La estrategia de intervención de VDL, enfatiza en la formulación de proyectos productivos,
creando condiciones para un desarrollo económico y social que a la vez que generen puestos de
trabajo e ingresos, incrementen la rentabilidad socio-económica de la inversión realizada en los
ejes viales rehabilitados y transferidos a los gobiernos locales, generando bienestar y abriendo
rutas al desarrollo.

El interés de VDL en la formulación de los proyectos productivos está en poner en el centro de la
atención del sector privado y de las organismos de desarrollo la existencia de oportunidades de
inversión en ámbitos de pobreza que cuentan con recursos económicos de diferente orden que
pueden constituirse, mediante el concurso de la inversión privada o pública, en actividades
productivas rentables que beneficien directa e indirectamente a la población de estos ámbitos.

En este enfoque el principal producto de la intervención de VDL en un ámbito rural pobre es
formalizar y poner sobre relieve las potencialidades productivas y organizativas de las
poblaciones para desarrollar actividades económicas orientadas por el mercado y el desarrollo de
capacidades locales para gerenciar recursos. En el trayecto a éste propósito se generan los planes
de desarrollo local concertado que sirven de marco orientador e integrador de las iniciativas
económicas y sociales identificadas por la población organizada. Los planes de desarrollo se
constituyen en instrumentos de gestión de los gobiernos locales orientando el uso eficiente y
ordenado de los escasos recursos del sector público

La propuesta de Ventana para el Desarrollo Local se complementa con el acompañamiento a las
autoridades de los gobiernos locales y organizaciones de productores de la población en la
canalización de sus perfiles y proyectos para la búsqueda de financiamiento y en la capacitación y
asistencia técnica para el desarrollo de capacidades de gestión empresarial y comercialización y la
formalización de las organizaciones de productores en un modelo empresarial que satisfaga las
exigencias de cada actividad productiva.

En la segunda etapa, la VDL ha desarrollado 81 planes de desarrollo distrital, identificando un
total de 845 proyectos, de los cuales, 665 corresponden a proyectos de infraestructura pública, por
S/.103 millones de nuevos soles (30 % está referido a infraestructura económica) y 180 proyectos
son productivos a nivel de factibilidad, estando 57 proyectos financiados y/o en proceso de
gestión; 17 proyectos se encuentran en ejecución.

PLANES DE INFRAESTRUCTURA ECONÓMICA PROVINCIAL (PIEP)

El Plan de Infraestructura Económica Provincial PIEP es un instrumento de gestión que orienta la
intervención pública liderada por las Municipalidades para hacer converger en forma articulada
proyectos sectoriales de infraestructura económica.



                                                   107

Asumen a los territorios provinciales como objetivo de las políticas públicas coordinadas
multisectoriales, y como unidades de planeamiento y programación. Parten de un enfoque
territorial que ordena las visiones sectoriales y favorece la articulación urbano-rural.

Actualmente se vienen culminando 7 PIEP:

         · Provincia: Vilcashuamán (Departamento Ayacucho)

         · Provincia: Huanta (Departamento Ayacucho)

         · Provincia: Tayacaja (Departamento Huancavelica)

         · Provincia: Azángaro (Departamento Puno)

         · Provincia: Leoncio Prado (Departamento Huanuco)

         · Provincia: Arequipa (Departamento Arequipa)

         · Provincia: Sihuas (Departamento Ancash)

Los PIEP se proponen:

       Orientar la inversiones para dinamizar el crecimiento.

       Reducir costos de producción y mejorar la productividad.

       Reducir los costos de transacción, facilitando la integración de actividades y espacios a los
       mercados y ejes de desarrollo.

       Mejorar acceso a servicios y elevar calidad de vida.

       Criterios orientadores de los PIEP:
         Priorizar por áreas geográficas: se trata de bienes públicos. Conciliar criterios técnicos
         y participativos con horizonte de largo plazo.
         Aprovechar el carácter estructurante de las inversiones en vialidad para potenciar a los
         demás rubros de infraestructura económica.
         Generar complementariedades y economías de aglomeración entre los componentes:
         vialidad, electrificación, comunicaciones, saneamiento y riego para generar impactos
         amplificados sobre el desarrollo local.
         Intervenir con criterios sistémicos o de redes (no en tramos aislados) a fin de beneficiarse
         de las externalidades y optimizar el impacto de los proyectos de inversión.
         Operar a partir de un tamaño mínimo de proyectos y obras para aprovechar economías de
         escala, reducir costos y mejorar los beneficios.

    El marco institucional de los PIEP es:

         Convenios entre Municipalidad Provincial y Sectores.

         Compromisos del Alcalde Provincial, los alcaldes distritales y responsables de los
         Componentes.

         Conducción política: Municipalidad Provincial.

         Conducción técnica: Secretaría Técnica del PIEP.

         Asesoramiento: Comité de Coordinación Multisectorial (representantes de los Sectores y
         de la sociedad civil).

         En el mediano plazo: institucionalidad de las Municipalidades Provinciales:
         - Transitar de planificación de infraestructura vial a infraestructura económica.




                                                  108

         - Transitar de Institutos Viales Provinciales (IVP) a Institutos de Infraestructura
         Económica Provincial (IIEP).

     Caracterización y potencialidades territoriales:

         El PIEP asume a las provincias como ámbitos del Plan:
         - Articulan distritos, ciudades intermedias y cuencas hidrográficas
         - Cuentan con una masa crítica de recursos y un tamaño suficiente para visualizar
         externalidades.
         - Permiten un manejo eficiente de recursos en escala local, evitando la fragmentación.

         La caracterización territorial se orientará a identificar las zonas económicas y ejes de
         desarrollo que estructuran la provincia.

         Se identificarán las potencialidades del territorio y las restricciones que impiden su pleno
         aprovechamiento.

         De las potencialidades y ejes de desarrollo se desprenden los requerimientos de
         infraestructura económica. Esta es una demanda derivada de la dinámica económico-
         productiva.

     Definición de Potencialidades: Recursos no utilizados o no adecuadamente utilizados. El
     aprovechamiento o el mejor uso de los recursos puede permitir generar un producto o riqueza
     adicional. Los recursos no son solamente naturales. Se incluyen el capital social e
     institucional, el capital humano y los servicios.

     La jerarquización de las potencialidades proporciona criterios para priorizar los proyectos de
     infraestructura económica. Los productos a obtener: (i) Caracterización y zonificación de
     territorios provinciales; (ii) Mapa de potencialidades jerarquizadas.

     La priorización y programación de inversiones resulta de comparar la demanda de
     infraestructura económica y la oferta existente en el ámbito provincial.

         El PIEP establece una priorización intersectorial de proyectos.

         La prioridad de los proyectos en función de la jerarquización de potencialidades y las
         condiciones sociales existentes en cada provincia.Ø La población organizada y los
         Sectores participarán en los procesos de priorización de inversiones y en la revisión de la
         consistencia técnica de los proyectos seleccionados.

     Producto a obtener: Programa de Inversiones en Infraestructura Económica Provincial.


ENFOQUES TRANSVERSALES:

Nuestro país cuenta con potencialidades y fortalezas, expresadas básicamente en sus recursos
naturales y humanos; sin embargo, la pobreza y exclusión social e inequidad, aún persisten en
nuestra sociedad y se manifiestan de diversas formas como la inequidad de género que se
entrelaza con otras formas de discriminación y exclusión, profundizando las desigualdades
sociales existentes, siendo más vulnerables las mujeres: niñas, adolescentes, campesinas, adultas
mayores, produciendo brechas y disparidades36 entre mujeres y hombres en cuanto a
oportunidades para acceder a los servicios, recursos, empleo, información y a las instancias de
decisión.



:36 Acuerdo Nacional, décimo cuarta política.




                                                 109

En ese contexto, el objetivo prioritario de la participación del Estado en la sociedad es el de
promover la igualdad de oportunidades para todos los habitantes a través de un mayor acceso,
tanto a bienes públicos como privados, optimizando el uso de los recursos disponibles y
concentrando su esfuerzo en actividades asociadas al desarrollo del capital humano, del capital
social, del capital institucional y del capital físico privado y público, entre otros.

Por su parte, el Programa Caminos Rurales II ha desarrollado varias iniciativas y enfoques
transversales destinados a promover una mayor equidad y participación en las actividades de
mantenimiento de los caminos rurales, en los caminos de herradura, en Ventana para el
Desarrollo Local, y en las acciones de descentralización

ENFOQUE DE GÉNERO DEL PROYECTO:

La perspectiva de género en Caminos Rurales II parte por el reconocimiento y voluntad
institucionales de entender la vinculación entre género, políticas públicas y desarrollo, y
emprender, a partir de este análisis, las acciones necesarias para atender los intereses y derechos
diferenciados de mujeres y hombres de forma equitativa y mejorar las relaciones de género entre
los diversos actores sociales que interactúan en el programa.

El interés por incorporar la perspectiva de género en algunas actividades del PROVIAS
DESCENTRALIZADO, antes PROVÍAS RURAL, surge a raíz de la comprobación de la
participación activa de la mujer en las labores de mantenimiento vial y en las iniciativas de
proyectos productivos durante la primera etapa del Programa (1995-2000). Se podría decir que la
mujer comenzó a hacerse visible dentro de un espacio tradicionalmente asignado a los varones
(en el rol productivo y en las actividades ligadas al transporte y la vialidad).

El Estudio sobre "Efectos del mejoramiento de los caminos rurales en las relaciones de
género"37 (1999) demostró que los beneficios del proyecto son diferenciados para los hombres y
para las mujeres, debido a diversos factores relacionados con la economía doméstica, la carga de
trabajo, las responsabilidades asignadas, y también con los valores y normas sociales y culturales.

En la segunda etapa (2001­2006) se incorporó la perspectiva de género en algunas actividades y
componentes del PROVÍAS DESCENTRALIZADO a fin de promover una mayor equidad en las
oportunidades de empleo e ingresos rurales. Con este propósito, se diseñó e implementó el Plan
de Acción de "Desarrollo de Acciones de Género" (2002)38, que comprendió un conjunto de
acciones afirmativas orientadas a asegurar una mayor presencia de mujeres, especialmente en el
mantenimiento vial rutinario y en el mejoramiento de caminos de herradura.

Se propuso una meta inicial de 10% y 20% en la participación de mujeres en estas actividades,
alcanzando al final un 24% y 25%, respectivamente, siendo a la fecha, el único proyecto de
infraestructura vial que utiliza este enfoque como estrategia para promover la equidad e inclusión
en el medio rural.

Una de las primeras acciones fue la revisión y rediseño de la guía de procedimientos para
conformar microempresas de mantenimiento vial con la finalidad de superar las restricciones a la
participación de las mujeres rurales en estas MEMV y también en el mejoramiento de caminos de
herradura. Otra acción fue la ejecución de Talleres de Sensibilización y Capacitación en temas de
género, dirigido a dos grupos de actores diferenciados: los Operadores del Programa y los
Operadores Viales Rurales. Asimismo, se realizó el acompañamiento a los equipos de Promoción
Social en la aplicación de la perspectiva de género, estableciendo Puntos Focales de Género


37Banco Mundial - CENTRO
38Primera Versión de Desarrollo de Acciones de Género elaborada el2002, en coordinación con el Banco
  Mundial. Se estableció, entre otros, Talleres de Sensibilización y Capacitación en género.


                                                    110

(Asistentes Técnicos de Operaciones) y el monitoreo y evaluación trimestral de los indicadores
de género.

La aplicación del enfoque de género muestra también evidencias de un proceso de
empoderamiento de la mujer en este espacio tradicionalmente masculino, posicionándola en
espacios de decisión, tanto en las microempresas como en los comités viales rurales, con mayor
énfasis en cargos de tesorera o vocal, pero con posibilidades de mejorar su liderazgo y
posicionamiento al interior de su organización.

Adicionalmente, se constata en ambos casos la valoración de la presencia de la mujer como
controladora social y responsable en las tareas asignadas dentro de su organización y como
interlocutora con capacidad de gestión ante la autoridad local para el visto bueno de las
valorizaciones mensuales, así como eficiente administradora en el cargo de tesorera ­capacidad
desarrollada por su rol de administradora del hogar- y la formación de nuevas lideresas
comunales. Todo ello con impactos en la familia, principalmente en alimentación, educación y
mejoramiento de las condiciones de vida de los hijos e hijas a su cargo.

Los resultados del enfoque de género se aprecian en el siguiente cuadro, con una participación del
23 % de socias mujeres en las microempresas constituidas en la segunda etapa; 25 % de mujeres
en los comités viales de mantenimiento rutinario. Además, se realizaron 28 Talleres entre
lecciones aprendidas y capacitación en temas de género, con una participación de 650 varones y
358 mujeres, en 1,008 asistentes

   FORMACIÓN DE MICROEMPRESAS DE MANTENIMIENTO VIAL
                        SEGUNDA ETAPA (2001 - 2006)

                                                   N° DE SOCIOS                %particip

    AÑO          N° DE        LONG
               TRAMOS         (Km)       Hombres      Mujeres        Total       mujeres


    2003           64         921,04         349          92          441          21%
    2004           50         972,21         302          80          382          21%
    2005           32         615,09         167          52          219          24%
    2006           46         983,20         204          77          281          27%
   TOTAL          192       3.491,54        1022         301         1323          23%

Estos resultados constituyen un activo que requiere ser transferido en esta nueva etapa a los
Gobiernos Locales - Institutos Viales Provinciales, como parte del know how y normativa que se
transfiere; más aún, por que nuevo contexto de competitividad bajo el sistema de contratación
pública, obliga fortalecer la participación comunal mediante un conjunto de mecanismos,
incentivos y procedimientos que faciliten esta acción.

Por otra parte, el marco normativo nacional actual favorece este proceso través de la dación de la
Ley de Igualdad de Oportunidades entre mujeres y hombres -Ley Nº 28983 y el Decreto Supremo
que aprueba las Política Nacionales - DS 027-2007-PCM, de obligatorio cumplimiento para las
entidades estatales y aplicable por tanto a los Gobiernos Locales, ya que se deben presentar metas
semestrales en doce rubros específicos, siendo uno de ellos el de igualdad de oportunidades para
mujeres y hombres.

PROCESOS PARTICIPATIVOS:

La participación es el proceso por el cual las personas y entidades que tienen un interés legítimo
ejercen influencia y participan en el control de las iniciativas de desarrollo y en las decisiones y


                                                111

recursos que los afectan39. En este sentido, PROVÌAS DESCENTRALIZADO impulsó varios
procesos participativos en las diferentes actividades que desarrolla; tanto los Gobiernos Locales,
que son los que tienen competencia sobre los caminos rurales, como los usuarios de los caminos,
comunidades beneficiarias y sociedad civil en general, participan desde diversos ángulos en las
distintas etapas del ciclo del proyecto.

Por ejemplo, los gobiernos locales y la población beneficiaria participan en: (i) identificar y
priorizar sub proyectos, (ii) promover la participación en el mantenimiento vial rutinario, iii)
fomentar y asegurar la contrapartida local en las obras de mejoramiento de caminos de herradura,
(iv) cofinanciar los costos del mantenimiento vial rutinario, (v) implementar los mecanismos y
procedimientos para la transferencia y descentralización de la gestión vial rural, vi) monitorear el
desempeño de las microempresas de mantenimiento vial, con participación de profesionales
júnior (monitores) mediante convenios de prácticas pre profesionales con universidades locales,
vii)promover sinergias para el desarrollo local.

El enfoque participativo en el mantenimiento rutinario tiene por finalidad involucrar activamente
a los protagonistas en la solución de sus problemas. Hablar de participación en el mantenimiento
vial rural no es sólo hablar de la intervención de los pobladores en el proceso de promoción y
conformación mediante Microempresas; es también referirnos a la participación real y efectiva
del Gobierno Local como responsable de la gestión vial rural en el ámbito provincial.

Así, la intervención del Programa se sustenta en la actuación convergente y sinérgica de un
conjunto de actores sociales, cuya participación permite lograr los objetivos institucionales dentro
de las normas acordadas con los Bancos cofinanciadores, para garantizar la sostenibilidad de la
gestión vial de los caminos rurales en el largo plazo, tanto a través de la inversiones en la
vialidad, como en la apropiación del camino por la sociedad civil.

PROVÍAS DESCENTRALIZADO apostó por un sistema de mantenimiento vial rutinario basado
en Microempresas locales, como un mecanismo de participación comunal en el mantenimiento de
los caminos rurales40. Esta estrategia tiene múltiples impactos positivos, especialmente en la
economía local y de las comunidades más pobres del país.

En el orden técnico, se asegura la realización permanente y adecuada de las actividades
necesarias para el mantenimiento y la conservación rutinaria de la red vial rural, el uso eficaz y
eficiente de los recursos asignados para tal fin, así como un mayor rendimiento en las cuadrillas
de trabajo, todo ello, con entrenamiento, capacitación y acompañamiento permanente, poniendo
énfasis en los aspectos técnicos, empresariales y legales.

En el orden económico, permite desarrollar mercados de trabajo en aquellos lugares donde estén
poco desarrollados o no existan, generando empleo directo permanente e indirecto temporal para
bastos sectores de la comunidad rural. El mantenimiento vial permite la reducción de costos de
transporte y tiempos de viaje, el acceso y movilidad entre centros poblados, el acceso a mercados,
y en general, desarrollo de mercados con la consiguiente dinamización de la economía rural, y
éste, desarrollado mediante procesos participativos, vincula al poblador con el desarrollo rural,
integrando no sólo a los centros poblados de la región, si no a nivel nacional, de tal forma que
tomen conciencia de que los caminos han sido construidos para beneficio de ellos y como tal
deben conservarlos.

En lo social, la participación del poblador en las microempresas de mantenimiento vial, desde la
convocatoria, promoción y selección hasta la operación del servicio, permite internalizar el


39BID. Libro de Consulta sobre Participación
40Quispe, Edgar "Mantenimiento Vial de los caminos rurales en el Perú basado en Microempresas". 2003




                                                       112

sentido de apropiación del camino (pertenencia), transformado su condición pasiva-dependiente
(beneficiario) en un agente activo de cambio (operador del mantenimiento); además, como se
señaló, los trabajadores de las microempresas se sienten identificados con las labores que
realizan, dado que más allá de su labor remunerada, se ven favorecidos directamente por los
beneficios tangibles que trae la mejora de la transitabilidad, al ser miembros de la comunidad.

Dado que el mantenimiento rutinario de las vías rurales implica uso intensivo de mano de obra
que no requiere de un alto grado de calificación, el modelo permite contribuir a la generación de
empleo. Los socios y socias de las Microempresas, muchas de ellas jefas de hogar41, son
generalmente pobladores de bajos niveles de ingresos, marginados del proceso de desarrollo
social y económico del país, con espíritu de trabajo y responsabilidad, que tienen en la
microempresa una oportunidad para generar un ingreso, con los consiguientes efectos en el
acceso a la educación y salud, principalmente, mejorando las condiciones de vida de las
poblaciones campesinas y rurales.

Esta estrategia participativa permite también eliminar los posibles intermediarios del servicio,
garantizando así, en forma directa y estable, una remuneración por el trabajo que se realiza, con
lo que se busca, en resumen, elevar el nivel de vida de los asociados y de sus familias al mejorar
sus condiciones alimentarías, de vivienda, de seguridad social y educación. Todos estos efectos
constituyen la razón del por qué hacer el mantenimiento vial rutinario empleando procesos
participativos mediante microempresas conformadas por pobladores de la zona, aunque existen
retos aún por resolver.

Dado que la participación ciudadana, como expresión del ejercicio de un derecho y un deber,
constituye un mecanismo estratégico para lograr un mayor bienestar y desarrollo de la población,
y es un elemento clave del empoderamiento42 de la ciudadanía, las Asociaciones Civiles de
mantenimiento vial, se constituyen en agentes de desarrollo local y contribuyen al
empoderamiento de sus miembros, ya que:

     -    Son entidades jurídicas con representatividad local y capacidad de gestión
     -    Poseen capacidades técnicas en labores de mantenimiento vial, que los posiciona como
          especialistas en el ámbito de su competencia.
     -    Tienen acceso a capacitación técnica especializada y sostenida
     -    Están sujetos a un sistema de monitoreo y evaluación tanto por parte de la institución
          como por parte del gobierno local,
     -    Por ser una entidad legalmente reconocida y constituida tienen capacidad de participar en
          convocatorias diversas, tanto de entidades técnicas viales como de organismos de
          desarrollo local, como las Mesas de Concertación Local, los Comités de Coordinación
          Local.
     -    Realizan acciones de proyección a la comunidad y gobierno local, tanto con prestación de
          servicios como realizando jornadas de mejoramiento de calzadas y otras obras civiles.

El modelo de microempresas rurales fue una respuesta oportuna frente a la inexistencia tanto de
agentes como de mercados de trabajo con las exigencias que plantea el mantenimiento rutinario
de los caminos rurales, bajo un esquema promocional para la creación de Asociaciones Civiles,
(microempresas) con participación de la comunidad. Sus principales fortalezas son:




41Al menos un 30 % de hogares rurales están jefaturados por mujeres. "Participación de mujeres rurales en las
  microempresas de mantenimiento vial". Aucahuasi, Nérida

42El término empoderamiento alude a la capacidad de cada ser humano de tomar decisiones por sí mismo y de definir
  prioridades según sus perspectivas y concepciones culturales.




                                                        113

                  La Cultura ancestral de las comunidades relacionadas al trabajo comunal (Ayni:
                  trabajo solidario, Minka: trabajo cooperativo) permiten una buena organización
                  para las labores.
                  Los integrantes radican en la zona de trabajo
                  Las relaciones interpersonales son fluidas entre sus miembros, por pertenecer a
                  una misma comunidad o comunidad vecina, con costumbres afines o similares.
                  Experiencia de organización local tipo empresarial en el área rural
                  Pobladores de menores recursos, organizados y capacitados, se incorporan a la
                  fuerza de trabajo en mejores condiciones, con los efectos en las familias y el
                  nivel de vida
                  El capital humano se fortalece en las comunidades rurales
                  El reconocimiento de estas organizaciones en el contexto local, como aporte al
                  desarrollo de la zona

Actualmente, los gobiernos locales realizan directamente, a través de sus IVP los procesos de
selección y contratación de personas naturales o jurídicas para el servicio del mantenimiento
rutinario. Las microempresas promovidas y conformadas por Caminos Rurales I y II cuentan con
las potencialidades necesarias y suficientes para ganar los concursos.

EL CONTROL SOCIAL EN EL MANTENIMIENTO VIAL RUTINARIO

Uno de los principios generales que rige la descentralización (Ley Nº 27783 Ley de Bases de la
Descentralización) señala que esta forma de organización del Estado es democrática, que se
desarrolla en los planos político, social, económico, cultural, administrativo y financiero.
Promueve la igualdad de oportunidades para el acceso a niveles mayores de desarrollo humano en
cada ámbito, y la relación Estado y Sociedad, basada en la participación y concertación en la
gestión de gobierno, destacando como uno de los objetivos a nivel social de la descentralización
es la Participación ciudadana en todas sus formas de organización y control social.

El control social o vigilancia social, es una forma de participación que involucra a la sociedad
civil a través de sus organizaciones sociales en fiscalizar y controlar las maneras de cómo se
ejerce el poder público, el acceso a los recursos, el cumplimiento de sus obligaciones y
desempeño de la gestión, con la finalidad de proponer cambios que favorezcan el mayor
desarrollo de la población.

Una de las formas de ejercer ciudadanía es vigilando desempeños y cumplimiento de metas sobre
los bienes y servicios públicos. Así, siendo las labores de mantenimiento vial rutinario un servicio
sobre un bien público, como son las carreteras, éstas son y deben ser objeto de fiscalización tanto
al interior de la propia organización, como por la colectividad usuaria.

Con este propósito, dentro de las actividades de mantenimiento, se señala la de control y
vigilancia al cumplimiento de las tareas establecidas técnicamente en las condiciones
contractuales, a cargo de los /las monitores viales, que se traduce en la presentación y
transitabilidad óptima de la vía. En este caso la función de control es de carácter técnico y sobre
parámetros técnicos.

Sin embargo, el control social ejercido por la colectividad usuaria trasciende estos aspectos
técnicos y puede incluir además el manejo de los fondos destinados a estas labores de
mantenimiento, toda vez que parte del dinero es cofinanciado por las municipalidades. Por
ejemplo, en el futuro pensamos que será conveniente incorporar en el directorio de los IVP a
representantes de los usuarios de las vías rurales.

La estrategia participativa diseñada por Caminos Rurales, vincula al Proyecto directamente con
las Municipalidades y con las Asociaciones Civiles del mantenimiento vial rutinario, e



                                                 114

indirectamente con la población en general, usuaria de los caminos. Esta condición de transeúntes
y transportistas cotidianos despertará una percepción adicional positiva si los caminos vecinales
están presentados en satisfactorias condiciones de transitabilidad, o por el contrario si las vías
presentan deterioros e inseguridades, desatará una corriente de opinión adversa. La percepción
directa, que se traducen en comentarios directos hacia las Asociaciones Civiles y sus socios, a
quienes conocen por ser también pobladores locales, sumado a la modalidad de contratación del
servicio, se traduce en una presión constante explicita o implícita por el usuario, tanto a la entidad
que desarrolla el mantenimiento como al gobierno local ­ IVP, lo que obliga a presentar una
imagen real de trabajo conciente.

Los mecanismos participativos que PROVIAS RURAL promueve en sus diversos componentes,
permite que la población local beneficiaria esté informada sobre su accionar en el espacio local,
toma en cuenta la capacidad de organización local, reconociéndola como un capital social
importante, y a partir de ésta genera institucionalidad al promover asociaciones civiles y comités
de mejoramiento de caminos de herradura. Estas asociaciones a su vez, se van posicionando al
interior de la localidad y se tornan especializadas por el soporte técnico que le Proyecto les
brinda.

EL SISTEMA INTEGRADO DE GESTIÓN ADMINISTRATIVA Y TÉCNICA:

Son numerosos los beneficios de haber logrado implementar este sistema paralelo, a nivel de
institución así como de usuario, para facilitar el acceso a la información y como herramienta
importante en la gestión del programa. Se propone, para una tercera operación, implementar este
sistema en los Institutos Viales provinciales con mayor capacidad instalada, técnica y profesional.
Para ello se prevé el fortalecimiento de estas capacidades a fin de poder descentralizar este
sistema y facilitar la gestión en todo el ámbito del proyecto.


INVERSIÓN

En la segunda etapa (2001­ 2006), se estima una inversión para el cierre por un monto de US $
178 millones, financiado por Bando Mundial (US $ 48 millones), el Banco Interamericano de
Desarrollo (US $ 50 millones) y por fondos de contrapartida asignados al Programa por el MTC y
por los Gobiernos Locales beneficiarios.

Se ejecutó con una inversión estimada de US $ 151 millones, de los cuales, US $ 50 millones es
financiado por el Banco Mundial, US $ 50 millones por el BID, según Convenios de Préstamos
N° 4614-PE y Nº 1328/OC-PE del BIRF y BID respectivamente, y US $ 51 millones por fondos
de contrapartida del tesoro público, asignados al Proyecto por el MTC y por los Gobiernos
Locales beneficiarios. La meta es rehabilitar y mantener unos 4,300 Km. de caminos vecinales y
3,300 Km. de caminos de herradura, adicionales, tanto en los 12 departamentos de la primera
etapa, como en 7 nuevas provincias: Chachapoyas (Amazonas), Sánchez Carrión (La Libertad),
Huancabamba (Piura), Yauyos (Lima), Arequipa (Arequipa), y Coronel Portillo (Ucayali)

Además se tuvo la intervención de las siguientes fuentes de financiamiento: Fondo Contravalor
Perú ­ Italia (S/.21'490,643.30.); Fondo Contravalor Perú ­ Francia, (S/. 4'950,000.00 dólares);
Proyecto de Desarrollo Alternativo Tocache ­ Uchiza (PRODATU), (S/.4'400,000.00); Países
Bajos (S/.4'069,132.17); DE VIDA (S/.4'022,627.80).


ANALISIS DE COSTOS

Inicialmente, se planteo un costo promedio por para cada tipo de componente, el cual ha ido
variando a lo largo de la ejecución del programa debido a diversos factores. Se ha determinado un



                                                 115

costo promedio para cada uno de ellos, como base referencial para el cálculo de los costos de una
tercera operación.

            COMPONENTE                       UNIDAD            SIERRA         SELVA         PROMEDIO
                                                                (US$)         (US$)             FINAL
ESTUDIOS DE CAMINOS                             KM.                    1,100        1,100              1,100

REHABILITACION DE CAMINOS
VECINALES                                       KM.                   13,860       35,000             24,430

SUPERVISION DE CAMINOS
VECINALES                                       KM.                    1,500        2,200              1,850

MANTENIMIENTO PERIODICO DE
CAMINOS (CADA 4 AÑOS)                           KM.                    3,000         3233              3,116

MANTENIMIENTO RUTINARIO DE
CAMINOS VECINALES (ANUAL)                       KM.                     700           700                700

MEJORAMIENTO DE CAMINOS DE
HERRADURA                                       KM.                    3,000        3,000              3,000



EVOLUCION DEL PROGRAMA

Existen numerosos aspectos, en los cuales a través del tiempo de ejecución del programa se han
logrado mejorar. A continuación resaltamos los más importantes:

                                  Sistema de Gestión Administrativa y Técnica
                VANTEC                                     SIGA                            SIGAT
                                                                              Sistema Integrado de procesos
                                                                              técnicos con los procesos
Sistema Monousuario con                   Se desarrollo todos los procesos    administrativos, se prevé su
limitaciones en su proceso.               administrativos en forma integrada
                                          multiusuario.                       implementación en el presente
                                                                              año.

                                          Inscripción del Patrimonio Vial
  No inscripción de caminos como            Metodología para inscripción de
            patrimonio vial                              caminos               Inscripción del Patrimonio Vial


En la Actualidad, no existe la            Desarrollar metodología en          Implementación del SINAIC, en

inscripción de los caminos vecinales      coordinación con la DGCF para       Gobierno Central, Regional y

como patrimonio vial, en ninguna          crear un Sistema Nacional de        vecinal

Institución del estado                    Inscripción de Caminos. SINAIC

                                 Interfases con Sistemas de Información Externos
       Doble digitalización de la
             Información                           Interfase SIGA - SIAF          Interfases SIGAT ­ Otros

                                                                              Se desarrollaran e
Se realizaba una doble digitación en      Se desarrollo e implemento          implementarán otras interfases
el ingreso de la información, en el       exitosamente las interfases con el  requeridas como la del SIGAT ­
SIGA y en el SIAF, lo que significaba     SIAF, en las fases de: Compromiso,  SEACE, SIGAT ­ SNIP.
una perdida significativa de recursos     Devengado y Girado, haciendo

humanos y tiempo.                         más confiable la información
                                          procesada.

                                                 Medio Ambiente

    Estudios de Impacto Ambiental                Ejecución de Obras sin
                                                      inconvenientes              Replicar la experiencia




                                                  116

                                        Se ha logrado ejecutar el 100% de     En la 3ra Etapa, se replicarás

Los estudios de impacto ambiental       las obras preservando los             las experiencias obtenidas,

han sido hechos por especialistas.      ecosistemas y coordinando con el      buscando innovaciones para

                                        INC                                   una mejor preservación del
                                                                              medio ambiente
                                                    Genero
       Incorporación de la Mujer               Acciónes Realizadas                 Replicar la experiencia
                                        Incorporación de un buen numero       Se ha confirmado el buen
El rol de la mujer dentro del           de profesionales a la institución,    desempeño de la mujer en las
programa, ha cambiado de manera         considerar un mínimo de 30% de la     distintas tareas en las que
favorable, ya que forma parte           presencia femenina, en                participan, se espera
importante de nuestra institución       mantenimiento rutinario, VDL, y
                                        mejoramiento de caminos de            promover mejor su

                                        herradura                             participación.

                                              Inventarios Viales

    Inventarios Viales Tradicionales         Inventarios mediante GPS           Conformación de base de
                                                                                          datos GIS
                                        Se ha desarrollado una
Se utilizan Metodologías, algo          Metodología, para el                  Desarrollar Sistema para
obsoletas para desarrollar estos        levantamiento de las principales      manejar una base de datos
inventarios viales. (método manual)     características de la red vial,       GIS
                                        mediante GPS
                                     Codificación y Registro de Caminos

        Caminos no Codificados             Metodologias de Codificación           Implementación del Sist.
                                                                                 Codificación de Caminos
Se identificó a través de los Planes    Desarrollar metodología en
Viales que mas del 50% de los           coordinación con la DGCF para         Implementación del Sistema
caminos vecinales identificados en      crear un Sistema Nacional de          de Codificación y Registro de
la red vial, no se encuentra            Codificación y Registro de Caminos. caminos en Gob. Locales
codificados por el MTC                  SINACREC



IMPACTOS DEL PROGRAMA

         Estudios de alrededor de 2000 hogares y complementariamente otros agentes, como
         comerciantes y transportistas. Poco más de 1,300 hogares fueron encuestados en ambas
         ocasiones. Encuestas tipo panel.

         Tanto para Caminos Vecinales como para Caminos de Herradura se consideró 18
         conceptos, analizándolos con el método de la Doble Diferencia.

         Los resultados sobre el grado de pobreza son discutibles ya que el método utilizado se
         basa en encuestas sobre presupuestos de los hogares, no considerando debidamente el
         incremento de la oferta de bienes públicos, muy importante en las últimas décadas.
         Asimismo, nadie espera que con una inversión de 400 millones de dólares se supere la
         pobreza rural.

         La empresa GRADE, ha desarrollando el Estudio de Evaluación Impacto Ambiental del
         cierre del Programa, el último informe se encuentra en revisión para su aprobación


IMPACTO SOCIO ECONOMICO

El impacto socioeconómico es probablemente el resultado más importante del programa de
caminos rurales, ya que refleja la verdadera mejora en la vida cotidiana de los pobladores, gracias
a un estudio realizado por cuanto en el año 2004. Actualmente se esta realizando un segundo


                                               117

estudio, elaborado por Grade, del cual tendremos las cifras y resultados finales del cierre de esta
segunda etapa. Tenemos algunos puntos generales en el impacto, así como cifras específicas
(cuadro 2), las cuales presentamos a continuación:

        Mayor dinamismo a mercados, mayores transacciones comerciales.
         Funcionamiento de microempresas de Mantenimiento: 429 de la primera etapa y 191 de
        la segunda.
         Empleo permanente Directo para 6,138 personas.
         Empleo temporal Directo para más de 49,000 personas (Obras).
         Creación de 352 Proyectos
         Productivos (para mas de 1,000 personas).
         Capitalización de contratistas locales
         Reducción de costos de transporte de carga y pasajeros en algunos casos al
        20%.
         En algunos caminos vecinales de Apurimac, Ayacucho y Cajamarca se han observado
        incrementos de tráfico vehicular mayores al 100% luego de ser rehabilitados.
         La presencia permanente de los microempresarios dan Confiabilidad ha las comunidades
        rurales y público en general sobre la transitabilidad
         Disminución en tiempo de viaje.

                                               Cuadro 2


      Conceptos                  Antes PCR                    2000                   2004
  (Muestra, 4 de 18)

                             Muestra       Testigos     Muestra   Testigos    Muestra     Testigos


 Minutos promedio de
 recorrido caminos               155.4         79.9         81.4      59.3        72.4        86.6


 Vehículos promedio a
 la semana                         24.5        33.2         46.0      43.2        57.6        45.8


 Promedio personas
 solicitaron consultas
 en dependencias
 salud                            1568         1765        1947      2060         2424       1929

 Personas en pobreza,
 %. Método del gasto
                                                            70.5      67.3        70.3        71.5




LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

        Programas de rehabilitación de caminos rurales no son solamente programas de
        ejecuciones de obras. Involucran una serie de modificaciones en relaciones económicas,
        sociales y políticas que deben ser integradas a la evaluación de los programas. El hecho
        de considerar esquemas como las ventanas de desarrollo local le dio un sentido amplio el
        programa para contribuir al alivio a la pobreza y permitió potenciar sus resultados.

        Esquemas estandarizados de planeamiento, ejecución y seguimiento de proyectos en
        unidades ejecutoras facilitan la implementación del Programa. El disponer de un sistema



                                                118

        único de planeamiento, ejecución y seguimiento resulta en factor clave. Esto permite
        Identificar costos reales, detallar la demanda y efectuar una priorización técnica. Esto
        facilita incorporar los ahorros que genera una ejecución eficiente para aumentar los
        beneficios del proyecto.

        La participación efectiva de los involucrados es un factor clave para el logro de
        resultados así como para asegurar la sostenibilidad de los mismos. Su incorporación en
        los proyectos desde la identificación y el diseño ayudaría en forma significativa al logro
        del propósito.

        La flexibilidad en los esquemas de planeamiento, permite un mayor campo de acción
        para una mejor toma de decisiones, lo cual efectiviza la ejecución de lo programado, en
        cuanto a la variación de los costos, plazo de la ejecución de las obras, etc.

        Se deben clarificar los procesos de adquisiciones y contrataciones en los Gobiernos
        Locales, a fin de facilitar a los postores el concurso a los mismos, lo cual rebajaría
        sustancialmente el número de procesos declarados desiertos.

        El fortalecimiento de las capacidades de los institutos Viales Provinciales, genera la
        conversión de estos en unidades independientes, capaces de autofinanciarse, a través de
        diversas actividades como la elaboración de perfiles, expedientes técnicos entre otros,
        buscando financiamiento adicional al del programa y desarrollándose fuera de el.

        Es importante disponer de un plan final, al término del programa a fin de identificar los
        puntos críticos de la ejecución, para poder implementarlos y mejorarlos en el futuro.

        Es necesario el apoyo a los Gobiernos Locales, por ejemplo con la transferencia de
        capacidades (cognitivas, técnicas y profesionales), la facilitación de herramientas de
        gestión (inventario y planes viales, inscripción y codificación de caminos), para asegurar
        la sostenibilidad del impacto del proyecto.

        Es importante atender la instrumentación de políticas a nivel descentralizado (gobiernos
        locales) La integración de género ha sido un instrumento útil para contribuir con el
        empoderamiento de los ciudadanos y ciudadanas rurales.


PREMIOS Y DISTINCIONES

Debido al modelo de intervención e impactos descritos, el Programa Caminos Rurales, ejecutado
por PROVÍAS DESCENTRALIZADO, se ha hecho merecedor a los siguientes reconocimientos
internacionales y nacionales:

        Banco Mundial (BIRF) el Premio a la Excelencia 2001 como uno de los tres mejores
        proyectos del mundo, al haber superado las metas del Convenio con los impactos directos
        las zonas pobres del país.
        Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID), en razón de contar con el mejor equipo de
        trabajo, en favor de comunidades y familias pobres del ámbito rural del Perú, año 2003,
        entre 25 proyectos de Latino América.
        ONG Ciudadanos al Día (CAD), año 2005, Premio a las Buenas Prácticas
        Gubernamentales, en la Categoría: Promoción del Desarrollo Económico a Nivel
        Nacional, debido a los impactos de a través de la        rehabilitación y de un sistema de
        mantenimiento sobre la base de microempresas, sostenible, tercerizado y generador de
        empleo en el medio rural, participativo, descentralizado, complementario y eficiente.
        Radio Programas del Perú, por la promoción de proyectos productivos mediante la
        Ventana para el Desarrollo Local



                                                119

                        Annex 8.       Comments of Cofinancier

                                 Comments from IaDB

                             Rodolfo Huici, Task Manager


La experiencia del BID en esta operación ha sido muy positiva, particularmente en los
siguientes ámbitos:

Evaluación del proyecto. El diseño del proyecto, al igual que su primera etapa, fue
estructuralmente correcto, a la vez que permitía suficiente flexibilidad al ejecutor para
adaptarlo a las necesidades de los diversos actores. Algunos temas que parecían
inicialmente altamente inciertos, como la cofinanciación municipal del mantenimiento,
terminaron convirtiéndose en unos de sus aciertos más significativos. Otro tema
igualmente relevante fue el piloto de descentralización, que superó largamente las
expectativas más ambiciosas.

Desempeño del ejecutor. PVD (antes PROVIAS Rural) demostró ser una agencia
ejecutora capaz, abierta a sugerencias internas y externas, manteniendo su capacidad de
aprendizaje, flexible e innovadora. Es la gran responsable de los buenos resultados
logrados y, con su liderazgo institucional, se consiguieron los objetivos mencionados, así
como la aprobación del Programa de Transporte Rural Descentralizado, que le dará
continuidad temporal y expansión geográfica la Programa de Caminos Rurales. Hay un
tema, si embargo, al que deberá ponérsele mayor énfasis, y es el de los aspectos técnicos.
PVD continúa aplicando preceptos técnicos (diseños de ingeniería, estándares técnicos,
gestión del mantenimiento) establecidos y mejorados en el programa inicial y este que
acaba de finalizar. Sin embargo, con la descentralización del Programa, nuevos actores
aparecen y, para ellos, el enfoque técnico de actuación es primordial. Este enfoque es la
entrada del Programa a los IVP y gobiernos regionales y debe hacerse hincapié en la
naturaleza técnica de las intervenciones, mejorar la evaluabilidad de los caminos
(duración de las obras, calidad del mantenimiento, oportunidad de poner el camino en un
mantenimiento periódico, costos y dificultades involucradas, metodologías de
intervención, sistemas de gestión, etc.) y el aprendizaje que se obtiene de la diversidad de
intervenciones. Esto implica que PVD debe cambiar su rol de agencia de ejecución a una
"agencia de inteligencia", algo que el PTRD plantea de manera creciente, pero que debe
profundizar en los aspectos de ingeniería.

Desempeño del Banco Mundial. El trabajo conjunto de los bancos continuó el buen
desempeño logrado durante la primera fase del Programa de Caminos Rurales. Para su
mejor comprensión, conviene dividir el trabajo en dos ámbitos. Cuando hablamos de los
aspectos técnicos, los equipos conjuntos permitieron dar una profundidad al Programa
que posiblemente de actuar de manera independiente no se hubiera logrado; esta
presencia conjunta es algo que las propias autoridades apreciaron. El segundo ámbito es
el de los aspectos fiduciarios, en particular adquisiciones. Aquí, las diferentes culturas
institucionales aparecen y, si bien ambas instituciones habían "resignado" ciertos



                                            120

aspectos de sus procedimientos, con vistas a permitir un mejor desempeño de PVD en la
ejecución del Programa, estas culturas diferenciadas volvían a aparecer en oportunidad de
las revisiones periódicas, sin tener en cuenta si las normas eran aplicables a las
particulares condiciones de contratación en ámbitos rurales aislados. Este tema debe ser
analizado con flexibilidad para evitar poner al ejecutor en posición de incumplimiento
con una u otra institución y, más importante aún, adoptando procedimientos que no
permiten dar adecuada respuesta a las necesidades de los gobiernos y comunidades
locales.




                                           121

               Annex 9.         List of Supporting Documents


1.  Project Concept Note

2.  Second Rural Roads Project; Project Appraisal Document; The World Bank; May 25,
    2001.

3.  Regional Transport Decentralization Project; Project Appraisal Document; The
    World Bank; June 15, 2005.

4.  Decentralized Rural Transport Project; Project Appraisal Document; The World
    Bank; November 15, 2006.

5.   Evaluación Económica, Social, Ambiental e Institucional del Programa de Caminos
     Rurales; Instituto Cuanto; August 2000.

6.   Elaboración de la línea de base del Provias Rural; Instituto Cuanto; August 2004.

7.   Premio a las Buenas Practicas; Provias Rural, March 2005.

8.   Situación de los Servicios de Transporte en Zonas Rurales del Perú; José Luna,
    2004.

9.   Análisis de los Servicios de Infraestructura Rural y las Condiciones de Vida en las
     Zonas Rurales de Perú; Javier Escobal and Máximo Torero, 2004.

10.  Peru ­ Rural Infrastructure in Peru ­ Effectively Underpinning Local Development
     and Fostering Complementarities; The World Bank; January 26, 2006.

11.  Roads towards Local Development; Elizabeth Dasso, in Thinking Out Loud VI,
    Innovative Case Studies on Participatory Instruments; The World Bank; Autumn
     2005.

12.  Rural Infrastructure (Chap. 12); Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge, in An Opportunity for a
    Different Peru, Prosperous, Equitable and Governable; The World Bank, 2007.




                                       122

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 35059

                      80°W                                                                                              75°W
                                                                                                                        75                                                                                                  70°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70

0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0°
                        0          100                 200             300 Kilometers



                        0                      100                      200 Miles

                                                                                                                         ArcadiaArcadia                             COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                    COLOMBIA

                                  ECUADORECUADOR                                                                                       Napo

                                                                                                     Corrientes                                                           Putumayo
                                                                                                                        Puerto Curaray
                                                                                                                        Puerto Curaray
                                                                                                                   Tigre

                         To
                        Machala
     Tumbes                                              Santiago                                                                                                                                Amazonas


                             To
                            Loja                                                  Pastaza                                                           IquitosIquitos
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CaballocochaCaballococha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRAZIL
    Talara
     alara                                                             Ayar Manco
                                                                          ar Manco                                                                                              Yavari
       SullanaSullana

5°S                                      SanSan                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5°S
                                         IgnacioIgnacio                      Marañon
             PiuraPiura                                                                                                                            Ucayali



                                                                                                         Yurimaguas
                                                                                                             urimaguas                     Tamánco
                                                                                                                                           amánco
                                               ChachapoyasChachapoyas
                                                                          MoyobambaMoyobamba
                                                                          Tarapoto
                                                                          arapoto
                         ChiclayoChiclayo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PERU

                                                 CajamarcaCajamarca
                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                          Cruzeiro
                                                                                                                                                          do Sul

                            Trujillo                                                               SantaSanta
                                                                                                   LuciaLucia
                                                                                                                                         PucallpaPucallpa
                                                                     Sihuas
                                                                     Sihuas                         Hualaga
                                 Chimbote
                                                                                                             Tingo María
                                                                                                               ngo María

                                                        HuarazHuaraz                                                                      Ucayali

                                                                                                             Huánuco
                                                                                                             Huánuco
10°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10°S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10



         PACIFIC                                                     GoyllarisquizgaGoyllarisquizga                                                                                     Purús
                                                                                                     Cerro de
                                                                                                     Cerro de
                                                                                                             Pasco
                                                                                                             Pasco
         OCEAN                                         Huacho           SayánSayán
                                                                                                                         SatipoSatipo                                 AtalayaAtalaya

                                                                                                              LaLa
                                                                                                              OroyaOroya                   Apurimac
                                                                                                                        HuancayoHuancayo
                                                                 Callao       LIMALIMA                                                                            Urubamba                       Madrede                             PuertoPuerto
                                                                                                                                          AynaAy                                                        Dios
                                                                                                             Huancavelica
                                                                                                             Huancavelica                                                               SintuyaSintuya                      MaldonadoMaldonado
                                                                                                                                                         QuillabambaQuillabamba

                                                                                                                                                Ayacucho
                                                                                                                                                   acucho                                               LanlacuniLanlacuni            AstilleroAstillero
                           PERU                                                                                                                                                        CuscoCusco            BajoBajo

       SITUATION AND                                                                Pisco                                                                               AbancayAbancay                                       Inambari
                                                                                                                IcaIca
    LOCATION OF PRIs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To San
AS OF NOVEMBER 2006                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Buenaventura

                                                                                                                                     Puquio
                                                                                                                                     Puquio

            MOST ADVANCED PRIs                                                                       Caballas               NazcaNazca
                                                                                                                                                                      AlcaAlca          CaillomaCailloma                                                                15°S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15

            PRIs WITH FULL CAPACITY ESTABLISHED                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                              San Juan                                                                                        JuliacaJuliaca                            Carabuco
            PRIs WITH BASIC CAPACITY ESTABLISHED                                                                                                                                                                                         Lago
            PRIs IN CREATION                                                                                               Antiquipa                                                                                      PunoPuno     Titicaca

            NO PRI                                                                                                                               Atico                           ArequipaArequipa                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                La Paz
            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                             DesaguaderoDesaguadero

            REGIONAL CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                          Mollendo
            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                           MoqueguaMoquegua

            RIVERS

            PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                      To                BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tacna
                                                                                                                                                                                                             acna                    Visviri
            REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Belén
            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                    75°W                                                                             To Iquique          CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAY 2007

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 35515

0°                        80°W                                                                                                    75°W                                                                                                    70°W                                                   0°

                          0               100         200                     300 Kilometers



                          0                     100                             200 Miles
                                                                                                                                   ArcadiaArcadia                              COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                               COLOMBIA

                                            ECUADORECUADOR                                                                                       Napo

                                                                                                               Corrientes                                                             Putumayo
                                                                                                                                  Puerto Curaray
                                                                                                                                  Puerto Curaray
                                                                                                                             Tigre

                             To
                             To
                            MachalaMachala
         Tumbes                                                                                                                                                                                               Amazonas
      TUMBESTUMBES                                                 Santiago
                                 To
                                 To                           A                                                                                                                                                CaballocochaCaballococha

                                LojaLoja                     MA                             Pastaza                                                            IquitosIquitos


                                                                                                                          L O R E T O                                                                                                                                BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BRAZIL
        Talara
        alara                                                                    Ayar Manco
                                                                                    ar Manco                                                                                                 Yavari
           SullanaSullana                                      ZO
5°S             P I U R A                      SanSan
                                           C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5°S
                                               IgnacioIgnacio    N                     Marañon
                PiuraPiura                                                                                                                                    Ucayali
                                            A                     AS
              20,96 km                       JA
                                               M                                                                   Yurimaguas
                                                                                                                       urimaguas                     Tamánco
                                                                                                                                                     amánco
                                                     ChachapoyasChachapoyas

           LAMBA-            ChiclayoChiclayo
            YEQUE                               ARCA                                MoyobambaMoyobamba
                                                                                    Tarapoto
                                                                                    arapoto

                                                                                  S A N
                                                                              M A R T I N                                                                                                                                                PERU

                                          10%         CajamarcaCajamarca
                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                     CruzeiroCruzeiro
                                                                                                                                                                      do Sul
                                                                                                                                                                      do Sul

                                Trujillo71,18    km                                 24%
                                                                                                             SantaSanta
                                                                                                             LuciaLucia
                              LA LIBE
                              LA LIBERTAD LIBERTARTAD                                                                                               PucallpaPucallpa
                                                                               Sihuas
                                                                               Sihuas                         Hualaga
                                           Chimbote
                                                                ANCASH
                                                                ANCASH                   25%                           Tingo María
                                                                                                                         ngo María

                                                                  HuarazHuaraz                     HUANUCO
                                                                                                   HUANUCO                                          Ucayali

                                                                                                                       Huánuco
                                                                                                                       Huánuco                                       61,68 km
10°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10°S
                                                                                                                                                              U C A Y A L Í
                                                                          14%
             PACIFIC                                                           GoyllarisquizgaGoyllarisquizga           P A S C20%   O                                                                 Purús
                                                                                                               Cerro de
                                                                                                               Cerro de
                                                                                                                       Pasco
                                                                                                                       Pasco
             OCEAN                                              Huacho            SayánSayán
                                                                                                                                   SatipoSatipo                                      AtalayaAtalaya
                                                                                 L I M A                                LaLa
                                               C A L L A O                                                              OroyaOroyaJ U N I N           Apurimac                                                         M A D R E
                                                                                                                                  HuancayoHuancayo
                                                                            Callao      LIMALIMA                                                                             Urubamba                         Madre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D E D I O S

                                                                                                                                                   9%                                                                de                           PuertoPuerto
                                                                                                                                                    AynaAy
                                                                                                                       Huancavelica
                                                                                                                       Huancavelica                                    C U S C O                                       Dios
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SintuyaSintuya       18%           MaldonadoMaldonado

                             PERU                                                                                                                                   QuillabambaQuillabamba

    NATIONAL COVERAGE                                                                                                       HUANCA-
                                                                                                                            HUANCA-                       Ayacucho
                                                                                                                                                              acucho
                                                                                            48,18 km                                                                                         21%                       LanlacuniLanlacuni          AstilleroAstillero
    BY THE SECOND RURAL                                                                                                         VELICA
                                                                                                                                VELICA                                                               CuscoCusco             BajoBajo

           ROADS PROJECT                                                                      Pisco                                              A15%
          KM OF RURAL ROADS REHABILITATED                                                                                 IcaIca14%
  xxx km                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P U N O
          OUTSIDE THE 12 INITIAL REGIONS                                                                               I C A                                                                                                                                             To San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BuenaventuraBuenaventura
          PERCENTAGE OF ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                                                 17%
    x%    REHABILITATED BY THE PROJECT                                                                                                         Puquio
                                                                                                                                               Puquio
                                                                                                               Caballas               NazcaNazca                                                                                         13%                                            15°S
          REGIONS WHERE THE PROJECT HAS BEEN                                                                                                      YACUCHO       APURIMAC             AbancayAbancay                                        Inambari




                                                                                                                                                                                     AlcaAlca          CaillomaCailloma
          IMPLEMENTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                        San Juan                                                                                             JuliacaJuliaca                          CarabucoCarabuco
          PROVINCES WHERE THE PROJECT HAS                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lago
          INTERVENED ON A PILOT BASIS                                                                                                                               A R E Q U I P A
                                                                                                                                     Antiquipa                                                                                         PunoPuno     Titicaca
                                                                                                                                                                                                      158,05 km
          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                        Atico                              ArequipaArequipa                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             La Paz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             La Paz
          REGIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DesaguaderoDesaguadero
          NATIONAL CAPITAL

          RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                       Mollendo      MoqueguaMoquegua
          MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                         MOQUEGUA                                       T A C N A
          RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To                BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Visviri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    isviri
          PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                             Tacna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            acna

          REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Belén
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Belén

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To Iquique         CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHILE
          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                75°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAY 2007

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 35516
                             PERU                                                                                                  75°W                                                                                              70°W
          LOCATION OF THE
      LOCAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                           0             100                  200          300 Kilometers
      WINDOW INITIATIVES
        1     PROVINCES WHERE THE LDW HAS BEEN                                                                                                    0                         100                     200 Miles

              IMPLEMENTED*

              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                         0°                                                                                                                                                                                   0°

              REGIONAL CAPITALS

              NATIONAL CAPITAL

              RIVERS                                                                                                               ArcadiaArcadia                            COLOMBIACOLOMBIA
              PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                             ECUADORECUADOR
              REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                Napo
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
           * The circled numbers correspond to                                                                                                                                       Putumayo
                                                                                                                                   Puerto Curaray
                                                                                                                                   Puerto Curaray
           the list of provinces in the table.                                                                    Corrientes  Tigre

                                            80°W
                           Tumbes                                      Santiago                                                                                                                     Amazonas
                                                                                                 Pastaza                                                      IquitosIquitos
                                                                                                                                                                                                       CaballocochaCaballococha


                          Talara
                          alara                                                     Ayar Manco
                                                                                     yar Manco                                                                                           Yavari
                             SullanaSullana                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRAZILBRAZIL
 5°S                                                       San
                                                           San                                                                                                                                                                                                       5°S
                                                           Ignacio
                                                           Ignacio                        Marañon
                                   PiuraPiura                                                                                                                Ucayali



                                                                 18               MoyobambaMoyobamba               Yurimaguas
                                                                                                                        rimaguas                     Tamánco
                                                                                                                                                     amánco

                                                          Chachapoyas
                                                          Chachapoyas                                   2
                                                                                       Tarapoto
                                                                                         rapoto
                                               Chiclayo
                                               Chiclayo                       19                                           1
                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                4                                                                                                                   PERU

                                                                 Cajamarca
                                                                 Cajamarca



                                                  Trujillo                                     Hualaga
                                                                                                                 Santa
                                                                                                                 Santa
                                                                                                                 Lucia
                                                                                                                 Lucia                             Pucallpa
                                                                                                                                                   Pucallpa
                                                                                  Sihuas
                                                                                  Sihuas

                                                       Chimbote                                                   13
                                                                                                                       Tingo María
                                                                                                                         ingo María
                                                                                    17                                                              Ucayali
                    PACIFIC                                          HuarazHuaraz                               12
10°S                                                                                   Huánuco
                                                                                       Huánuco                     14                                                                                                                                               10°S
                    OCEAN                                                                                       15                 16

                                                                                  GoyllarisquizgaGoyllarisquizga                                                                                   Purús
                                                                                                                  Cerro de
                                                                                                                  Cerro de
                                                                   Huacho            SayánSayán                       Pasco
                                                                                                                      Pasco         9                                            AtalayaAtalaya

                                                                                                                         11         SatipoSatipo
                                                                                                                  LaLa
                                                                                                        OroyaOroya                                 10
                                                                                                                             5       6               Apurimac

                                                                               Callao                                               HuancayoHuancayo
                                                                                           LIMALIMA                                                                          Urubamba
                                                                                                                              7                                                                      Madre
                                                                                                                                   8    21                                                                       de                        PuertoPuerto
                                                                                                                                                    Ay a
                                                                                                                                                    Ayn                                                            Dios
                                                                                                                      Huancavelica
                                                                                                                      Huancavelica                                                                 SintuyaSintuya                    MaldonadoMaldonado
                                                                 NB OF DISTRITAL                                                                                 QuillabambaQuillabamba
      PROVINCE     NB OF PROJECTS AT A NB OF PROJECTS WITH        PARTICIPATORY
       NAMES      PRE-FEASIBILITY LEVEL        FINANCING                                                                                                Ayacucho
                                                                                                                                                             acucho
                                                               DEVELOPMENT PLANS                                                                                                                                  LanlacuniLanlacuni        AstilleroAstillero
                                                                                                                                                                                                 CuscoCusco            BajoBajo

 1 SAN MARTÍN              6                      15                     7                         Pisco                                                                           AbancayAbancay                                     Inambari
 2 LAMAS                   8                      18                     4                                                  Ica
                                                                                                                            Ica
 3 EL DORADO               3                       8                     0
 4 PICOTA                  3                       6                     0                                                                                           20
 5 JAUJA                   3                       6                     3
                                                                                                                                                Puquio
                                                                                                                                                Puquio
 6 CONCEPCÍON              8                      16                   12                                         Caballas
 7 CHUPACA                                                                                                                             NazcaNazca
                           4                      11                   10                                                                                                        AlcaAlca         CaillomaCailloma                                                  15°S

 8 HUANCAYO                8                      16                     4
                                                                                                                         San Juan                                                                                      JuliacaJuliaca
 9 CHANCHAMAYO             3                      11                     4
10 SATIPO                  1                       2                     7                                                                                                                                                                     Lago
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Titicaca
11 TARMA                   2                       4                     0                                                           Antiquipa                                                                                 PunoPuno
12 HUANUCO                 6                      12                     2                                                                                 Atico                          Arequipa
                                                                                                                                                                                          Arequipa
13 LEONCIO PRADO           6                      12                     2
14 PACHITEA                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DesaguaderoDesaguadero
                           4                       8                     2
15 AMBO                    2                       3                     2
16 OXAPAMPA                2                       4                     0                                                                                                           Mollendo    Moquegua
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Moquegua
17 HUARI                   6                      12                     0                                                                                                                                                                        BOLIVIABOLIVIA
18 UTCUBAMBA               1                       2                     0
19 CHACHAPOYAS             3                       6                     0
20 AYMARAES                3                       6                     0                                                                                                                                            Ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tacna
21 TAYACAJA                0                       3                     0                                                         75°W                                                                                                   CHILECHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAY 2007

