Docramt of
The World Bank
FOR OmaCAL USE ONLY
RePort No. 13761
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1794-SO)
NOVEMBER 29, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Somali Shilling (So. Sh)               = 100 Cents
US$1.00 (at appraisal - Sept. 1986)    = So.Sh. 83.00 (official)
= So.Sh. 136.00 (market) US$1.00 (at
suspension - Jan. 1991) =
US$1.00 (at ICR stage - October 1994)    = So. Sh. 3,287
WEIGHTS & MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)                  = 10,000 m2
I Square Km                     = 100 ha
1 Metric Ton                    = 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
AF2AE   -  Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
AfDB    -   African Development Bank
AFMET  -   Agricultural, Farm management, Extension and Training Project
CP      -   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
DCA     -   Development Credit Agreement
DOR    -   Directorate of Research (of MOA)
FEA      -   Field Extension Assistants
GOS    -   Government of Somalia
ICR     -   Implementation Completion Report
IDA      -   International Development Association (of the World Bank)
MOA    -   Ministry of Agriculture
PMU    -   Project Management Unit
SAEP   -   Second Agricultural Extension Project
SAR     -   Staff Appraisal Report
TA       -   Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
GOS          January 1 - December 31
IDA          July 1  - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1794 - SO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P R E F A C E  ...............................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .............................................. ii
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...............................................                     1
A.   O BJECTIV ES   .........................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .........................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ....................................4
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....................                  ....................5
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ........................................                                  5
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .........................................6
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .........................................7
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .........................................7
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ......................,. .. .,.7
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ........................                    ..9
APPENDICES
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1794 - SO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural
Extension Project (SAEP) in Somalia, for which Credit 1794 - SO in the amount of SDRIo. 1
million was approved on June 9, 1987 and made effective on September 28, 1987.
The Credit was never formally closed because of the civil war in Somalia which forced
project operations to be suspended. SDR5.2 million equivalent to US$6.9 million was disbursed,
and the last disbursenment took place on January 25, 1991. Co-financing for the project was
provided by the African Development Bank (AfDB).
The ICR was prepared by the staff of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP)
and the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division (AF2AE), Eastern Africa Region, and
reviewed by Mrs. S. Ganguly, Division Chief, AF2AE, and Mr. S. Agarwal, Project Advisor,
AF2. In view of the absence of government authority in Somalia, comments on the ICR could not
be sought from the Borrower. Comments from AfDB have not been received.
As it was not possible to visit the country, preparation of this ICR was carried out as a
desk review in Washington, on the basis of the materials in the project files and discussions with
Bank staff who were involved with the project.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1794 - SO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    At the time of project formulation in 1986/87, over 30 percent of the total International
Development Association's (IDA) lending to Somalia went to agriculture. On-going projects
included the North West Agricultural Development (Second Phase) (Cr. 1538-SO), Bay Region
Agricultural Development (Cr. 972-SO), Central Rangelands (Cr. 906-SO), and the Agricultural
Farm Management, Extension and Training Project (Cr. 905-SO). These projects covered crop
and livestock activities and sought to deliver, in the nroject areas, a range of services including
extension, input supplies, water and related infrastructure as well as to increase adaptive research,
small scale irrigation, and soil and water conservation works.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the Second Agricultural Extension Project (SAEP) were to increase
agricultural production and farmers' incomes through supporting activities initiated under the
preceding IDA financed Agricultural Farm Management, Extension and Training (AFMET)
Project (Cr. 905 - SO), as well as supporting institution building in agricultural research. The
project had four components, namely: support to the Project Head Office; strengthening field
extension organization (increasing extension coverage from 125,000 to about 158,000 farm
families or about 75 percent of all farm families in the operational area); training; and, agricultural
research. Total project costs were estimated at US$26.7 million.
3.    To assist the project attain its objectives, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
included special covenants for procurement of goods and services; project implementation and
management; and financial recording and reporting.
4.    The objectives of the project were clear and realistic. As it was a follow -on operation to
the AFMET project, SAEP had the benefit of the latter's successes and failures, as well as lessons



- iii -
of experience. The project's objective of extending the coverage of extension services to a further
33,000 farm families, was feasible given the intended 7 year implementation period of the project
and an expanded geographical coverage. Project risks were realistically acknowledged, although
the specter of civil war a few years down the road could not have been foreseen.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Following Board approval in September 1987, the project got off to a promising start.
The formalization of a collaborative arrangement between the Directorate of Research (DOR) and
the Somali extension service, helped facilitate project implementation. However, by 1990, the
security situation in Somalia began to deteriorate. The insecurity eventually spread to most parts
of the country, culminating into a full blown civil war which resulted in the ouster of the
Government in January 1991 and the cessation of project activities. Over its short implementation
period, the project managed to distribute improved varieties of wheat and sorghum as well as
develop planting and weeding equipment, all of which contributed to a significant increase in crop
production, estimated at 6 percent per annum. The project's objectives of increasing farm family
incomes as a result of increased agricultural output were therefore partially - and temporarily -
achieved. The institutional objectives were also only partially achieved. There were delays in
recruiting TA for training and research assignments. With the outbreak of hostilities, the
expatriate consultants left the country. The civil works program was nearly completed but most
of the physical infrastructure built by the project has reportedly been destroyed during the war.
The vehicles and equipment procured by the project have been destroyed or looted. The project
offered short and long-term external training to about 130 people. An unspecified number were
trained locally: on-the-job or in local institutions. Many of the trainees have either left the country
or are dispersed and are unable to perform their research and extension activities because of the
war. Although, in face of the protracted instability, the activities promoted by the project could
not be sustained, its key agricultural research and extension initiatives can perhaps be revived by
assembling some of the former project staff, upon the return of political stability in the country.
6.      Project costs amounted to an estimated US$19.4 million as against the appraisal
estimate of US$26.7 million. The large shortfall is attributable to the fact that project operations
were prematurely halted, lasting only three years, as compared to seven years as originally
planned. About SDR5.2 million or 51 percent of the IDA Credit was disbursed. The US$10.4
million AfDB loan was fully disbursed, in spite of a temporary suspension of financing by AfDB.
GOS contribution is estimated to have been about US$2. I million or 58 percent of the appraisal
estimate.
7.      Overall project performance was adversely affected by the civil strife. Not only did this
result in impairing project implementation in many areas, but also led to project operations being
abandoned altogether in 1991. Performance was also negatively affected by the changes in top
project management in the first six months of the project; key decisions could not be taken and



- Iv -
plans and strategies for future project implementation could not be developed early on.
Additionally, project implementation suffered from changes in senior extension and training staff
cadres, and delays in recruiting TA. However, the change in project management was short-
lived. The original project manager was reinstated, and proved to be competent and dynamic.
Once appropriate staffing arrangements were in place, the project was able to make good
progress. In fact, GOS nominated SAEP as the only outstanding development project in 1990,
(this honor was bestowed on the project by a selection committee in the Office of the President,
as a part of an annual exercise, wherein the committee identified certain exceptional agricultural
development projects. These projects were officially recognized during Farmers' Week). In this
connection, the substantial efforts of the project management team, particularly the dynamism of
the Project Manager, which helped move the project forward, should be noted. On its part, GOS
showed unwavering commitment to the project, virtually meeting all its local currency financial
obligations. However, the DCA had to be amended about an year after project effectiveness, as
Government had difficulty in meeting its foreign exchange commitments (due to its inability to
obtain adequate foreign exchange resources).
8.    Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the project cycle. The supervision of the
project was particularly good in terms of staff mix, continuity, advice offered to the Borrower,
and reporting. There was however, inadequate coordination between AfDB and IDA in oversight
of the project, and AfDB staff could not participate in joint project supervision missions. The
Borrower's performance was satisfactory, complying with most of the legal covenants, adequately
funding the project and showing continued commitment to it. However, in spite of a promising
start and the good-will shown by the parties to the project, its final outcome is unsatisfactory
because of the civil strife in the country which terminated project operations mid-stream. In view
of the unstable socio-political situation in Somalia, the sustainability of initiatives supported under
the project is highly unlikely.
Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    In view of the current insecurity and political instability in the country, there are no plans
for future operations. Upon the return to normalcy, SAEP will most likely be revisited and its
experiences sought as an input into a program to rescucitate Somalia's agricultural research and
extension services.
10.   The major lessons learned over the short duration of the project are as follows:
(i)    Collaborative arrangements between key agencies involved in the execution
of a project should be worked out at appraisal, or their finalization should be a
condition for Credit/Loan effectiveness. In projects where two or more
implementing agencies/ institutions are involved, the success of the intervention
will greatly depend upon the level of cooperation and collaboration between these



- v -
institutions. A Memorandum of Understanding between the Directorate of
Research and the Somali extension service, formalizing the working arrangements
and linkages between the two institutions greatly improved the collaboration
between extension and research services. SAEP benefited from this collaborative
arrangement, which greatly facilitated its implementation.
(ii)   The project financing plan should carefully evaluate Government's ability to
meet its counterpart funding requirements. In particular, the foreign exchange
commitments to be shouldered by the Government should be realistically assessed
at appraisal, prior to finalizing the financing plan. While GOS was fully committed
to the project, and met its local currency commitments to the project in a fairly
regular manner, it could not readily raise the foreign exchange required to finance
the project costs incurred in foreign currencies. (Some 25 percent of total GOS
contribution was planned to go towards meeting foreign exchange costs). The
DCA therefore, had to be amended as early as one year after project effectiveness,
so that IDA could finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange required for
meeting operating costs under the training and extension components of the
project.
(iii)   A key lesson which emerges from this project is that, arrangements for
collaboration between the co-financiers in areas such as joint supervision of the
project, should be firmed up at appraisal. There was inadequate coordination
between AfDB and IDA staff in oversight of the project, and the co-financier's
staff could not participate in joint project supervision missions.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1794 - SO)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. OBJECTIVES
1.    The primary objectives of the Second Agricultural Extension Project (SAEP) were to
increase agricultural production and farmers' incomes. These were to be achieved through support
to the activities initiated under the preceding International Development Association (IDA)
financed Agricultural Farm Management, Extension and Training (AFMET) Project (Cr. 905 -
SO), as well as supporting institution building in agricultural research. The project aimed at: a)
strengthening the extension system in eight regions through the provision of housing,
infrastructure, transport, equipment and technical assistance; b) up-grading the training program
for extension staff by improving facilities at the training centers, increased and improved staff
training, and expanding the field trials program; and c) strengthening and coordinating agricultural
research through the establishment of a strong Research Directorate in the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), supporting on-going research at Bonka Station, and the establishment of a research
support fund to be used in commissioning adaptive research. Project components thus included:
support to the Project Head Office (US$7.2 million); strengthening organization of field extension
activities (US$8.6 million); training and capacity building (US$5.8 million); and agricultural
research (US$5.1 million), bringing total project costs to US$26.7 million.
2.    Under SAEP, the extension service coverage was to be increased from 125,000 to about
158,000 farm families, or about 75 percent of all farm families in the operational area. This target
was feasible given the proposed seven year implementation period of the project and an expanded
physical area to be covered. The main risk to the project was the uncertainty regarding the
continued availability of capable staff and adequate input supplies. However, these were to be
minimized through financial and physical incentives given to staff by the project. Furthermore,
Government support to farmers by way of adequate incentives, and free trade between the public
and private sectors was felt to ensure availability of adequate quantities of inputs. However, the
specter of civil strife which overtook the country a few years later, could not have been foreseen
in the mid- 1 980s.
3.    The project's objectives were clear and realistic. As a follow in operation, the project was
to build on the successes and lessons learnt from the AFMET project. The findings from the
latter, were as follows: the lead time required for an extension system to take root is quite long;



- 2 -
the involvement of multiple donors with different views on extension methodology confuses both
the project and its managers; the country's research base was weak, with little to recommend to
farmers, particularly in the rainfed areas; and, field staff mobility was constrained by inadequate
arrangements for vehicle maintenance. It was the goal of SAEP to address some of these
problems. Implementation of the project was not seen as a problem because a well established,
adequately staffed project implementation unit was already in place.
4.    The country's sector strategy had been articulated in the Agriculture Sector Survey earlier
undertaken by the Bank, GOS, and other donors. The survey concluded inter alia, that foodgrain
output could grow by about 5 percent per annum during the next two decades, but this would
require major yield increases accompanied by a 0.5 million ha increase in the area under
cultivation. Output of other crops, such as fruits, would also increase comparably. The Survey
also recognized that investment in agriculture would need to be bolstered by better management
of a range of agricultural services (research, extension, credit, input supplies, etc.) accompanied
by the strengthening of appropriate institutions to deliver them. The project sought to address
this requirement by aiming at strengthening the country's research and extension services.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
General
5.    About one year after the project got underway in September 1987, the security situation in
Somalia began to deteriorate. This hampered smooth and orderly project implementation in some
areas. The insecurity eventually spread to most parts of the country, escalating into a full blown
civil war which resulted in the ouster of the Government in January 1991. Soon after that, project
activities completely ceased, and could not be resumed thereafter. The project was therefore
implemented for only slightly over three years as compared to the appraisal estimate of seven
years. The early cessation of project operations resulted in only a partial achievement of SAEP's
objectives (notwithstanding a promising start). No field visit has been undertaken in the course of
preparing this ICR. As a result, project achievements cannot be accurately assessed due to lack
of complete data. However, the project's impact on enhancing the credibility of the extension
service was significant. Extension services provided were relevant to farmer needs. They were
clearly beneficial in increasing yields and incomes. Some evidence of this was offered by the
strong demand by farmers' organizations for extension services initially provided by AFMET, and
subsequently supported under SAEP. Another indication was the award given by the Government
to the project as the most outstanding development project, in 1990, the only project to be thus
recognized that year; (this honor was bestowed on the project by a selection committee in the
Office of the President, as a part of an annual exercise, wherein the committee identified certain
exceptional agricultural development projects. These projects were officially recognized during
Farmers' Week).



-3 -
Financial Objectives
6.    The project aimed to improve farmers' incomes through increased agricultural production.
Although production data is not readily available, it is believed that the project, notwithstanding
its short life-span, contributed to increased agricultural output, particularly in the irrigated areas.
Improved varieties of sorghum, rice, mung beans and various vegetable crops were distributed
and readily adopted by the farmers. Steps were also taken to further improve on animal draft
powered planting and weeding implements introduced by the project. These improvements, along
with the liberalization of agricultural input/output marketing, resulted in increased agricultural
production of about 6 percent per annum. Although farmers interviewed by the IDA supervision
missions complained about the intermittent scarcity of some inputs, particularly fertilizers and
herbicides, they reported increased profitability from their farming operations. The project
therefore did partially achieve its financial objective albeit, for a limited period, due to the civil
war.
Institutional & Physical Objectives
7.    Not surprisingly, the project's institutional strengthening objectives could only be achieved
partially. Project implementation was adversely affected initially, due to project management
being over-hauled in the first six months of the project, changes in senior extension and training
staff, and delays in recruiting TA. However, this change in top management was short-lived. The
original project manager was reinstated, and proved to be effective and dynamic. Qualified
Somali nationals were appointed to head the extension and training activities while two
expatriates (TA) were recruited in the posts of Technical Manager and Research Advisor. With
this staffing arrangement in place, and with the reinstatement of the competent project manager,
project implementation improved substantially in terms of technical operations, training, planning,
monitoring and evaluation, and counterpart funds mobilization. The staff improvements were
complemented by the vehicles purchased under the project which facilitated mobility.
8.    Notwithstanding the delays in finalizing housing and infrastructure construction contracts,
rehabilitation of Bonka Research Station, and some of the staff housing and training centers had
been completed by the time the project operations ceased. However, most of the civil works
carried out under the project were reportedly destroyed in the ensuing civil war, while the
equipment and vehicles procured were either damaged or looted.
9.    The extension activities under SAEP made good progress, introducing new high yielding
varieties of wheat and sorghum to the farmers, as well as donkey and camel-drawn planting and
weeding implements. On-farm trials were carried out; specific programs such as, introducing
women and youth to improved agricultural practices were implemented. The project was also
successful in consolidating a number of diverse extension activities scattered across the country,
under the umbrella of the Extension Directorate. Although the research activities lagged behind,
eventually these picked up in key food crops such as sorghum, maize, groundnut and sesame. The
project took over full operation of the Bonka Research Station after the completion of the Bay



- 4 -
Region Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 972-SO). SAEP also rehabilitated the Central
Research Station at Afgoi, financing for which was to be provided under another donor funded
project. Agricultural research was in full operation at the time of the project's cessation. The
training component did well within the short life of the project. About 130 staff went on short and
long-term training outside Somalia (including nine staff who undertook Masters Programs). There
was also considerable staff training at the local training institutes and in the field, particularly of
Field Extension Assistants (FEA) and farmers. Women and youth were in particular given access
to these training programs. Although, most of the staff who obtained external training returned to
Somalia upon completing their training, an unspecified number have reportedly left the country
because of the on-going civil unrest.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
10.   The project was adversely affected by the civil strife which broke out, some three years
after project implementation started. Not only did this hamper project operations in many areas,
but also resulted in project operations ceasing altogether in early 1991, following the collapse of
the Government. Another extraneous factor which affected the project was the suspension of
AfDB loan disbursements soon after the project got underway. This resulted in delays in the
procurement of vehicles and construction of civil works. The problem was, however, resolved
after several months and disbursements were resumed (total AfDB disbursement amounted to
some US$10.5 million as at April 30, 1994).
11.   The project was partially affected by the changes in top project management in the first six
months of the project, which meant that key decisions could not be taken and plans and strategies
could not be developed for the future implementation of the project. As indicated earlier, this
problem was resolved when the former General Manager was reinstated. GOS was fully
committed to the project, and it met its local currency budgetary commitment to the project in a
fairly regular manner. Government, however, had difficulty in meeting its foreign exchange
commitments due to its inability to obtain adequate foreign exchange resources.
12.   The project management team at PMU, particularly the effective leadership of the Project
Manager, substantially aided the project. The project's management was able to convince
Government to contribute its financial share to the project, and also followed up with the relevant
authorities whenever any institutional bottlenecks arose. The Directorate of Research (DOR) took
some time to establish, and like the PMU it also suffered from weak management and ineffective
technical assistance in the early stages. Its operation improved with the appointment of a new
Research Director who was able to mobilize resources and establish strong linkages with the
PMU. The new Director was also able to establish technical and administrative supervision of
both the Bonka and Afgoi research stations. A Memorandum of Understanding between the
Directorate of Research and the Somali extension service, formalizing the working arrangements
and linkages between the two institutions greatly improved collaboration between extension and
research services. SAEP benefited from this collaborative arrangement, which greatly facilitated
its implementation.



-5 -
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
13.   The sustainability of the initiatives supported under SAEP are highly unlikely. Since
project operations ceased in 1991, there has been no effective government in Somalia and large
parts of the country have continued to be affected by civil strife. According to secondary sources,
it is understood that much of the research and extension infrastructure in terms of buildings,
equipment and vehicles have been destroyed or looted. Both research and extension advisers
recruited by the project left the country soon after the Govemment fell. Most of the senior
Somali research and extension officials have left the country or are dispersed. Thus, without an
effective government to provide the necessary policy environment and borrower commitment,
absence of physical facilities to operate from, and senior and mid-level staff to cover the research
and extension systems, the activities started by the project are not likely to be sustainable.
However, they can perhaps be revived by assembling some of the former staff, when the political
stability is restored.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
14.   The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was satisfactory, adequately
taking into account the lessons and experience gathered from the preceding project and GOS
strategy for increasing food production. Of particular significance was the project's provision of
support for the Bonka Research Station after the completion of Bay Region Area Development
Project.
15.   The Bank's performance in project preparation was also adequate. Detailed project
preparation work was assigned to external consultants whose terms of reference had been
prepared by the Bank. Later, the Bank mounted a one man brief mission to review the progress
made by the consultants. Bank staff also reviewed in detail the working papers prepared by the
consultants to ensure they were complete and addressed all the major and relevant aspects of the
proposed project.
16.   Bank appraisal of the project took place a few months after GOS had submitted the
project preparation report. Overall, the performance of the Bank was satisfactory. The appraisal
team of three people with expertise in research, extension and institutional development, was
suited for this type of project. Borrower commitment to the project was ascertained; the
implementing agency's capacity was evaluated and augmented with TA where necessary.
Although not specifically identified in the SAR, the appraisal team agreed with the provision of
improved housing facilities and training to project staff Project risks were fairly well evaluated.
However, the threat of a complete socio-economic breakdown, as a result of civil war in the
country, was not analyzed, and perhaps could not have been foreseen at the time. The project
financing plan was realistic. The only exception was the expectation that GOS could raise the
foreign exchange required to meet its contribution to project financing, without any major
problems. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) had to be amended in December 1988 (one
year after project effectiveness), so that IDA could finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange



- 6 -
required for meeting operating costs under the extension and training components. The DCA was
amended again in November 1989, so that the amount of the IDA credit allocated to meeting
these operating costs was nearly doubled.
17.   Bank supervision of the project was satisfactory. As shown in Table 13, only four
supervision missions visited the project before hostilities made it difficult for further missions to
visit Somalia. The skill mix of the Bank missions was appropriate, although the inclusion of an
institutional development specialist would have helped increase effectiveness. There was adequate
continuity of staff, and in fact, the last three missions comprised the same staff Their reports
succinctly documented implementation progress and identified problems and offered advice for
improving performance. They also followed up with the Borrower where covenants were not
being complied with. The supervision missions worked satisfactorily with the Borrower and
maintained cordial relationships. There was inadequate coordination between AfDB and IDA
staff in oversight of the project, and AfDB (co-financier) staff could not participate in joint
project supervision missions.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
18.   GOS performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Government
discussed with the Bank the terms of reference for the consultants contracted to do the project
preparation work and supervised them. The preparation report delivered by GOS was considered
of a sufficient quality to contribute to the basic framework for project.
19.   Once the staffing arrangement for the project had been settled, the project was
satisfactorily implemented by GOS. Although the execution of the civil works was delayed by
several months because of the suspension of disbursements by AfDB, the pace picked up and
work was progressing satisfactorily by the time project operations had to be suspended. As shown
in Table 5, the vehicle procurement program was also proceeding well with 22 out of 38 motor
vehicles received, and 59 out of 109 motor cycles also delivered. Following initial delays in
procuring TA for training, the training program (both in-house and external) made fairly good
progress by the time the project operations were halted. GOS also sought via SAEP to further the
objectives of improved agricultural performance of women and youth. Government provided
adequate levels of counterpart funding (particularly, meeting its share of local currency
expenditure) throughout, demonstrating a high level of commitment to this project.
20.   The performance of the consultants hired for the project was satisfactory in the short time
they were in place. Reportedly, the input of the training consultants was particularly effective in
various areas, including the in-service training of staff, training of farmers and in facilitating the
implementation of the external training component. The consultant working on farm implements
was most effective, not only in improving indigenous farm implements and adapting them for use
with donkeys and camels, but also in training animals to work with these implements. In contrast,
the TA for research was largely ineffective, being reactive rather than proactive.



- 7 -
21.   As shown in Table 10, on balance, the Government satisfactorily complied with the major
legal covenants in the DCA. Preparation of Annual Work Programs was initially delayed but this
improved with time. At the time the project became effective, audits of the financial accounts
were 2 years in arrears but the situation improved, and by June/July 1989 the project accounts for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988 had been handed in to the auditors.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
22.   Although the initial results of the project were satisfactory, these were later reversed
because of the civil strife in the country. Thus, despite a promising start and satisfactory
implementation performance by the Borrower, the mid-stream cessation of operations left the
project unable to achieve most of its objectives and the initiatives launched under it unsustainable.
Its physical investments, e.g., buildings, and equipment and vehicles, etc., have been largely
destroyed or looted during the war. Staff trained by the project have either fled the country, or
like other staff in the implementing agency, are dispersed and unable to carry out their duties.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
23.   In view of the current insecurity and political situation in the country, no plans for future
operations could be prepared. However, when peace returns and agricultural operations resume,
SAEP will most likely be revisited and its experiences sought as an input into a program to
resuscitate Somalia's agricultural research and extension services. In this regard, key agricultural
research and extension activities can perhaps be revived by assembling some of the former project
staff, upon the return of political stability in the country.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
24.   The major lessons learned over the short duration of the project are as follows:
(i)    Collaborative arrangements between key agencies involved in the execution
of a project should be worked out at appraisal, or their finalization should be a
condition for Credit/Loan effectiveness. In projects where two or more
implementing agencies/ institutions are involved, the success of the intervention
will greatly depend upon the level of cooperation and collaboration between these
institutions. A Memorandum of Understanding between the Directorate of
Research and the Somali extension service, formalizing the working arrangements
and linkages between the two institutions greatly improved the collaboration
between extension and research services. SAEP benefited from this collaborative
arrangement, which greatly facilitated its implementation.



- 8 -
(ii)    The project financing plan should carefully evaluate Government's ability
to meet its counterpart funding requirements. In particular, the foreign exchange
commitments to be shouldered by the Government should be realistically assessed
at appraisal, prior to finalizing the financing plan. While GOS was fully committed
to the project, and met its local currency commitments to the project in a fairly
regular manner, it could not readily raise the foreign exchange required to finance
the project costs incurred in foreign currencies. (Some 25 percent of total GOS
contribution was planned to go towards meeting foreign exchange costs). The
DCA therefore, had to be amended as early as one year after project effectiveness,
so that IDA could finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange required for
meeting operating costs under the training and extension components of the
project.
(iii)    A key lesson which emerges from this project is that, arrangements for
collaboration between the co-financiers in areas such as joint supervision of the
project, should be firmed up at appraisal. There was inadequate coordination
between AfDB and IDA staff in oversight of the project, and AfDB (co-financier)
staff could not participate in joint project supervision missions.



- 9 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial   Partial   Negligible  Applicable
Macro-economic policies        =
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development                             _
Physical objectives"' 
Poverty reduction              =
Gender concerns                           _
Other social objectives                                           I
Environmental objectives                              =
Public sector management                                          I
Private sector development                                        I
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability       Likely    Unlikely  Uncertain
(H)       5)
Highly
C. Bank performance         satisfactor  Satisfactory  Deficient
(I)         (I)        ()
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
The project's achievements were largely destroyed in the war.



- 10-
Highly
D. Borrower performance             satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
(V)           V/)            )
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                        Highiy
E. Assessment of outcome 2-    satisfactorv  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
21 Project activities were halted in mid-stream because of war.



- 1 1 -
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title            Purpose                     Approval Status
Preceding Operations
Cr. 905-SO       Agriculture Extension                  1979  Completed.
Cr. 906-SO       Central Rangelands Development         1979  Completed.
Cr. 972-SO       Bay Region Agriculture Development     1979  Completed.
Cr. 1538-SO      NW Region Agric. Development           1985  Suspended.
Cr. 1711-SO      Agric. Sec. Adjustment Program (ASAP)   1986  Suspended.
Following Operations
Cr. 1774-SO      Rainfed Farm Semi. Mech. Agriculture    1987  Suspended.
Cr. 1856-SO      Baardhere Tech. Assistance             1987  Suspended.
Cr. 1957-SO      CRDP II                                1989  Suspended.
Cr. 2030-SO      ASAP II                                1989  Suspended.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned        Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     12/85              12/85
Preparation                                                        5/86
Appraisal                                       9/86               9/86
Negotiations                                    3/87               3/87
Board presentation                                                 5/87
Signing                                                            6/87
Effectiveness                                   9/87               9/87
Project completion                              6/93                *
Credit closing                                 12/93                *
*Project operations ceased in early 1991 because of insecurity.



- 12 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY87 I FY88 I FY89 I FY90 I FY91          FY92    FY93
Appraisal estimate       900    3,300   5,800   8,000   9,900    11,400   12,700
Actual                     -    1,442   3,577   5,887   6,969        -      6,855
Actual as % of estimate   0    44       62      74        70         0       54
Date of final
disbursement                                             1/25/91
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Unit         SAR                Actual
Estimate
1. Staff Housing
- House for FEAs (30 sq. m. each)    No. of houses        196           n.a.
- Type A Houses (100 sq. m. each)   No. of houses           6           n.a.
- Type B Houses (75 sq. m. each)   No. of houses          31            n.a.
- Type C Houses (50 sq. m. each)   No. of houses          46             n.a.
2. Bonka Building Rehab.                Sq.m.               100           n.a.
3. Vehicles
-Project Head Office               No. of vehicles        14
- Field Extension Organization     No. of vehicles         9             22
- Training                         No. of vehicles         7
- Research                         No. of vehicles         8
- Motorcycles                      No. of                 109            59
motorcycle.
4. Technical Assistance
- Training                            m/year              19            n.a.
- Research                            m/year               6            n.a.
- Project Head Office                 m/year              25            n.a.
5. Training
- In-house Training                No. of courses         79
- External Training                __1291'
6. Incremental Extension Coverage     F/Families          34,000          n.a.
I/Including 9 Masters Degree Courses.



- 13 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the
SAR. Because of the current state of war in the country, no
operational indicators can be defined for the future.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as            Status at
Study              defined at           appraisal         Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
No specific studies were included in the project. However, the SAR stipulated that if a need
for studies arose during project implementation, the Somali extension service or the
Research Directorate would prepare terms of reference which would be cleared by IDA. No
studies were carried out prior to project closure in early 1991.



- 14 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                  Appraisal estimate-1t        Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                       (US$M)
Local  I Foreign | Total   Local  Foreign n    Total
1. Project Head Office           1.2       5.1      6.3    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.
2. Field Extension               2.8       4.7       7.5    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.
Organization
3. Training                      1.4       3.7       5.1    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.
4. Agricultural Research         0.6       3.9       4.5    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.
Total Baseline Costs             6.1       17.3     23.3   n.a.    n.a.        n.a.
Physical Contingencies        0.5       1.3       1.8    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.
Price Contingencies           0.5       1.2       1.6    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.
Total Project Costs              7.0       19.7     26.7    n.a.       n.a      19.44'
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate-/           Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                         (US$M)
3Source            Local  I Foreign ITotal    Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                         2.1      10.6      12.7;/    n.a.        n.a.      6.85
AfDB                        2.2       8.2       10.4                            10.43
GOS                         2.7       0.9       3.6                            2.12/
TOTAL                       7.0      19.7       26.7                          19.384/
I/Per SAR.
2/ Equivalent SDRIO.I million.
3/Estimated data.
4/Estimated from World Bank and African Development Bank disbursement data and supervision
reports.



- 15 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated at appraisal. The quantifiable benefits
from the project were expressed in terms of increased CDP yields and higher income as indicated below.
1. Incremental Yield                                          Per SARI/   Actual
a) Controlled Irrigation                                  ----------QTL/Ha----------
Maize                                                5.0           n.a.
Sesame                                               1.5           n.a
Pulses                                               3.2           n.a
b) Flood Irrigation
Maize                                                5.1           n.a
Sesame                                               1.1           n.a
Pulses                                               2.7           n.a
c) Rainfed
Sorghum                                              1.3           n.a
Pulses                                               1.2           n.a
2. Incremental Income (per Farm)                             -----------So.Sh----
a) Controlled Irrigation (3 ha farm)
Gross value of production                       60,850             n.a
Net farm cash income                            26,694             n.a
Net income (return to management)               27,205             n.a
b) Flood Irrigation (3 ha farm)
Gross value of production                       54,575             n.a
Net farm cash income                             19,269            n.a
Net income (return to management)                19,780            n.a
c) Rainfed (4 ha farm)
Gross value of production                       21,800             n.a
Net farm cash income                             6,020             n.a
Net income (return to management)                6,020             n.a
1/Full development (year 10).



- 16 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants-"
Page I of 5
Original             Revised
DCA                Covenant               Present          Fulfillment             Fulfill-                         Description of Covenant                                            Comments
Section                Type                 Status               Date             ment Date
3.02                    3                    C                                                    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.03                   5                     C                                                    The Borrower shall: (a) maintain in operation the
Project Management Unit (PMU) established under
the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management
Training Project (Credit 905-SO) with the same
membership as provided therein which shall assist
the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the Project;
and (b) maintain in employment, during execution of
the Project, the General Manager, Technical
Manager and Financial Controller of PMU, whose
qualification and experience shall be acceptable to the
_____________________________                              A ssociation.
i/        Convenant types                                                                        Present status:
I     =   Accountsaudits                                8.    =   Indigenous people                       C      =   covenant complied with
2          Financial performance/revenue                9     =   Monitoring, review, and                 CD    =   complied wiLh after delay
generation from beneficiaries                          reporing                                CP    =   complied with partially
3      =   Flow and utilization of project             10    =   Projec implementation not                NC         not complied with
funds                                                  covered by categories 1-9
4     =   Counterpart funding                          11    =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5     =   Management aspects of the                               budgetary or other resource
project or executing agency                            allocation
6      =   Environmental covenants                     12    =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7      =   Involuntary resettlement                               regulatory/institutional action
13    =   Other



- 17 -
Page 2 of 5
3.04             5               C                                      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part B of the Project, the Borrower
shall: (a) maintain in operation until the
completion of the Project, the Research
Directorate established in MOA which
shall be responsible for coordinating all
research activities under the Project and
identifying areas requiring the application
of adaptive research methods; and (b)
maintain in employment, during execution
of the Project, the Director General of
Research whose qualifications and
experience shall be acceptable to the
Association.
3.05             11              C      June 30 1987          n.a.      With reference to Section 9.08 of the     Specific date of fulfillment not
General Conditions the Borrower shall     available on files.
furnish to the Association, not later than
June 30, 1987 documentary evidence
showing that land has been allocated for
the Project.
3.06(a)           3               CP                                     The Borrower shall or shall cause the
preparation and submission to the
Association for review and comments, not
later than March 1 of each year, the
Annual Work Programme and Budget for
the succeeding two agricultural sessions.



- 18 -
Page 3 of 5
3.07      5       n.a.     Dec. 31, 1987        n.a.  The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1987 establish   Status information not
within MOA a Project Technical Coordination Committee whose   available.
chairman shall be the Vice Minister of Agriculture and whose
other members shall include the General Manager, Somali
extension service- AFMET, the Director General of Research,
the Research Advisor, the Directors of research stations, one
representative each from MFLR and MOF, and the Technical
Manager of AFMET who shall be the Secretary of the
._______   ____________     ________   Com m ittee.
3.08      3         C                                 Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) for the purposes of the
Project open and thereafter maintain until the completion of the
project in the Central Bank of Somalia, two Project Advance
Accounts to be used for the purposes of meeting recurrent
expenditures for Parts A and B of the Project respectively; (b)
deposit in the said Accounts the sum of Somali Shillings thirty
million (So.Sh.30,000,000) and Somali Shillings fifteen million
(So. Sh. 15,000,000) respectively; and (c) maintain at all times a
minimum balance of Somali Shillings ten million
(So.Sh. 10,000,000) and five mission (So. Sh.5,000,000) in each
account respectively.



- 19 -
Page 4 of 5
4.01(b)              1               CD                                           The borrower shall: (i) have the records
and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in
any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and details as the
Association shall have reasonably
l _________   ___________________   _________   ________________    ____________    requested.                                     _____rque ted



- 20 -
Page 5.of 5
4.01(c)             1              CD                                        For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were
made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least
one year after the completion of the audit
for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account or
payment out of the Special Accounts was
made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records;
and (iv) ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied
l                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~upon to support the related withdrawals.



- 21 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title             Describe and Comment on Lack of
Compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational
Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle       Planned                  Revised                   Actual
Weeks       US$         Weeks         US$        Weeks        US$
('OOOs)
Through appraisal                                                               50.0
Appraisal-Board                                                                 10.1
Board-effectiveness                                                              0.2           l
Supervision                     73.5                    62.9                    45.0 
Completion                                              11.0       28.3        8.5-I           l
TOTAL                         n.a.                     n.a.       n.a.        113.8       n.a.
l/Estimate as of 10/1/94.



- 22 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month/   Number   Days    Specialiazed            Performance Rating2/        Types of
Project Cycle     Year        of       in       Staff Skills                                 Problems1'
Persons   Field    Represented    __
Implemen-    Development
tation       Objectives
Status
Identification    12/85        3        10     R, E, I
Preparation       5/86         1        5      E
Appraisal          9/86        5        18     R,C,I,E,M
Supervision 1     11/87        2        5      R, E                S              S
Supervision 2     5/88         3        12     E,A,P               S              S           F,M
Supervision 3     11/88        3        10     E,A,P              S               S           F
Supervision 4     6/89         2        7      A,P                S               S           P
Project           5/94         2               F
Completion                  (Desk
. _______________  ______    Review )
/R= Research; E = Extension; I = Institutional Development; C = Economics; M = Marketing; A =  Agriculture;
P = procurement; F = Finance.
2/S = Satisfactory.
3/F = Funding; M = Management; P = Procurement.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 20121
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
'2'  DJIBOUTI                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Beredo  1 2'
DJIBOUTI
)                  4I9OUTI .~dloyodo
*    SeylIa                                                              Adodo  Bososo           +
Mart
t    15             ~~~~~Berbera                               r,gayo
Laz Daa
8<cra;!o  ', \<n t .\'   cslb
Tug WcIe a?- e   
Aburrin t-~ZfiO ~X geroo                                /                        Gardc  t                      0 Bender Beile
SOMALIA               < QohIeh "'    '"Arb
SECOND AGRICULTURAL  -
EXTENSION PROJECT
8'  .......JArea covered on y by Project I
Areas covered by Projects I and 11
o     N'ew Extens on Tra n ng Center
*     Exrension Training Centers
*        Farr  Management and Extens on Tra n ng Center
A      Researct Stot ons                                                A  TO
_          Btum nous Surfaced Roads
Gravel/Farth Surlaced Roods                                              /             <ayo
0     Nat onal Capitals
.     Major Ports
+     Domrest c Airports                                    o             
nternat ona A rports\                                           /       /\
D str ct Boundar es                                                   I      -\
Region Boundac,es                             9                
-     -International Boundares                                                usa MAareb
Centra Agricutura Research Station                                                                      Hobyo
/ ~ ~    XBererweis3y                ,o~~~~~~El Bur 
0     50    o00   s50    200   250   300
Kilometers
/   . . . ~~~~~oF  > bdeo   ,   \ .  - . \       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      / 
.  \ o;       7 abo   s s JQWelambo
gi; '  ''   n \'~ \        r                                                                                  2.
Brovo~~~~'                                                        F
44.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
amame                                                          E T H I 0 P I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARH  98
.,~~~~~~~~~~~j4                                                                         41         TANZArA   >    /Shlcmofr,rASe
<t   \ tsiurna\   -   < /                                                                               ,, sv-  Z FJ iP fas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MACH 98



