Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(6P.  ?'7'f-,3
Report No. 6615-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
April 20, 1987
Northern Agriculture Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CIJRRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)              =  100 cents
IJS$1.00 (at appraisal - Sept. 1986) = So.Sh. 83.0 (Official Rate)
= So.Sh, 136 (Free Market Rate)
US$1.00 (January 1987)                =  So.Sh. 91.4 (Official Rate)
= So.Sh. 136 (Free Market)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Hectare (ha)           = 10,000 m2
I Square Kilometer (km) = 100 ha
I Metric Ton (mt)        = 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF     -   African Development Fund
AYMET   -   Agricult'iral Farm Management, Extension and Training (Project)
ARI     -   Agricultural Research Instittute
BRAI)P   -   Pay Region Area Development Project
CARS    -   Central Agricultural Research Station
CSBS    -   Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
DEO     -   District Extension Officer
ETC     -   Extenision Training Center
FEA     -   Field Extension Agent
FHETC   -   Farm Management and Extension Training r.enter
:OS     -   Government of Somalia
M&E     -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA     -   Ministry of Agriculture
PMU     -   Project 7Lainagement Unit
ItEO    -   Regional Extension Officer
SMS     -   Subject Matter Specialist
SOE     -   Statements of Expenditure
T&V     -   Training and Visit System (of Extension)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
'STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pge No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ........... ..........eo.oo.o,        i-ii
Is     SECTORAL BACKGROUND  ..o .........,.....,,,..oo                   I
A, Country Characteristics l
B. Tha Agricultural Sector   **,........e,.........               1
C. Bank Group Role and Strategy                                   7
D. The Agricultural Extension and Farm Management
Training Project - Cr. 905-SO ....................          8
II.    THE PROJECT                                                      11
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Main Features         .......  11
B. Detailed Features                                             12
C. Focus on Women  ... ........            ...              ., .*  17
D. New Extension Responsibilities  ......17
III.   COST ESTIMATES_AND FIliANCING   l .....o  ..   .  .o              8
A. Cost Estimates  ....                                          18
B. Financing                                                     19
C. Procurement              ............                .       2CG
D. Disbursements                                                 21
E, Accounts and Audit  .............. . ..             ..        22
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND NIANAGEMENT           ....................,..    23
A. Project Agencies and Coordination   .................    23
B. Extension and Training ,                                      23
C. Research  ......................................    26
D. Annual Work Program                                           28
E. Monitoring and Evaluation                                     29
V.     BENEFITS AND RISKS  *o.........o...                              29
A. Benefitws ¢+*9§**#§e*vv**e**vv                                29
B. Project Risks ..............    ,,   * .................    32
C. Project Sustainability ................ *........*....    33
VI.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND xECOMMENDATIONS ...........         33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No,
TEXT TABLES
1.1    Rates of Adoption of Key Management Practices for Maize
and Sorghum by Contact and Non-Contact Farmers under
the T&V System ..............................                     9
1.2    Crop Cutting Survey Yields Obtained During 1983-1985 iii
Extension Areas .........................,............            10
3.1    Project Cost Summary *   ,...           ...   *. ........... .    18
3.2    Financing Plan .0... ................ ...... e0 ...... ..          19
3.3    Procurement Schedule .................. .    20
5.1    Present and Projected Crop Yields ..................  ....         30
5.2    Estimated Farm Incomes ,...................    32
ANNEXES
1.    Status of Bank Group Operations in Somalia                         36
2.    Project Staffing and Coverage                                     37
3.    Cost Tables    0.       .............                  .......    38-54
4.    Schedule of Disbursements  ...........e..........*,.,.,            55
5.    Criteria for the Preparation and Selection of
Propos37.s for Research Work to be Financed
from the Research Support Fund                                    56-57
6.    Terms of Reference                      ...                        58-68
7.    No. of Courses run in the FMETC & ETCs
in the .:irst Phase Project .........,.,..,.........           69-70
8.  rMETC Training Plan                                                  71-72
9.    Status of Technology                                               73-74
10,    Farm Models                                                        75-77
11.    Documents Available in the Project File          .......           78
CHART:  WB No. 31049, Organization of AFMET                               79
MAP:    IBRD No. 20121
Somalia - Second Agricultural Extension Project



- i -
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Government of Somalia
Beneficiaries:         Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:                SDR 10.1 million (US$12.7 million)
Terms:                 Standard IDA Terms
Cofinancing:           ADF Loan - US$10.4 million
Project Deacription:  The project would maintain and improve the Extension
Service established by the Agricultural Extension and
Farm Management Training Project (Cr. 905-SO) and
would strengthen Somalia's agricultural research
capacity. There would be three parts to the project:
(i) Extension Services that would include
strengthening headquarters facilities and improving
field services by providing technical assistance,
vehicles, staff housing, and operating costs; (ii)
Traiaing, comprising local and overseas training,
constructing and improving training centers,
providing adequate equipment and staffing; and (iii)
Research comprising establishment of a research
directorate, including consultant support, fundirg to
ensure the continued operation of the dryland
research station at Bonka, and a fund for additional
adaptive research.
Benefit and Risks:    The main benefit would come frcm production increases
and consequently improved farmers' incomes, About
158,000 families are expected to benefit. The main
risks would be low staff morale and motivation; and
inadequate production incentives and inadequate input
supplies. Staff salary incentives, improved housing
and transport provision should ensure that the
reasonably high staff morale at present would be
maintained. The Government at present supports
adequate incentives for farmers and free competition
between the public and private sector to ensure
satisfactory input supplies. These issues are also a
major focus of Bank/Government sector discussions
that are part of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program Credit. These measures would minimize the
risks to a low and acceptable level.



- ii -
Estimated Cost
local     Foreign    Total
-- - US$ Million -
Component
Project Head Office                              1.2        5.1         6.3
Field Extension
organization                                  2.8         4.7         7.5
Training                                         1.4        3.7         5.1
Agricultural Research                            0.6         3.9        4.5
Total Baseline Cost                             6.1        17.3        23.4
Physical Contingencies                          0.5          1.3        1.8
Price Contingencies                             0.5          1.2        1.6
Total Project Costs 1/                           7.0        19.7       26,7
Financing Plan
IDA 2/                                          2.1        10.6        12.7
ADF                                              2.2        8.2        10.4
Government                                      2.7         0.9         3.6
Total                                           7.0        19.7        26.7
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit (uS$ Million)
IBRD FY               88      89     90      91      92     93      94
Annual                0.9    2.4    2.5   2.2        1.9    1.5   1i3
Cumulative            0.9    3.3    5.8   8.0        9,9   11.4   12.7
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Map IBRD No. 20121
1/  Taxes and duties are not included since Government investments are
exempt.
2/ Includes a PPF of US$1.2 million.



SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. THE SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Country Characteristics
1.01      Somalia is located in the northeastern corner of Africa, bordered
by Ethiopia and Kenya to the west and south, and the Gulf of Aden and the
Indian Ocean to the north and east (Map IBRD No. 20121). The coastline is
about 3,300 kilometers, and the land area is about 64 million hectares.
The topography is varied and includes hot and arid coastal plains, rugged
mountains and plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall.
About 29.9 million ha (47% of the total) is classified as agricultural
area, of which 28.8 million ha is devoted to permanent pasture and 1le
million ha is used for crop production. Of the latter area, some 50,000 to
100,000 ha along the Shebelli and to a iesser extent the Juba rivers
benefit from largely seasonal flood irrigation with low water use
efficiency. Ot the remaining land area 8.6 million ha (13X of the total)
comprises forests and woodlands, and 25.5 million ha (40% of the total) is
generally unsuitable for agricultural activities.
1.02      In 1985 the population was estimated by the Government of Somalia
(GOS) to be 5,8 million, growing at 3.1% per annum. The country is
supporting some 500,000 to 700,000 refugees, depending on estimates. Per
capita income in 1985 was estimated by GOS at slightly less than US$300
equivalent, giving a total national income of about US$1.7 billion. About
60% ot the labor force are nomads and semi-nomads who depend on livestock
for their subsistence; about 20% are farmers cultivating land along the
Shebelli and Juba rivers and in the higher rainfall Bay and North-West
Regions; the remainder (20%) are urban dwellers.
1.03      Somalia is among the poorer countries of the world with a hostile
physical envitonment and scattered population. It has poor communications
and the physical and institutional infrastructure need strengthening.
These factors represent formidable obstacles to development.
B. The Agriculture Sector
Performance
1.04      The agriculture sector - crops, livestock, forestry and fishing
- contributed over 50Z of total GiP during the period 1970-85.  Of this,
livestock accounted for 39% in 1985, crop production 12%, forestry 5% and
fisheries less than 1%. During the 1970s, agricultural production
stagnated and crop production declined, so that by 1979, annual production
was some 15% less than in 1970. Production, especially of crops, improved
dramatically in the 1980s, although not sufficiently to recoup the declines



- 2 -
in per capita food production experienced in the 1970s. Crop production
improvement, caused mainly by area expansion, followed deregulation of the
grain market and the resulting significant increases in producer pric4vs.
1.05      Primary commodities account for virtually all merchandise
exports. In 1982, the peak export year, livestock products accounted for
82% of exports, bananas 10% and fish, frankincense and myrrh the
remainder. Livestock exports have since daclined to about 70% of total due
to a bar on cattle exports to Somalia's main market; at the same time, the
value of banana exports has been maintained.
Policy Issues
1.06      The main issues in the agricultural sector are (a) price policy
and marketing; (b) public 4nvestment and public enterprises; (c) rural
finance; (d) input supply; and (e) research and extension. The first four
issues are being addressed by the government with support, inter alia, from
the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (para. 1.25) financed by the
International Development Associatior (IDA) and the Special Facility for
Africa. Research and extension are being addressed under ongoing projects
tinanced by IDA and other donors and will be the subject of this proposed
project.
1.07      The Agricultural Sector Survey, which is nearing completion,
examines these issues and highlights the new directions in which Somalia's
agriculture sector is moving. These include changes towards a more mixed
economy; liberalization of internal marketing for many crops and of foreign
exchange controls; major devaluations in real terms of the Somali Shilling
which have brcught many internal prices closer in line with world prices;
transfer of some state farms to settlements tied to programs for reducing
the size of the civil service; and consideration by Government of divesting
the public sector ot some enterprises or of converting them to commercial
or joint ventures. The results of the changes have been on balance very
positive which, together with favorable weather, has led to sharp increases
in food production, declines in food import requirements, and attraction of
private individuals to production and service activities in agriculture.
Resources for Agricultural Production
1.08      Although Somalia possesses abundant land relative to its small
population, low and variable rainfall places considerable constraints on
both livestock and crop production. Low rainfall also dictates that
livestock production, mainly by nomads on rangelands, dominates the
sector. The present capacity of range areas is considered to be at or near
the limit of animals that can be sustained. The number of nomads who leave
the rangelands to practice settled agriculture is evidence of the pressure
on the grazing areas.
1.09      The base for rdinfed crop production is limited.  Only two areas
have enough rain (400-60u mm per year, falling in two seasons) for that
purpose. A small area in the Northwest, around Hargeisa; and a larger area
between the Juba and Shebelli kivers in the South. Rainfed crop production
practiced mainly by smallho]ders, has always been hazardous, with failure



- 3 -
due to drought, a constant thieat. Two IDA water conservation projects
(Credits 635-SO and 1538-SO) are improving yields and reducing production
risks in the Northwest. In the South, IDA financed trials wi-h semi-
mechanized dryland farming have been promising. They are to be expanded
into a large-scale pilot operation, recently appraised by IDA, to explore
to what extent the reported 6-7 million hectares potential rainfed cropland
can be effectively exploited. The most reliable crop production to date
comes from the irrigated or seasonally flooded lands from which most of the
increased production of recent years has come. There is considerable
potential to be developed from irrigation rehabilitation on the Shebelli
River, under consideration at present, and from the longer term development
possibilities on the Juba River based on construction of the Bardhere Dam.
1.10      Sorghum, mostly rainfed and maize mostly irrigated, are the main
crops, followed by sesame and pulses. Bananas is the main export crop.
banana production and marketing are well organized by a joint Government/
Italian Fruit Company venture. Other cropping enterprises of note are
horticultural crops with expanding production for the local market and
seeking "Gulf" export opportunities; two sugar estates and rice
production. The latter, on a very small scale to date, is expanding as a
result of extension work and could become an important import substitution
commodity. Growth of the agricultural sector will largely depend on growth
of crop production. The crops subsector has benefitted from extension work
in the past and will require even better extension in the future, a task to
be addressed by the project.
Inputs and Credit
1.11      So far, pesticides and fertilizers have played only a small role
in smallholder crop production. however, due to good financial returns,
demonstrated by extension work, there is increasing demand for seed
dressing and stem Lorer chemicals as well as for fertilizers, mostly urea,
in irrigation areas. Government distribution channels have been the sole
source ot these inputs in the past and have been weak. Stocks of chemicals
are of low quality, some are more than three years old. Private traders
are now making some progress in entering the inputs supply market, but they
are hampered by government regulations. There have also been urea
shortages, due to an import ban to protect the local factory. In the
longer term, farmers should be well served under the government policy
supporting free competition between public and private suppliers. In the
meantime, existing hurdles need to be overcome. The Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (para. 1.25) includes measures to encourage the private
sector to import and distribute agricultural inputs. These are being
monitored and will most likely need to be maintained in successor program
credits.
1.12      Of the main crops, there is a successful improved variety only
for irrigated maize to date, Consequently, there is good demand for its
seed, but not for seeds of other crops. An FAO sponsored seed production
unit provides seed supplies but not enough to meet the full demand.
Fortunately, the seed can be distributed from farmer to farmer without
detriment. Seed output would be increased in future by private growers,
advised by the extension service, to encourage the establishment of a
private seed industry.



- 4 -
1.13      Institutional credit for agriculture is provided though the
Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia (CSBS), responsible for seasonal
credit, and the Somali Development Bank, responsible for development
credit. The latter bank, confined to the main urban centers, has done
little agricultural business. In any case, most farmers' needs are likely
to be for seasonal credit, Limited credit availability has not proved an
important production constraint in the past, and the greater use of
purchased inputs will most probably depend more on their ready availability
than on farmers' access to credit. However, due to improved farming
practices, some growth in demand for seasonal credit can be expected. The
CSBS, with 40 branches, is well placed to serve the farming community, but
has been cautious about lending to farmers to date, particularly to
smallholders.  Its own limited efforts in that direction ha%e been
reinforced by the Seasonal Credit for Small Farmers Project. This is
funded by the United Nations Capital Development Fund and is executed by
the CSBS. Coverage has reached 5,000 farmers, with holdings less than 5
ha, cultivating 14,000 ha in the Shebelli Valley and is expanding. Results
so far are encouraging, with the repayment rate better than 90%. United
Nation's support is expected to continue beyond the 1989 closing date of
the credit project. In case the situation changes, IDA support for credit
may need to be considered in future agricultural lending operations.
Extension
1.14      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has been and remains
responsible for extension. Before the implementation of the Agricultural
Extension and Farm Management Training (AFMET) Project (Cr. 905-SO),
extension services were confined to regional and district centers staffed
by a few partly, or poorly, qualified agents. Extension did not reach farm
level.
1.15      The AFMET project (paras. 1.29 to 1.35) has established a service
that covers eight of ten regions in which arable agriculture ia important
(Map IBRD No. 20121). It does not handle advisory work for nomadic
livestock owners. Because of the long distance from the areas served by
AFMET and consequent management difficulties, the Second Northwest
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1538-SO) finances and manages
extension in the two northwest arable regions. The Training and Visit
(T&V) extension system 1/ has been introduced, It encompasses regular
advisory visits to fa.mners, widespread demonstration programs and frequent
intensive staff training.
1.16      The service generally known as AFMET is administered by its
Project Management Unit (PMU), established by Presidential Decree No. 8
dated December 31, 1980 (Law No. 8 of the Somali Republic). The PMU is
directed by the General Manager, assisted by a Project Technical Manager
and Financial Controller, both internationally recruited. Field staff
comprises 7 Regional Extension Officers (REOs), supported by 12 Subject
Matter Specialists (SMSs), and directing 22 District Extension Oficers
1/  The T&V system is described in:  Agricultuzal Extensior:  The Training
and Visit System by Daniel Benor, James Q. Harrison and Michael Baxter
(World Bank, 1984); and Training and Visit Extension by Daniel Benor
and Michael Barter (World Bank, 1984).



- 5 -
(DEOs). The DEOs supervise 176 rield Extension Assistants (FEAs) who,
helped by their supervisors, are in daily contact with farmers. AFMET
estimates that about 124,000 farm families have been covered, just over
half of all farm families in the area.
1.17      Training is conducted in two tiers.  Pre-season workshops for
senior staff and induction and refresher training take place at the Farm
Management Extension Training Center (FKETC) at AFMET Headquarters at
Afgoi. Monthly FEA training, in tasks to be performed and related
technology, are conducted by SMSs at Extension Training Centers (ETCs) at
Jenale, Jowhar and Bonka. These centers and Afgoi manage farms for
demonstration and adaptive trial work that precede the extensive on-farm
demonstration program. The trial/demonstration programs are directed by
the SMSs.
1.13      In general, AFMET has succeeded in gaining the confidence of
tarmers in the project area and in demonstrating practices that result in
protitable yield increases (paras. 1.33 to 1.34). Shortcomings that
emerged and wouJd be dealt with in this repeater project include inadequate
research and research/extension linkages, poor vehicle maintenance that
restricted extension staff mobility, inadequate housing for field staff in
their operational areas and the limited availability of trained manpower.
Research
1.19      Tne extension service depends on effective research to identify
technology to convey to farmers. Therefore, the status of research,
particularly in tha major arable areas of Southern Somalia, where the main
extension effort is concentrated, is of key relevance to the project. In
1984, at Government invitation, the International Service for National
Agricaltural Research conducted a detailed study of national research
requirements. Resultant recommendations were comprehensive and constituted
a master plan for crop and livestock research. In general, since that
time, plans for developing agricultural research in Somalia have been based
on the recommendations of that study.
1.20      The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) of the Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible for crop production research, while the Ministry
of Livestock, Forestry and Range handles livestock research. The
Agricultural Faculty of the Somali National University also conducts
research. There are also some projects with research units that
investigate project specific problems, but the results of these efforts are
usually more widely applicable. Thus, the Bonka Kesearch Station in the
baidoa is a component ot the Bay Region P.2ea Development Project (BRADP),
and the Aburrin Station near hargeisa, is part of the North West
Agricultural Development Project - Phase II. Another example of project
related research is that attached to the Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Farming
project recently appraised by IDA. The extension system has also developed
a capacity to lay out field trials for verification of technology under
varied field conditions.
1.21      The above research programs generally reflect correct priorities
for improving crop production in the major arable areas, including related
agronomy and plant protection work. The importance of water management and



-6-
salinity control in irrigated areas9 and of water conservation in rainfed
areas, is now well understood. The most notable success, which is having a
major impact on the economy, is the irrigated maize package, which consists
of an improved variety and agricultural practices developed by Central
Agricultural Research Station (CARS), field tested and verified by
Extension. In rainfed areas, success has been confined to techniques of
moisture conservation, such as long fallow in semi-mechanized farming, and
bunding in the North West, though recent ionka results show promise.
1.22      ARI is responsible for CARS (Afgoi) and for regional stations at
Gelib (Juba region), donka and Aburrin (Map IBRD No. 20121), CARS and
Gelib deal with irrigated agriculture, while Bonka and Aburrin cater for
lowland and highland rainfed agriculture respectively. The stations cover
the main arable areas of Somalia adequately. However, ARI lacks staff and
Is not able to exercise control over the stations, which operate
independently. Except for Gelib, the stations have been supported under
different donor-assisted projects. CARS, for example was supported by
USAID originally, and then benefitted from PAO executed UNDP assistance,
that was scheduled to end in December, 1986. Bonka and Aburrin have been
financed through separate World Bank projects (Credits 635-SO, 972-SO and
1538-SO), and are managed and administered by their respective project
management units. Research program planning is done by each station
independently. The National Research Policy Planning Committee -
comprising MOA, the Agricultural Faculty, ARI and AFMET - has not been
active, Since each station serves a distinct agro-ecological area this has
not been a serious drawback. But coordination is needed to ensure that:
(a) adequate research/extension linkages are maintained; (b) problems
identified by the extension service are adequately addressed by research;
(c) station facilities (e.g. CARS lal'oratories) are shared as needed; (d)
there is station collaboration to tackle common problems; (e) there is
integration of non-MOA research work into the national program; and (f)
reports of results are freely available to other research workers and
extension staff.
1.23      Fluctuating external assistance and GOS lack of funds to sustain
adequate research is the main reason why research output has been
disappointing. Bonka and CARS are the stations most relevant to
extension, Their status illustrates the changing fortunes of research
programs in Somalia, Until recently, the. Bonka station was moribund. At
present, it has adequate funding, good buildings and equipment, terms of
service are attractive enough to retain local scientists and an
enthusiastic technical assistance team is in place, but future funditLg is
not certain.   Assured funding to sustain the operation of the Bonka
station at the present level is therefore needed.



- 7 -
1.24    The main problems outlined above that would be dealt with by this
project are to improve research coordination and planning and
research/extension linkage and to ensure strong research programs by
assuring funding for the Bonka program, Since different donors finance
parts of the national program, donor coordination is essential to ensure
effective and sustained research and would be addressed by the project.
C. Bank G-oup Role and Strategy
1.25      Bank Group commitments to Somalia to date, total US$303 million,
consisting of 31 IDA credits and 2 IFC investments. Thirteen projects are
under implementation. Over thirty percent of total IDA lending has been
for agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest about
equally divided amongst education, water supply, ports, energy, industry
and technical assistance. An Agricultural Inputs Program was approved in
FY85 and a Livestock Health Services project in FY86. An Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program (Credit Nos. 1711-SO and A-20-SO), which has
important conditionality both for the agriculture sector in general and for
this proposed project in particular, 2/ received Board approval in June
1986. A Semi-mechanized Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Project wan approved on
March 31, 1987.
1.26      Project implementation experience in Somalia has been mixed.  A
number of agricultural projects suffered from overambitious design, and
cofinancing arrangements caused some coordination difficulties, resulting
in major changes after mid-term reviews and reduced benefit expectations.
Progress on the AFMET project has been satisfactory as well as on the
Northwest Region Agricultural Development project and the main production
targets projected at appraisal have been met or exceeded. Projects in the
roads, ports and water sectors have been more successful than in
agriculture. Staffing and management problems have Impeded effective
preparation and implementation of some projects. Somalia's disbursement
performance on projects assisted by the Bank Group has been satisfactory,
being some 85 percent higher than the average for Eastern and Southern
Africa.
1.27      The Bank Group assistance strategy for Somalia is to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the
public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for
domestic and external resource mobilization and allocation, to improve
pricing policy and marketing systems, and to increase production and
exports. The aim is to support further use of existing capacity and to
help lay the foundations for longer term growth. Issues in public
enterprise reform are expected to become an increasingly important
component of the policy dialogue, and the intention is to support
Government in its stated policy of disposing of unviable public
enterprises, and in its stimulation of the private sector,
2/ Relating to improvements in grain marketing and food aid management,



-8-
1.28      Within this general approach, the strategy for the agriculture
sector, contained in the Sector Survey (para. 1.07), proposes a phtsed
approach to emable Somalia to put into place a largely self sustaining
agricultural sector, which supports overall economic growth, provides for
increased food production to increase farm incomes and reduce import
dependency, increased export earnings, and provides, to the extent
possible, productive employment in the sector. It highlights expanded crop
production as a priority in Somal-a's future agricultural growth strategy
to be achieved through the intent behind tnis proposed project, the
strengthening of extension and research, also through the expansion of
areas under semi-mechanized long fallow rainfed farming and through
irrigation rehabilitation and expansion. These approaches will require
sound economic policies, which include incentive prices for producers,
further improvements in the marketing and input supply systems,
rationalization of the tood aid program, and a realistic role for the
public sector vis-a-vis the emerging private sector, Crop production
support such as development of water use and drainage management systems,
introduction of equitable land tenure rights and adequate levels of cost
recovery are also needed.
D. The Agricultural Extension and Farm Management
Training Project - Cr. 905-SO
Implementation
1.29      The project became eftective on August 29, 1180.  Its main
objective was to establish an agricultural extension system. The project
also included components related to the management of large state-owned
farms. Since GUS emphasis is on improving smallholder farming, state-farm
related components would be discontinued.
1.30      The project was cofinanced by the African Development Fund (ADF),
USAID and EEC. Implementation has been slower than anticipated and the
closing date has been extended by two years. After initial teething
troubles, implementation progress became more satisfactory particularly
after some redirection of efforts resulting from the mid-term review. The
activities of the extension service were more focussed on the main
irrigated farming areas, there was a 50% staff reduction and finance
management was tightened up. In general, physical targets including
construction, procurement, technical assistarce and training have been
attained except for some civil works, due - a fall in the dollar value of
the ADF currency during the project period.
1.31      Project implementation faced some other difficulties, which
contain lessons for the future: (i) Somalia's administrative system and
the limited trained manpower could not meet the requirements of
implementation of a tull-fledged extension project unaided or promptly;
(ii) the lead time required for the extension system to take root was quite
long and technical assistance could not compress this; (iii) multiple
donors with different views on extension methodology added to the problems
of p=oJect management; (iv) an adaptive research component would have
increased the effectiveness of the extension system; and (v) inadequate



- 9 -
arrangements for vehicle maintenance hampered field staff mobility.   The
proposed project would support measures to overcome these difficulties.
Achievement and Impact
1.32      The project has 9t'cceeded in a major institution building effort
in establishing the extension and training services already described
(paras. 1.14 to 1.18) that tormulate and deliver useful agricultural
advice. These services have made a significant contribution to irrigated
agricultural production in the Lower and Middle Shebelli Regions and to a
lesser extent to rainfed production in the Bay Region. There, technology
improvement to counter the harsh environment, does not yet offer farmers a
package for increasing production comparable to that of irrigated areas.
The contribution of extension to production growth was greatly enhanced by
the increase in producer motivation, as a result of GOS policy action to
ensure adequate incentives. The project has proved that with adequate
incentives, farmers adopt proven extension recommendations.
1.33      Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) studies undertaken by AFMET
provide data relating to the project impact. The results of the 1984 Gu
season 3/ M&E survey indicate a large difference in rates of adoption,
between contact and non-contact farmers, of four key management practices
on maize and sorghum crops, recommended by extension workers (Table 1.1).
Table 1.1
Rates of Adoption of Key Management Practices for Maize and Sorghum By
Contact and Non-Contact Farmers Under the T&V System
N  a   i   z   e                  S o r g h u m
Region          Lower Shebelli         Middle Shebelli             Bay
Contact   Non-      Contact    Non-      Contact    Non-
Practices                   Contact              Contact               Contact
(Percentages of adopters to total sample in the category)
Row Planting        96.7     34.5       100.0     30.5        97.0        1.6
Spacing             90.5     31.5       100.0     22.5        87.3        1.6
Timely Planting    82.5      82.0        75.0     77.8       100.0      100.0
Weeding Twice       47.3     66.2        72.2     45.9        41.2       35.0
a/ Irrigated or flooded
b/ Rainfed
Source: M&E Reports.
3/ March/April to June rainy season,



- 10 -
It is particularly significant that low cost management practices, such as
row planting and spacing, which are particularly suitable for Somali
smallholders, have a strong positive correlation with exposure to
extension. An estimated 25,000 farmers were regarded as adopters, who are
practicing the improved farming recommendations.
1.34      The M&E crop cutting surveys indicate that yields of contact
farmers have greatly exceeded those of non-contact farmers during the past
three years (Table 1.2).
Table 1.2
Crop Cutting Survey Yields Obtained During 1983-1985 in Extension Areas
M  a  i  z  e             S  o  r  g  h  u  m
Contact    Non-              Contact    Non-
Contact   Diff.              Contact  tDiff.
-----------Qtls/ha a/----------------------
1983                 27.0     22.3       4.7        9.2      9.4     -0.2
1984                 28.0     22.3       5.7       8.3       5.7      2.3
1985                 21.1     11.8       9.3       11.7      6.3      5.4
1/ I Qtl = 100 kg.
Source:  h&E Reports.
1.35      AFMET commissioned a consultant study to evaluate the impact of
the project. The main findings of this "Review of the Extension Service
Component from 1981-85" are: (a) extension recommendations for maize and
sorghum are economically sound at the new, higher prices and at open market
exchange rates; (b) the overall adoption rates of around 60% for contact
farmers and 25% for the non-contact farmers are acceptable, especially
since they are to some extent determined by input (seed and insecticides)
availability; (c) farmers adopting packages of improved practices exceed
assumptions in the SAR, and this adopter group is emerging earlier than
oredicted; (d) field staff morale is high, and after housing of FkAs in the
villages and establishing regular visit programs, the FEA-farmer
relationship appears very positive; (e) the lack of involvement by outside
research agencies has weakened the development of extension messages; (f)
field trials conducted by extension staff made signiticant contributions to
the development of present recommendations, but such efforts cannot
substitute for a strong long-term research system; (g) the project has
equalled or exceeded original SAR targets.



- 11 -
IIL THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Main Features
Project Rationale
2.01      The extension service set up under the first phase project has
proved beneficial to the farmers and has demonstrated the feasibility of
making Somali farmers adopt simple, low cost technologies to increase their
Incomes. Government policies, particularly deregulation of crop marketing
have resulted in adequate incentives to stimulate agricultural production,
As shown in the first project, this policy environment favors technology
adoption by farmers, and therefore augurs well for the success of a
repeater extension project. However, because of the novelty of extension,
only a minority of farmers became adopters. The stage is now set for a
continuing extension effort to reach the majority of farmers. The
Government requires continued financial support to consolidate the gains
made under the First Phase project, increase the effectiveness of the
extension service through removal of the present deficiencies, and sustain
a viable extension program in the agricultural development process.
2.02      At the commencement of the first phase project there were limited
technological recommendations confined to irrigated crops which extension
could draw on for transmitting to farmers (Table 1.1 and Annex 9). The
field trials undertaken by the extension system provided much of the
production recommendationir - .r both irrigated and rainfed crops. They also
formed the basis for training extension staff. Though these
recommendations contributed substantially to the success of the project,
and to extension gaining credibility among farmers, generation of
technology by extension cannot be sustained for long without strong
research support. It is necessary, therefore, to strengthen the research
capability in Somalia, and the research-extension linkages.
Sbecti' es
2.03      The broad objectives of the proposed project would be to increase
agricultural production and farmers' incomes by:
(i)  supporting the continued and improved operations of the extension
service established under the Agricultural Extension and Farm
Management Training Project (Cr, 905-SO) in eight regions; and
(li)  institution building in agricultural research to improve research
program planning, coordination between research agencies and
strengthening of research-extension linkages.
The project aims to increase extension service coverage from about 125,000
to about 158,000 farm families, or about 75% of all farm families in the
operational area.
Main Features
2.04      To accomplish the above objectives, the project would provide
for:



- 12 -
(a)  strengthenlAg of the extension system in 8 regions in Southetn
Somalia, namely, Lower Shebelli, Middle Shebelli, Bay, Lower
Juba, Middle Juba, Gedo, Hiran and Bakool (Map IBRD No. 20121),
through (i) provision of housing, infrastructural, transport,
equipment and technical assistance support to the Extension
Headquarters at Afgoi and the Field Extension Organization and
(ii) selective increase of field extension staff and provision of
adequate district level supervisory staff, and project operating
costs;
(b)  upgrading the training program for extension staff through
improved facilities at the training centers, increased and
improved training courses, and expanded field trials program,
supported by provision of teaching aids and equipment, and
technical assistance; and
(c)  strengthening and coordinating agricultural research through (i)
the establishment of a strong Research Directorate within MUA and
support to the Directorate in the form of technical assistance,
vehicles and equipment, (ii) support for ongoing research at the
Bonka Station, including vehicles, equipment and technical
assist,nce, once the present funding arrangements cease, and
(iii) the establishment of a research support fund, to be used to
commission adaptive research focussing on farmers' priority
problems.
B. Detailed Features
Extension (US$13.8 million) 4/
2.05      Extension would continue to follow the Training and Visit system
(T&V). The ratio of the number ot farm families to Field Extension Agents
(FEAs) would be about 800:1, but may vary depending on farm size, density
of holdings and cropping system. The project would reach a total of
158,000 settled farm families in the eight regions (para. 2.04).
(a)       Project Head Office (US$6.3 million)
2,06      Civil Works.  The project would provide aaditional housing at
Afgoi Headquarters, since existing housing is insufficient, rental housing
is difficult to find and costly, and commuting from Mogadishu is
unproductive. Ten type B houses for senior and middle level staff and 10
type C houses for technicians and supporting staff would be provided. The
project would also provide funds tor some improvement in existing
infrastructure. About 3.1 km. of the access road leading to the main
office building would be surfaced with asphalt. A car repair shed would be
provided to improve working facilities for the mechanics, and a Central
Workshop would be provided for undertaking major repairs to project
vehicles.
4/ All costs refer to baseline costs.



- 13 -
2.07      Technical Assistance, Vehicles and Equipment.  To maintain the
PMU established in the first phase project, the project would finance about
13 staff years technical assistance to employ a Technical Manager, and a
Financial Controller. The project would also finance local salaries and
operating costs of project staff which would be slightly strengthened.
lwelve statf months of Technical Assistance (short-term consultants) would
also be provided for special studies in extension methodology. To replace
vehicles bought in the first phase and provide additional mobility to
extension staff, the project would finance eight tour-wheel drive vehicles,
one four-WD twin cab pick-up, two saloon cars, one bus (for transporting
staff mostly secretarial, administrative and accounts staff, who commute
from llogadishu)and four motorcycles. The project would also provide office
equipment and furniture. To enable PMU to import and store fuel in bulk,
tlhree fuel storage tanks and two fuel tankers would be provided. To
facilitate transhipment of vehicles to the Central Workshop for repairs,
the project would provide one tractor-trailer unit and one low-loaded
trailer. The monitoring and evaluation unit would be strengthened by 12
staff months of M&E consultancy in the initial years of the project, and
purchase of a micro computer.
2.08       Inadequate maintenance of project vehicles proved to be a serious
problem in the first phase. To remedy this situation and to control
maintenance costs, the project would support the operation of well-
equipped, modern workshops at Afgoi and Shalambood, and provide for an
internationally recruited Workshop Superintendent. To supervise
construction of civil works, an internationally recruited construction
engineer would be financed under the project. To help AFMET finalize
designs of civil works and prepare tender documents the project would also
finance 36 staff months of procurement consultancy.
(b)       Field Extension Organization (US$7.5 million)
2.04      Staff.  The Field Extension Organization would continue to be
headed by the director of Extension and would comprise headquarters staff
and field staff at regional, district and village levels. Field extension
woula be strengthened by the addition of 20 FEAs each in the Middle
Shebelli and Bay Regions, to cover about 34,000 more farm families.  Seven
additional SMSs, including SMSs in water management in Lower and Middle
Shebelli regions, and two additional DEOs in the Iaiddle Shebelli region
would be provided.
2.10      Civil Works.  The project would include: (a) construction of a
regional office building (100 mi) at Jowhar as the one presently in use
belorngs to the Jowhar Agricultural Secondary School; (b) rehabilitation of
the existing building at Yontey; (c) construction of 3 Type A houses (100
mz each) one each at Jowhar, Bonka and Yontey for the REO; (d) construction
of 14 Type B houses (75 m2 each) at Jenale (2), Jowhar (4), Yontey (3),
bonka (3), Gamba-Hare (Gedo) (1), and Bulo Bueti (Hiran) (1); (e)
construction of 20 Type C houses (50 m2 each) for DEOs in Lower
Shebelli (1), Middle Shebelli (5), Lower/Middle Juba (5), Bay (5), Gedo (2)
and Hiran (2) regions; (f) construction of 196 new houses for FEAs; and (g)
completion of staff quarters (I Type A, 3 Type B, and 5 Type C) at Jenale
commenced in the first phase project. The project would thus fulfill a



- 14 -
prerequisite of operating the extension service effectively by ensuring
that all field staff in the extension organization are provided with
residential quarters. This was found to be essential during the First
Phase. While offices, Types A, B and C housing would be of concrete block
construction, FEA housing would be of timber frame, mud wall and iron roof
design costing about US$9,600 each. They would be sited in villages
central to each FEA's operating area.
2.11      VehicleadEquipme nt.  The project would provide 2 4WD vehicles
and 5 motorcycles to the Extension Headquarters at Afgoi, and 1 4WD for
each of the REOs and 1 4WD twin cab pickup for the Regional Office staff in
each region. Out of a total of 216 FEAs in the proposed project 100 FEAs
would be provided with new motorcycles. Criteria for selection of FEAs to
be provided with motorcycles and the terms and conditions for allotment of
motorcycles to FEAs would be finalized by AFMET to the satisfaction of IDA,
and assurances .o this effect were obtained at negotiations.
2.12      In addition, the project would provide: (a) fuel storage tanks
and 15 KVA generators in all regional offices; (b) office equipment and
furniture at regions; (c) shortwave radios to field extension to facilitate
farmers' listening to farm broadcasts; and (d) salaries, allowances and
operating costs for the field extension organization.
Training (US$5.1 million)
(a)       Fam Management and Extension Training Center (FMETC)
2.13      Buildings constructed for FMETC, at Afgoi in the first phase
project would be adequate to enable it to fulfill its training
responsibilities under the project. The project would finance the
construction of a recl ation/informaation hall (100 sq. m) at Afgoi for the
use of participants of training programs. Emphasis would be on improving
the training facilities at FMETC and equipping the media unit to enable
production of slide presentations and video packages on crop production
technologies. Provision would also be made for 1 minibus and 2 4WD twin
cab pickups.
2.14      Technical Assistance.  The Project would provide an
internationally recruited Director of Training for the first 4 years, and
56 staff months of technical assistance (short term consultants) in the
PMETC. Nine staff years overseas training of Somali staff would be
provided. Twenty-four staff months of consultancy for the maintenance of
agricultural machinery and training Somali staff in their maintenance would
also be provided.
(b)       Extension Training Centers (ETCs)
2.15      Civil Works.  The facilities at the ETCs would include a 5 ha
farm each for adaptive trials. Jenale and Bonka ETCs have their own
buildings and facilities, while the Jowhar ETC, as a temporary arrangement,
utilizes the facilities of the Agricultural Secondary School. The project
would establish a fourth ETC at Yontey to meet the training requirements of
Lower and Middle Juba regions. More specifically: (i) at Jowhar, all
buildings/facilities such as classroom, dormitories, dining hall, toilets/



- 15 -
baths, library, workshop, storage etc. would be newly built; (ii) at
Jenale, new library, toilets/bath, open shed and drying floor would be
provided, and office, classroom, dormitories, dining hall/kitchen, workshop
and storage would be renovated; (iii) at Bonka, the same number of new
buildings as those at Jenale with an addition of one input store would be
provided and the existing buildings, i.e. offices, classroom, dormitory,
dining hall/kitchen, and workshops would be renovated. Other works to be
funded include road !orks at Bonka and Jowhar; water suppplies improvements
at these two centets and at Jenale; and irrigation rehabilitation at
Jenale, Jowhar and Yontey to provide about 5 ha irrigated land at these
centers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Jowhar ETC
would continue to function from its present premises until the proposed
buildings and facilities are completed, and that adequate land, adjacent to
the Agricultural Secondary School, would be transferred to AFMET for the
construction of Jowhar ETC not later than October 31, 1987.
2.16      The newly proposed ETC at Yontey would use the buildings
belongirng to the Ministry of Education, adjacent to the AFMET regional
headquarters building at Yontey, which have remained unused for some six
years. The project would renovate the buildings for use as office,
classroom and stores. The rest of the facilities, such as the library,
dormitory, toilet/bath, dining hall, kitchen, workshop, open shed and
drying floor would be constructed under the project. Assurance was
obtained that GOS would transfer ownership and administration of the
Ministry of Education buildings to AFMET by December 31, 1987.
2.17      Vehicles and Equipment.  A 4-WD twin cab pickup, a mobile
communication unit equipped with slide and movie projectors, generator, and
video/TV monitor would be provided at each of the ETCs. The training
facilities at ETCs would be improved through provision of library and
communications equipment, teaching aids and furniture. Agricultural
machinery would be provided at Jowhar, Jenale and Yontey and power tiller
at Bonka, to allow timely land preparation for undertaking field trials. A
range of animal drawn farm implements and draft animals would be provided,
to test and demonstrate their use to farmers.
2.18      Operating  Costs.  The project would provide boarding expenses of
trainees at the FMETC and ETCs, and of farmers at ETCs. Local salaries and
other operating costs would also be financed,
Agricultural Research (US$4.5 million)
(a)       Research Directorate
2.19      The need for coordinating MOA research has been highlighted
(para. 1.22) and for that purpose the project would upgrade the existing
ARI (para, 1.20) by establishment of a Research Directorate. It would be
headed by a high level Director General, supported by an internationally
recruited Research Advisor. The main objective of the Directorate would be
to foster closer linkages between the various research stations, project
research units, and the University faculty; also between research and
extension services; and provide a mechanism for research planning. Field
trials of extension will continue to play a key role in testing research



- 16 -
station findings in different locations. The establishment of the
Directorate would take place prior to Board presentation. It was agreed at
negotiations that the appointment of the Director General of Research with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, and his taking up his
post, would be a condition of effectiveness. Assurance was obtained that
the Research Advisor would be appointed and would take up his post by
December 31, 1987,
2.20      Project would finance the cost of the Director General, six staff
years technical assistance for the Advisor, who would be a research
specialist, salaries of supporting staff, purchase of two vehicles, office
and library equipment, micro-computer, books and journals and funding for a
six-monthly research report. In addition, a US$500,000 research support
fund would be provided to help any station or other research unit to carry
out adaptive research that would benefit farmers in the project area. Such
work could include the testing of the applicability of foreign technology
in Somalia and socio-economic research. The fund would be administered by
the Director General and assurances were obtained that criteria and
procedures listed in Annex 5 would be used to prepare, select and epprove
research work to be financed from the Fund, and that proposals for research
abroad or costing more than US$100,000 would be sent to IDA for review.
The draft contracts for the sub-projects to be financed under the Research
Support Fund, would be approved by IDA. Approval of such contracts would
be a condition of disbursements.
(b)       Bonka Research Station
2.21      Sustained research support is critical for the effectiveness of
extension. While funding suppcrt for CARS appears promising, continuation
of research at Bonka, when the Bay Region Project closes, in 1988 is not
assured (para. 1.23). This project would therefore fund the continuation
of research at Bonka, after the present funding arrangements cease, which
would enable GOS to retain the same technical assistance agency if it
continues to prove satisfactory.
2.22      To ensure continuation of ongoing research on this important
station, the project would finance 16 consultant years of technical
assistance to Bonka station for a full time crop improvement
agronomist/breeder, dryland agronomist,entomologist and soil scientist.
There would also be another 38 months of short term technical assistance
for animal traction and farm implements, and farming systems research
specialists and other short-term assistance not yet identified. Some civil
works, equipment, replacement of worn-out vehicles and machinery, and
operating costs, would also be funded.
2.23      Some support for Bonka may materialise from other donors in
future, but this could not be determined at appraisal. Savings generated
as a result of alternate sources of funding for all or some of the above
requirements at Bonka, would be a-vailable to the Research Directorate for
sponsoring project related adaptive research,



- 17 -
C. Focus on Women
2.24       In Somalia, due to preoccupation ot men with animal nusbandry,
women play a vital role as tarmers, managers, decision makers and farm
laborers. In addition, they are entirely responsible for harvesting,
threshing, storage and utilization of tood crops. lhe extension system
should theretore focus on training women farmers to achieve better
technology diffusion.
2.25      The following measures would be taken under the project to bring
about better focus on women: (a) thie proportion ot women contact farmers
would be increased; (b) etforts would also be made to increase the uiumber
ot women extension staff; (c) each hTC would nave a Training Ofticer,
preferably a woman, with special responsibility tor women's training; (d)
FLA visits would be made at a time which suit tne convenience of women; (c)
farm implements which would reduce the drudgery of women tarm labor would
be identified, developed and propagated, and the Research Fund would be
used for funding such ettorts.
D. Niew Extension Responsibilities
2.26      An important new responsibility of the extension service would be
livestock development. Extension recommendations would incLude methods of
improving the value of crop residues as animal feeds, animal nutrition and
growing forage crops along with tood crops. Poultry extension which was
started on a limited scale in Lower Shebelli and Bay Regions with
recommendations on feeding, housing and selection of breed, and received
encouraging farmer response, would be intensified, Agro forestry is
another area which would be covered by the extension service. Farmers
would be motivated to grow trees for fuelwood on the periphery of their
fields which would provide shelter belts without adverse effect on normal
crop production, besides providing fuel for the family. The extension
service would give advice on the species/type of trees to the planted, and
the seedlings would be supplied to farmers from forest nurseries. Subject
matter expertise to enable the extension system to cover those tunctional
areas adequately would be provided by the I!LFR.
2.27      Other areas which would be covered by the extension service are
bee-keeping and animal traction. Limited apiculture extension in the first
phase project in Lower Shebelli was successful, and this activity would be
expanded in Lower and Middle Shebelli regions. Extension in animal
traction involves teaching farmers how to train animals and use them in
farming, and miore importantly identitication, development and propagation
of suitable farm implements. The linK research station for this purpose
would be Bonka, which would have a specialist on animal drawn implements,
(para. 2.22).



- 18 -
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$26.7 million
equivalent, of which US$19.7 million, or 74%, are foreign exchange costs;
mnd US$7.0 million, or 26%, are local costs. The Government does not levy
impore duties on Internationally financed goods for the agriculture
aector. Consequently, all capital items are included without such duties.
Of the total project costs, US$10.4 million (39%) would consist of
investment costs while US$16.3 million (61%) would consist of recurrent
costs. Physical contingencies have been provided as follows: for
rehabilitation of civil works, 15%; for new civil works and operating costs
(excluding salaries), 10%; and for vehicles and salaries, 5%. Price
contingencies have been applied to all cost items on the basis of annual
inflation rates of 5% for 1987, 1% for 1988-90, and 3.5% thereafter,
reflecting recent IDA guidelines on expected increases of international
prices. The costs shown in Table 3.1 are estimated using the exchange rate
US$1 = So.Sh. 83.0 which was the official exchange rate prevailing at the
time of appraisal. This rate was being adjusted every month, as agreed
between the Government and the IMP, with the expectation that it would
eventually converge with the free market rate. However, the adjustments
ceased in December 1986 when the official exchange rate reached US$1
So.Sh 91.4. The free market rate (import accounts) was about US$1 -
So.Sh. 136 in January 1987, compared with the average rate on the foreign
exchange auction of US$1   So.Sh. 122 on January 3, 1987.  No separate
local price contingency rate is applied, and all costs are inflated at the
projected international rate of price increases. Details of component
costs are shown in Annex 3 and are summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1
Project Cost Summary
SLIA
SECOND AGRI(LTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUJARY
(SO.SH. million)  (US$ Nillion)          2 Total
--------- -%Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchar*ge  Costs
A. PROJECT HEAD OFFICE    102.6  420.2  522.8  1.2   5.1  6.3     80    27
B. FIELD EXTENSION ORGANIZATION  232.6  386.2  618,9  2.8   4.7  7.5  62    32
C, TRAINING               117,0  305,4  422.,3  1,4   3.7  5,1    72    22
D, AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH   50.8  322.0  372.8  0.6   3.9  4,5     86    19
Total BASELINE COSTS       503.0 1433.8 1,936,8  6,1  17,3 23.3    74    100
Physical Contirgencies    39,8  107.4  147.3  0.5   1t3  1.8     73      8
Price Contingencies       38.1  95.6  133.8  0.5   1.2  1.6      71      7
Total PROJECT COSTS        581,0 1I636,8 2M217,8  7.0  19.7 26,7   74    115
..n  =5- =  __.___-   = I: ....=.. .   2::_ .   _ :  ..._: ====:-= .......X
___-__=______________________________---- -- --------------- -- ----- --- -- -..................................................- 



- 19 -
3.02       Local costs of construction have been estimated in Somali
Shillings and coniverted to IJS$ by using the exchange rate of IUS$ - 83.0
So.Sh. Foreign exchange costs of construction have been estimated in US$
as of December 1986, and updated to March 1987 (base costs). Vehicles and
equipment are estimated in US dollars at appraisal and are not expected to
change by March 1987. Estimates of operating costs are made in US dollars,
based on the rates for fuel and maintenance at the time of appraisal, and
are not expected to change substantially by March 1987. Technical
assistance is mostly covered in foreign exchange which includes travel,
allowances, overheads and salaries. The only local costs for technical
assistance are per diems and house rent, which are listed separately.
Salaries for local staff are stated in dollar terms at the time of
appraisal. Since local salaries are constant in So.Sh. terms, the
implication is that a continuous change in So.Sh. parity with the dollar
would result in the dollar cost of this category declining relative to the
figures in cost tables. Under these circumstances, should salaries for the
Somali civil service be adjusted to reflect inflation, the provisions made
in the cost tables would be adequate.
B. Financing
3.03      The project would be financed by a proposed IDA credit of US$12.7
million.  It would, over an eight-year period, finance 100% of the
project's foreign exchange costs related to technical assistance and 57% of
operating costs and local salaries. The African Development Fund,
appraised the proposed project in February, 1987, and has agreed to finance
100% of the costs of civil works, vehicles and equipment. The GOS's
contribution would be about US$3.6 million, equivalent to about 13% of
project costs, for financing some operating costs and local salaries. The
proposed financing plan is given in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2
Financing Plan
IDA               ADF            GOS             Total
----------------------USS Million ---------------------
Amount    %      Amount   %      Amount   %      Amount    %
Local         2.1      17    2.2        21    2.7       75      7.0      26
Foreign      10.6      83    8.2        79    0.9       25    19.7       74
Total        12.7      100   10.4      100    3.6      100    26.7      100
% of Project Cost      48               39              13
3.04      IDA would finance operating costs and local salaries on a
declining basis, beginning with 80% and progressively reducing to 20%,
resulting in GOS bearing, overall, 43% of operating costs and local



- 20 -
salaries. The foreign exchange cost component of operating costs is mostly
for fuel which is a small proportion of the country's fuel consumption and
for machinery spare parts. This expenditure is spread over 7 years, hence
it should not cause undue strain on the government budget. However, to
assure the project with adequate operating funds, assurance was obtained
from GOS that provision would be made in the government recurrent budget
annually to include such funds.
3.05      Project Prepararion Facility:  A PPF of US$1.2 million has been
approved to facilitate early start up of project activitiee and provide
recurrent costs, including essential technical assistance, between the
Closing Date of Credit 905-SO and the effectiveness of the proposed
project. AFMET would also strengthen the training facilities at the FMETC
and the ETCs and purchase essential vehiclej and equipment. It would also
engage training consultants for the FMETC. Details of the PPF are set out
in Annex 3, Table 8.
C. Procurement
3.06      Items financed by ADF (civii works and vehicles/equipment) would
be procured according to ADF guidelines. Procurement procedures for the
items cove-red by operating costs and technical assistance categories, which
would be financed by IDA, are described in paras. 3.07-3.09 below.
Assurances were obtained that they would be observed.
Table 3.3
Procurement Schedule i/
(US$ Million)
Project Component               Procurement Method                   Total
ICB      LCB     Other 4/    N.A. 3/    Cost
Civil Works               4.9        2.9         0.2         -          8.0
Vehicles/Equipment        2.0        0.3         0.1         -          2.4
Technical Assistance       -          -          7.3         -          7.3
(7.3)        -         (7.3)
Local Salaries and
Operating Costs          -          -          4e4        4.0         8.4
(2.0)      (2.8)       (4.8)
Research Fund              -          -          0.6          -         0.6
(0.6)        -         (0.6)
Total              6.9       3.2        12.6         4.0        26.7
(9.9)      (2.8)      (12.7)
1/  Figures in parentheses are estimated amounts to be financed by IDA.
2/ Technical Assistance according to Bank guidelines, operating costs
(Fuel and Spares) international shopping with at least three
quotations.
3/ Local government procedures.



- 21 -
3.07      Technical Assistance and Training.  The employment of
internationally recruited experts and consultants (US$7.0 million) would be
in accordance with Bank's guidelines, with experience and qualifications
and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Overseas training
(US$254,000) would be by direct placement.
3.08      ,perating Costs.  Fuel (US$1.6 million) would be purchased
through the international shopping procedure with at least three price
quotations while spare parts (US$0.8 million) for machinery, equipment and
vehicles would be purchased by quotations from the manufacturers of the
equipment, other reliable parts manufacturers and dealers as appropriate.
3.09      Review of Documents.  All procurement documents for contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more and all technical assistance contracts would
be subject to review by IDA prior to award. The remaining contracts would
be subject to random review by IDA after contract award.
D. Disbursements
3.10      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over eight years
(Annex 4) against the following categories of expenditure:
(a)  Technical assistance, training and studies - 100%;
(b) Research support fund - 100%; and
(c) Local salaries and operating costs - a reducing percentage of
tranches of expenditure, starting from 80% and progressively
declining to 20%.
3.11    The disbursement profiles for Bank wide agriculture projects, and
for all Somalia agriculture projects, show that full disbursement has taken
an average of nine and a half and eight years respectively with about 94%
the funds for Somalia projects being disbursed over the first seven years.
The disbursement period of eight years assumed for the project is justified
by the fact that this is a second phase project following a successfully
implemented first phase project which would be fully disbursed in 8 years,
despite a number of difficulties which the project faced initially, and a
devaluation of Somali shillings against US dollars by about 1500%.
3.12      Disbursement against all items would be based on full
documentation except for operating costs and contracts for goods and
services less than US$20,000 which would be based on statements of
expenditure (SOE). AFMET and the Research Directorate would have adequate
staff and controls for the preparation of SOE's for which supporting
documentation should be kept and subsequently reviewed by auditors
(para.3,15). The iocumentation would be readily available for review by
IDA.



- 22 -
3.13    Special Accounts:  To ensure that funds for the project would be
made available when needed and to reduce the number of small applications
to be processed, two special accounts would be established in US dollars at
any bank convenient to GOS, and acceptable to IDA, for expenditures
relating to AFMET and the Research Directorate respectively. Upon credit
effectiveness, IDA would deposit an amount of US$350,000 in the APMET
special account and US$200,000 in the account of the Researchl Directorate.
These amounts correspond to about three months' expenditures under the
project including items to be procured through prudent shopping. All
disbursements on the accounts would be authorized by the General Manager
and Financial Controller for AFMET expenditures, and by the Director
General of Research and Financial Controller for the Research components.
As long as the station is managed by BRADP, Bonka Research Station
expenditures would be authorized by the Bay Region Project Management
(parao 4.17).
3.14    Government Counterpart Funds.  GOS would bear 43% of the cost of
local salaries and operating costs under the project. GOS should therefore
ensure that adequate Government counterpart funds are made available to the
project without interruption by making the necessary provision in the
Annual General Budget. In addition, GOS would maintain bank accounts for
the AFMET and the Research Directorate components with the Central Bank of
Somalia. GOS would transfer an amount of So.Sh. 30 million to the AFMET
account, and So.Sh. 15 million to the Research Directorate account, which
would constitute a revolving fund, to ensure availability of adequate funds
at all times for payment of salaries and operating costs, The amount of
money in the funds should not be allowed to drop below So.Sh. 10 million
and 5 million, respectively. Establishment of such revolving funds by GOS
and payment into them of So.Sh. 30 million and 15 million would be a
condition of effectiveness.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.15      AFMET would maintain the accounts for the Project Head Office,
Field Extension Organization and Training components of the project and the
Research Directorate for the research components, including accounts
related to contracts awarded by the Directorate out of the Research Fund.
The accounts relating to expenditures on Bonka Research Station, however,
would continue to be maintained by BRADP Management lTnit, and in case it is
terminated, the accounts would be maintained by the Research Directorate,
until alternative arrangements are concluded by GOS to the satisfaction of
IDA. Assurances were obtained from GOS at negotiation that accounts would
be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognised accounting
principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. IDA projects are already
audited by independent auditors and assurances were obtained from
Government at negotiations that all project units would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that the audit of AFMET and
other project accounts, including special audits on the special accounts
and for disbursements requested on the basis of SOEs, are sent to IDA, for
review, within six months of the end of the GOS financial year.



- 23 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Agencies and Coordination
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for the
project. Under the Ministry, AFMET would be the main project agency
responsible for all aspects of the extension and training components; the
Research Directorate would implement the research component except for the
part dealing with Bonka Research Station, which would be managed by the Bay
Region Agricultural Development Project Management Unit. In case this unit
ceases to operate, the Research Directorate would assume responsibility for
this part of the project also,
4.02      The Government would establish a Project Technical Coordination
Committee (PTCC) under the chairmanship of the Vice-Minister for
Agriculture, to review project impleiaentation every quarter; coordinate the
research program and research extension linkages, and the supply of inputs
to farmers on the basis of projections by the extension service.    The
General Manager AFMET, the Director General of Research, the Technical
Manager AFMET, the Research Advisor, directors of research stations, and
representatives of the Ministries of Livestock, Forestry and Range, and
Finance would be members of the PTCC.  The Technical Hanager AFHET woluld be
its Secretary. The draft terms of reference of the PTCC are given in Annex
6e Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the PTCC would be set up
not later than December 31, 1987, with terms of reference acceptable to
IDA.
B. Extension and Training
Project Management Unit
4.03      The existing PMT of AEMET would implement the extension and
training parts of the project (paras 2.06 - 2.18), PMU would also be
responsible for procurement for the extension and training parts, incltuding
execution of civil works, maintenance and repair of vehicles, agricultural
machinery and equipment, and distribution of goods procured by it to the
various units of the project under its control. AFMET would establish a
Central Store for stocking spares for vehicles, farm machinery and other
machinery and equipment, stationery items, office equipment, fuel and
lubricants, and furniture. The store, including workshop stores, would be
under the charge of a qualified trained Somali, reporting to the Financial
Controller (para. 4.05).
4.04      The organization of AFMET and the PMU are shown on Chart WB No.
31049. The General Manager would have overall responsibility for the
implementation of the AFMET components. He would continue to be assisted
by a Project Technical Manager and Financial Controller, both
internationally recruited. The detailed terms of reference for these three
senior executives are described in Annex 6. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the PMU would be maintained during the project period
with the same responsibilities as those assigned to it under the first



- 24 -
project, staffed with a General Manager, Project Technical Manager and
Financial Controller with qualifications and experience, acceptable to IDA.
4.05      The Project Technical Manager  would have overall responsibility
for extension, training and field trials. He would also be responsible for
bringing Lo the notice of research managers 5/ the constraints faced by
farmers in adoption of recommended technologTcal packages, and for
identifying areas where fresh adaptive research initiatives are called
for. He would also supervise the work of both the Director of Training and
the Director of Extension who will head the Field Extension Organization.
The Financial Controller would have primary responsibility for maintenance
of project accounts and ensuring expenditures in accordance with the norms
approved by IDA and adherence to the procedures for the procurement of
project goods as agreed at negotiations. He would also be responsible for
the preparation of the Annual Work Program (para. 4.24).
Extension Service
4.06      While the extension system under the project would essentially
follow the methodology of T & V, institutional training of farmers and farm
youth in the ETCs, special training programs for women, field days and
farmer's group meetings, farm broadcasts, and video/film shows would be
used to support field extension, The Field Extension Organization would be
headed by a Somali Director of Extension, with the rank of Assistant
General Manager. He would be responsible to the Project Technical Manager
for all technical matters. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
qualifications and experience of the Director of Extension would be
acceptable to IDA.
4.07      The extension organization in every region would be headed by a
Regional Extension Ofticer (REO), except that there would be a common REO
for the Lower and Middle Juba regions, with headquarters at Yontey. There
would be 7 REOs, the same number as in the first phase project. REOs of
Lower Shebelli, Middle Shebelli, Bay and Juba regions would also be
administratively responsible for the LTCs at Jenale, Jowhar, Bonka and
Yontey, respectively. There would be 24 District Extension Officers
(DEOs), as against 22 in the First Phase - two additional ones being added
in the Middle Shebelli region. The DEO is the first line supervisor, with
7 to 10 Field Extension Agents (FhAs) to supervise. FEAs are the frontline
extension workers in the T&V System, and would live in one of the villages
assigned to them. They should normally be diploma holders from the
Agricultural Secondary Schools. The duties and responsibilities of the
REOs, DEOs and FEAs are given in Annex 6.
Training
4.08      FMETC,  Induction training to new entrants would continue to be
emphasized. This training would be made more intensive and would have more
practical orientation. Tne FMETC would also organize a number of
in-service training programs for extension managers (DEOs/REOs) and SMSs,
and research staff on extension methods, extension management, and
5/ Includes Research Directorate, and all relevant research stations,
(CARS, Bonka, Gelib).



- 25 -
specialized subject matter areas such as, water management, rainfed
farming, irrigated farming, plant protection. Training of selected
practicing women farmers and farm youth would also be held. In addition,
the FMETC would hold seminars and workshops (Annex 8).
4.09      Besides running training programs at Afgoi, FMETC would: (i)
provide technical support to the ETCs; (ii) prepare a program for field
trials, in consultation with research, for every season and supervise its
implementation on the Afgoi farm, ETC farms and on the farms of selected
farmers; (iii) assemble the results of the trials, discuss them with
research staff, and prepare the lesson plans for extension staff on the
basis of the conclusions reached; (iv) extend training support to other
projects in Somalia, and particularly, cater to the training needs of the
livestock sector; (v) prepare audio-visual software for ETCs, and radio
broadcasts.
4.10      FMETC would be provided an internationally recruited Director of
Training with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. The
suggested Terms of Reference of the Director of Training are given in Annex
6. Several Somali staft have now returned from the USA with Masters'
degrees and more would be returning in the next few years. It would
therefore be possible to identify a suitable Somali professional who would
be able to take over as Director of Training during the course of the
project. Provision has, therefore, been made for an internationally
recruited Training Specialist only until 1990. He would initially be the
Director of Training, but after the appointment of the Somali Director
would stay on as Advisor until the end of the contract period. Assurances
were obtained that the Somali Director of Training would be appointed by
June 30, 1988, with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
4.11      Subject matter expertise to the FMETC would be provided by short
term consultants to be financed under the project. It is estimated that
about 56 months of consultancy would be required. The consultants would
visit Afgoi every year to develop curricula and handle training sessions
with Somali counterparts. Initially, they would spend 3 to 4 months every
year at Afgoi, but this period would be gradually reduced as the Somali
counterpart staff gain expertise, experience and confidence. Assurance
was obtained at negotiations that AFMET would assign to FMETC suitable
Somali staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA,in
agronomy, plant protection, livestock, agricultural implements,
communication and extension training, as counterparts to technical
assistance personnel.
4.12      Training in the ETCs.  In-service training would be provided each
season to the FEAs who have already been working in the fieid. The
duration of this training would be 3 weeks, and would include lectures,
group discussions, case work, besides practical training at the ETC farm.
The trainers would be the regional SMSs and the REOs who would be supported
by senior specialists from the i?ETC. There would be emphasis on problem
solving so that FEAs would be able to advise farmers with increased
confidence. ETCs would also organize one week training courses for farm
leaders twice every cropping season. In addition to the regular training
programs mentioned above, ETCs would hold special ad-hoc training programs



- 26 -
for FEAs on aspects important for their area, such as oxen training,
bee-keeping, poultry rearing.
4.13      Overseas Training.  Short term skill specific training programs
would be preferred to graduate programs. Areas of emphasis would be crop
production (maize, sorghum, oilseeds, legumes), plant protection and water
management. CIMMYT, IITA, ICRISAT and other International Research
Institutes regularly organize short duration courses with focus on field
application of improved technology under rainfed as well as irrigated
conditions. The project would sponsor REOs, SMSs, and selected DEOs to
attend these training programs.
4.14      Study Tours and Workshops.  In addition to institutional
training, extension statfi would also be sent on study trips to countries
with agro-ecological conditions similar to Somalia's, which have a longer
experience with the implementation of extension projects. Finally, AFMET
would periodically organize workshops and seminars on selected topics and
invite participation of senior officials of the iPdnistry ot Agriculture,
other projects and public and private organizations.
C. Research
Administration
4.15      Research DiTectorate.  A Research Management Unit comprising the
Director General, Research Advisor, and the Financial Controller of AFhET
would be responsible for implementing ail the research components of the
project except Bonka as indicated below. The Director General assisted by
the Advisor would handle all policy and technical aspects of the
Directorate's work, while the AFIET Financial Controller would supervise
administrative tasks, including finance, accounting, procurement, personnel
administration and credit withdrawal procedures. Administration
arrangements would be reviewed oree every year jointly by GOS and IDA, and
adjustments as necessary would be made,
4.16      The Director General, a Somali national, as the head of the
Research Directorate, would be responsible for carrying out the objectives
of the Directorate (para. 2.19). The xesearch Advisor, who wou2d be
internationally recruited, would assist the Director General in carrying
out his responsibilities. Their detailed terms of reference,
qualifications and required experience are given in Annex 6.
4.17      Bonka Research Station.  The bay Region Agricultural Development
Project management would implement this component. It would, inter alia,
be responsible tor procurement, disbursement, staff hiring (including
consultants), accounting and reporting. As indicated (para. 4.01), in case
this unit should cease to operate, the Research Directorate would become
responsible for implementing this component until alternative management
arrangements are concluded by GOS to the satisfaction ot IDA.



- 27 -
The Role of the Research Directorate
4.18      The rov.e ot the Directorate would include:  (i) technology
identification; (ii) research program planning; (iii) research
coordination; and (iv) research extension linkage. The Directorate would
have the primary responsibility for the preparation of long and medium term
research strategy. It would also coordinate the work of the research
stations, review progress of research programs and plans for new programs
and make its recommendations on the merits of the research programs of the
stations or changes needed to bring tnem in line with the research
strategy. It would also keep in constant touch with all stations and
units; provide advice to the stations on technical subjects; encourage
close linkage with extension services; organize seminars and meetings, in
particular seasonal program reviews; secure and store all reports on work
in progress and try to retrieve, publish and store records of past work;
publish a newsletter on Somali research topics twice each year and
encourage research workers to publish the results of their work.
Research Planning
4.19      National.  While the master plan prepared by the International
Service for National Agricultural Research (para. 1.19) contains a
comprehensive list of research topics relevant to Somali agriculture, the
Government cannot undertate all the research listed in the plan due to its
own limited resources and uncertainties concerning funding trom donor
countries. It needs to focus on the highest priority items and incorporate
them into a national research program. At project appraisal, priority
items of the plan, tor which there were no assured source of tina-ce, were
identified and included in this project. Developing the national research
program would be a continual exercise. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that betore the start ot each season, the research stations
would convene meetings to plan the research and extension programs for the
following season. All donors funding agricultural research in Somalia
would be invited to these meetings.
4.20      Seasonal.  To ensure that research generates technology
responsive to farmers needs, the input of extension statf into seasonal
plans is essential, Eacn station would prepare a seasonal research plan
following the pre-seasonal meetings (para. 4.19), assisted by the Research
Directorate and in consultation with the AF4ET Technical Manager, Director
of Training, Director of E~xtension, and regional staff. The APMET field
trials program would also be finalized then.  The Directorate would, before
each season, organize a seminar of all research stationis and other research
units, the Agricultural Faculty and AFIu1T, at which results of the past
season and the research plans of the stations for the new season would be
discussed and applications for using the Research Support Fund considered.
following the seasonal seminar, the Directorate would give its
recommendation on program proposals to MOA.
Research/Extension Linkages
4.21      Procedures to ensure that farwers' problems are investigated by
researchers and that research results are provided to and used by extension
workers would be the key to the success of this project. At national



- 28 -
level, there would be close liaison between AFMET and the Research
Directorate to ensure that the above issues are adequately addressed by
both research and extension workers. However, the closest and most
important linkage would be between the CARS and Bonka stations and the
regional extension staff that they serve. The procedure for extension
staff to participate in seasonal research program planning has already been
described (para. 4.20). In addition, before each season, the AFMET
Technical Manager and Director of Training and the regional staff would
meet with the Director and senior research staff of the station, to work
out the seasonal extension timetable, extension recommendations, monthly
AFMET staff training schedules, research staff participation in monthly
AFMET staff training, and the content and timetable for seasonal SMS
training. If needed, AFMET would meet the cost of transport and per diems
to ensure that research workers could fulfill their obligations to train
the extension staff. The monthly training sessions would be workshops at
which, in addition to training activities, extension workers would convey
problems, on which they require advice, to the participating research
workers.  If solutions to the problems are not available, consideration
should be given to include trials to solve the problem in the research
program.  Assurances were obtained that research/extension linkage
procedures described in paras. 4.19 and 4,20 would be followed.
Other Research Topics
4.22      Field Trials.  The AFMET would conduct field trials to test
research recommendatiohs, with assistance from research staff in deciding
the design and type of trials. The capacity of Somali staff for these
tasks would be developed through training programs, supported by short-term
consultancies for trials design and evaluation of data. The AFMET would
also be available to conduct trials on behalf of the research stations to
assist them to expand their programs of ecological testing of results
obtained on the research stations.
4.23      Documentation of results has been weak.  The Directorate would
become responsible for maintaining the records, monitoring the punctual
submission of reports by stations and other units and for disseminating
interesting results widely. The Directorate would also try to consolidate
and store results from earlier work and maintain a modest reference library
and supply of journals.
D. Annual Work Program
4.24      An Annual Work Program and Budget (or Performance Budget) would
be the key tool for financial control and monitoring project
implementation. The plan would distill the various longer term project
objectives into a number of selected activities which can be measured
easily and reported on regularly. It would include (i) a review of project
implementation in the current year; (ii) detailed description of work
expressed in terms of key indicators, to be carried out in the forthcoming
two agricultural seasons (Gu and Der) including objectives, deployment of
stiff and equipment; (iii) assessment of manpower resources, equipment,
fuel and other material resources required; (iv) a budget, and (v) a



- 29 -
financing plan including foreign and local currency requirements and
budgetary support from GOSe
4.25      T'he Plan/Budget would be prepared by the Financial Controller
(para. 4.05) on the basis of proposals relating to AFMET and the Research
Directorate received from the Project Technical Manager and the Research
Advisor and reviewed by the General Manager and by the Director General of
Research respectively each February, and would cover the ensuing two
agricultural seasons, Copies would be submitted to IDA and other
participating donors not later than March 1 each year. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations and that the Annual Work Program and
Budget would be implemented taking into account IDA's comments.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.26      The existing Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of AFMET wou:ld be
strengthened. It would continue to monitor the progress of the prciject and
provide the General Manager of the project regular information for project
reporting requirements. The Unit's evaluation work would be expanded along
the lines recommended by a recent consultant's study. Evaluation tasks
would include completing a baseline survey within six months of project
effectiveness; follow-up surveys to determine project impact, effectiveness
of the training program and other specific impact points of the project to
be determined from time to time; and identifying the need for special
studies and arranging tnem. More detailed terms of reference for the Unit
are given in Annex 6.
V. BENir'ITS AND RISKS
A. benefits
5.01      Evaluation of the first project (Cr. 905-SO) has shown that
extension has played an important role in improving farm productivity, once
farmers' interest was stimulated by a suitable policy environment,
incentives to produce and relevant technology. The impact of extension was
considerable in irrigated areas, but less pronounced in the rainfed area.
There, the technology to counter the harsh environment is not yet as
advanced as in the irrigated areas. That is why the project supports
research in drought-prone areas. Because the extension service in the
first project was new and had to identify economically useful messages for
farmers and win their confidence, only a relatively small proportion of the
total farming community could be counted as "adopters." A very
considerable task remains, therefore, to achieve widespread adoption of the
technology recommendations.
5.02      This second project is well poised to achieve these objectives,
with an effective extension service in place, which would be further
improved, with farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas showing
confidence in the extension service, with proven technology messages
available, and a policy environment that has been conducive to stimulating
farmers' interest in looking for ways of increasing production. In



- 30 -
addition, both this and other projects are strengthening the country's
research capacity that should expand and improve technology available to
farmers. This would complement the stronger extension capability to
transmit results to tarmers,
5.03      Wnile the extension service ultimately served about 125,000 farm
families under the first project, for reasons already described (para.
5.01), there were only about 25,U00 adopters,. While the increased coverage
of 35,000 farmers would only be modest, the thrust of extension work would
be to transform every farmer into an adopter. The extension service would
continue to focus its main advice on major staple and cash crops such as
maize, sesame and pulses in irrigated areas; and sorghum and pulses in
rainfed areas. A reasonable estimate of yield increases that farmers
following extension advice would expect are feasible. Such projections can
be based on actual yield increases obtained in the first project measured
in recent surveys and are illustrated in Table 5.1 below, in which "Without
Project" are the the present ave-rge yields, while "With Project" are a
composite of yields achieved by adopters of extension recommendations
(Table 1.2) and present yield levels.
Table 5.1
Present and Projected Crop Yields
With Project       Cropping Intensity
Farming System/Crops        Without  Full Development  Full Development
Project  Year-10                     X
-      qtls/ha d/
1. Controlled Irrigation
Maize                      15          20.0
Sesame                     5            6.5               133
Pulses                     3            6.2
2. Flood Irrigation
maize                     12.5         17.6
Sesame                     4            5.5               133
Pulses                     2            4.7
3. Rainfed
Sorghum                    5.5          6.8
Pulses                     1.5          2.7               100
a/ 1 qtl = 100 kg.
5.04      The adoption rate by farmers and additional yield increases that
may materialize from technology development cannot be projected
accurately. However, as an illustration of benefits that might be
attained, the achievement of "With Project Yields" (Table 5.1) by all
farmers covered by the extension service would increase annual maize and
3orghum production by about 135,000 tons and that of sesame and pulses by



- 31 -
about 80,000 tons. The additionial maize and sorghum production alone would
represent an increase of about 20 percent over current production levels,
5.05      The impact of research is even more difticult to gauge.  That is
why crop yields that have already been obtained have been used to
illustrate possible benefits trom extension. However, the increased maize
yields, with good contact farmers achieving yields of four tons grain/ha,
are due to a locally bred composite variety and associated agronomy work,
while higher pulses yields stem trom screening imported strains coupled
with relevant agronomy work. These results give cause to reasonable hope
that irrigated technology would improve further during the project period.
Similar results in rainfed areas may take longer, but the project would
ensure that the promising start in rainfed areas research made under the
Bay Region Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 972-SO), would be
sustained.
5.06      The project would have important institution building benefits,
It would consolidate the achievements of the first project, which
established the extension service, by developing it to a stage where
planning, administration and management of the service would he done by
local staff entirely or with minimal toreign technical assistance. The
effectiveness of the services to farmers should also improve. Similarly,
the project would play a role, together with other donors, in developing
the national agricultural research capacity.
Farmer's Income
5.07      At full development, the project is expected to benefit some
15b,000 farm tamilies. Farm surveys indicate that the average farm size is
about 3 ha in irrigated and flood irrigated areas and about 4 ha in rainfed
areas. Based on the surveys, typical farm models have been constructed to
examine financial benetits derived from established yield increases (Table
5.1). A summary of the results of the analysis is shown in Table 5.2 below
and are set out in more detail in Annex 10.



- 32 -
Table 5.2
Estimated Farm Incomes
Witlhut                         At FUll Development
Project    With Project             ncrenatal
Year         0         5        10 a/      Per Fara   Per Capita
-~~~~So,.,-
Qqapta
1. Controlled Irrigation (3 ha farm)
Gross value of production       68,550   97,750    129,400      b0,850      11,064
Net farm cash income            48,567   61,292     75,261      26,694       4,853
Net inccoe (retum to managemnt)  20,940   33,920    48,145      27,205       4,946
Return/per van day,                2W       243       29A
2. Flood Irrigation (3 ha farm)
Gross value of production       55,325   80,400    109,900      54,575       9,923
Net fanm cash Income            3b,992   46,9b6     56,261      19,269       3,503
Net income (return to manageient)   9,365   19,595  29,145      19,780       3,596
Return/per man day                 161      19r       227
3. Rainfed (4 ha farm)
Gross value of production       47,800   64,500     69,600      21,8w0       3,964
Net farm cash income            36,420   37,52U     42,440       6,02U       1,095
Net incom (return to mangement)   7,960    9,060    13,980       6,020       1,095
Retuin/per man day                 157      16U       17/
8/ Bin development.
5.08       The models indicate an annual net gain per holding of about
So.Sh. 55,000 to 61,00U in the irrigated and flood irrigated areas and
about So.Sh. 22,000 in the rainfed areas. These returns would represent
roughly 50% increase of net farm income in the irrigated/flooded areas but
only about 15% increase in the rainfed area. This illustrates the
difficulty faced by research and extension workers in those areas and the
need of ensuring the continuity of research, particularly in the rainfed
areas.
B. Risks
5.09       The main risk would be a drop in staff morale and motivation.  In
Somalia, due to budget constraints, it has been difficult for the
Government to offer attractive employment terms to its staff and that has
led to reduced effectiveness of some civil servants, The project includes
several measures to maintain morale and motivation of project staff by
means of allowances to supplement the base pay, providing adequate housing,
which is particularly important for field staff in locations where there



- 33 -
are housing difficulties, and providing adequate transport and travel
allowances. The other risk is that input supply and agricultural policies
would be unfavorable for improving agricultural production and negate
project extension and research efforts, These tnatters would be under
constant Bank review, and the core of a continuing dialogue with the
Government in the context of Agricultural Sector Adjustment Programs. On
the whole, with effective staff and a proven management team already in
place, the risks that face the project are smaller than in most
agricultural projects in Somalia.
C. Sustainability
5.10      There are two aspects of sustainability:  institutional and
financial. Prospects for institutional sustainability are good and judging
from results of the first project, it should be possible for Somali
professionals to manage the extension system with minimal outside technical
assistance in the future. Because of the emphasis on technical assistance
and training in the first project, there is now a cadre of Somali staff in
management, technical and supervisory positions. Consequently, there is
less need for technical assistance, which has been considerably reduced in
this project, compared to the first project, by eliminating most of the
massive contribution financed by other donors. The emphasis on training
should strengthen the Somali capacity even further to manage the extension
service.
5.11      The best chances for sustainability lie in the success of the
project so that there is strong farmer demand for the institutions and
Government appreciation of their economic benefit. The extension services
have already established a good reputation and the project has been
designed to improve extension performance further by strengthening
research, training, ensuring staff mobility and by its special focus on
women farmers.
5.12      The project is expected to bring about production and farm income
increases and generate foreign exchange (by import savings or exports)
hence, GOS should find a convenient mechanism for raising revenue to cover
costs of extension and research services. The Government has already
agreed to meet operating costs and local salaries (about US$3.6 million -
13% of total project cost). IDA reimbursements against these expenditures
have been phased in suitable tranches to minimize strain on the government
budget. At the end of the project, GOS would have built the capacity to
sustain activities presently supported by external donors.
VI, AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  Criteria for selection of FEAs to be provided with motorcycles
and the terms and conditions for allotment of motorcycles to FEAs
would be finalized to the satisfaction of IDA (para, 2.11);



- 34 -
(b) Jowhar ETC would continue to function from its present premises
until the proposed buildings and facilities are completed (zi!5.
2.15);
tc) Adequate land for the construction of the ETC at Jowhar would be
transferred to AFMET by October 31, 1987 (para. 2.15);
(d) The ownership and administration of the buildings belonging to
the Ministry of Education, adjacent to the APMET regional
headquarters at Yontey, would be transferred to AFMET by December
31, 1987 (para. 2.16);
(e) The Research Advisor, who would be internationally recruited,
would be appointed and would take up his post by December 31,
1987 (para. 2.19);
(f) Criteria governing the use of the Research Support Fund were
agreed at negotiations. Proposals for commissioning research
abroad or entailing a cost greater than US$100,0000 would be sent
to IDA for review (para. 2.20);
(g) GOS would make provisions annually, in the recurrent budget to
cover its contribution towards local salaries and operating costs
(para.3.04);
(h) Procurement procedures would be followed as outlined in paras
3.07 -3.09 (para. 3.06);
1i) Project accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and
generally recognized accounting principles and priorities
satisfactory to IDA and would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.15);
Cj) The Research Directorate would implement the research component
except for part dealing with Bonka Research Station which would
be managed by the Bay Regional Agricultural Development Project
Management Unit. In case this unit ceases to operate, the
Research Directorate would assume responsibility for this part of
project also (para. 4.01);
(k) GOS would set up the Project Tecnnical Coordination Committee,
under the chairmanship of Vice-Minister for Agriculture, by
December 31, 1987, with terms of reference acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.02).
(1) The existing AFMET Project Management Unit would be continued
under the project with the same responsibilities (para. 4.04);
(m) The qualifications and experience of the General Manager, AFMET,
the Project Technical Manager, the Financial Controller, the
Director of Extension and the Director of Training of AFMET,
would be acceptable to IDA. (paras. 4.04, 4.06, 4.10);



- 35 -
(n)  AFMET would identify a suitable Somali professional with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, who would take.
over as Director of Training not later than June 30, 1988,
(par&. 4.10);
(o)  AFMET would assign to the FMETC suitable Somali staff with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, in agronomy,
plant protection, livestock, agricultural implements,
communication and extension training as counterparts to technical
assistance personnel (para. 4.11);
(p)  Research/extension linkages would be followed as described in
paras. 4.19, 4.20 and 4.21;
(q)  AFMET would prepare the Annual Work Program and Budget each
February, the copies of which would be submitted to IDA for
review by March 1, each year (para. 4.25).
6002      The following would be Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  The Director General of Research with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA would be appointed and take up his
post (para. 2.19);
(b)  The Government would open two counterpart funds and pay So.Sh. 30
million into one and So.Sh. 15 million into the other (para.
3.14);
6.03      The approval by IDA of the draft contracts for the sub-projects
to be financed under the Research Support Fund would be a condition of
disbursement of the relevant category (para.2.20).
6.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit for the equivalent of US$12.7 million.



SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Somalia
A. Statement of IDA Credits (As of February 28, 1987)
IDA         Undisburaed
No.      Year    Borrower              Project                         Credit   (Less Cancellations) 1/
-- (US$ Million)----
Eighteen Credits have been fully disbursed                                  116.3
905-SO     1979      Somalia      Agriculture Extension                     10.5            0.3
906-SO     1979      Somalia      Central Rangelands                         8.0            0.5
972-SO     1979      Somalia      Bay Region Agriculture                    12.0            3.6
1105-SO     1981      Somalia      Fourth Education                          10.2            2.7
1236-SO     1982      Somalia      Second Mogadishu Water Supply             15e0            0.8
1324-So     1983      Somalia      Fourth Highway                            23.0            2.0
1464-SO      1984     Somalia      Afgoy Gas Delineation                     18.0            6.2
1465-S0     1984      Somalia      Fisheries Exploration Promotion           13.5            4.2
1538-SO     1985      Somalia      North-West Agriculture - Phase II         10.6            8.0
1b12-SO     1985      Somalia      Agricultural Input Program I              10.2            4.0
1171-SO     1986      Somalia      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Prog.   30.2 2/           19.9
1647-SO     1986      Somalia      Livestock Health Services                  4.3            4.3
1723-SO     1986      Somalia      Ports Modernization                       22.6           22.6
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1986)
Fiscal
Year                     Obligor                         Loan       Equity    Total
1981             Somalia Molasses Co. Ltd.                0.186        -        0.186
1985             Polypropylene Bag Co.                    0.605        -        0.605
1/ Converted at SDR rate as at September 30, 1986
2/ Does not include African Facility Credit of US$32.6 million



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
SMALIA
SWD  AlASIAL RSE=  ANu £XINSI0N PHWeJ
Proiect Staffing andi Cwerae
Farm
Settled              farmilies  CGrrenit Field EKtension Staff
Farm      Cropped  covered
HWICNS             Famlies       Area   pnas I       RS)D   F1A
L/Sbebelli          42,000      14,300  35,000        1        3         5     a0
M/WSebelli          49,000      93,100  21,000        1        2         3     30
Bay                71,000     212,200  30,000       1         2        5     30
L/Juba              14,000      21,55U   7,000        1        -         1     10
11/Juba              14,000      38,630   7,000       -        -         1     10
(Gdo              lOOtW        34,900   t,000       1         1        2      17
Hiran              11,000      22,700   6,0J0       1         1        2      9
mkool              8,000       35,000  10,OU0       1        3         3     20
TOHAL            219,000     60U,380  124,00      7        12       22    176
Farm
Settled              famiLies   Propsed Field Ectensic1 Staff
Farm       Cropped  covered
IW(miS             Famlies      Area    phase II    REO       SMS   D ED  FA
L/Stebelli          42,00u      142,300   40,000      1        4         5    50
WShetelni           49,000      93,100   40,000       1        4         5    50
Bay               71,000      212,20u   40,0W0      1        3         5    50
I.Juba              14,00      21,550    7,000       1        3         1    10
N/Juba               14,000      38,630    7,000      -        -         1    10
(iedo              10,000      34,900    8,000      1         1        2    17
Hiran              11,000      22,70u    6,000      1         1        2     9
Bakool             8,OuU       35,000   10,000      1        3         3    20
TtAL              219,00V     600,380  158,000      7        19       24   216



- 38 -
ANNEx 3
Table 1
SOMAL IA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJtCt
SuTmary Account by Project Coriionent
ISO. SH. '000)
Physical
Co.%t ingeno;.s
PROJECT HEAD  FIELD EXTENSION               AGRICULTU9RAL                .
OFFICE      ORGANI1ATION    TRAINING       RESEARCH       Total        I    Anount
i. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                   147. 823.0        266, 770 3  130, 592. 2    27. 867. 3    573. 052.8  10.3  59, 140.8 
8. VEHICLES                       47. 393. 0        37, 350. 0    9, 130. 0     9,960. 0    103. 833.0   5. 0   5, 233. 2
C. EQUIPMENT                              -         23,924.8   44.537 8        11,620.0     80.082.6   7. 1  5.700.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              195. 216.0        328, 045. 1  184. 260.0     49. 447.3    756.968.3   9.3  70. 074. 8
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                      28.010.8         112,348.8   26,712.7        15,514.4    182,586.7   S.0   9,129.3
S. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         219.535.0                 -  105,825. 0     214, 140.0    539,500.0   5.0  26.975.0
C. OPERAT ING COSTS              80, 083. 4       178, 460. 0  105,531.2     93.667.2    457, 741. 7   9. 0  41. 090.8
-- -   I--   -- - - - - - -  -- - - -  -- - -- - -   -----------   _.   .   .........
Total RECURRENT COSTS               327,629.2         290,808.8  238,068.9       323,321.5  1, 179.828.4   6.5  77,195. 1
Total BASELINE COSTS                 522,845.2         618,853.8  422.328.9       372,7 68. 8  1. 936. 796. 7   7.6 147,270,0
Physical Contingencies             37.579. 1         54,118 2   35.312.6       20,260. 1    147,270.0   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                36.200.1          40.794.6   27,178.1       29.586.1    133,758.9   6.9   9.167.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                  596.624.4         713,766.6  484,819 6       422,614.9  2,217,825.6   7.1 156.437.3
:::::::::::: ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     et :::-:::-    ::-, -::::2::2srr::sX:;:2:SS::::::
foreign Exchange                  477,877.0         445,687. )  348,446. 1    364.837.4  1.636.847.7   7.0 113,912.8
--- --- --  ---_--  -- ---  --- -- -  - --- -- ---   -- -- --- --- -_---    _---_ -   --- --  --- --- -   --- --   --



-39-
ANNEX 3
Table;
SOMAL IA
SECOND AGRICULTURAl EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Consonents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                  Totals Including Contingencies
(SO. SR. Million)                               (US1$ Million)
1987 1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  Total    1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 Total
-::::S   ::::::::::  ::::: ::::: 3:St   :::  :::   :    :::: :::3 :3:3::               :::::33
A. PRODECT HEAD OFFICE              16.2 ;17.6  73.6 229.2  57.2  50.5  52.2   596.6   0.2  1.4  0.9  2.8  0.7  0.6  0.6   7.2
8. FIELD EXTENSION ORGANIZATION    2.7 233.7 211.4  85.5  57.6  60. 1 62.8   713.8   0.0  2.8  2.5  1.0  0.7  0.7  0.8   8.6
C. TRAINING                         30.8  79.6 191.1  67.9  38.7  37.7  39.0   484.8   0.4  1.0  2.3  0.8  0.5  0.5  0.5   5.8
0. AGRICULTURAl RESEARCH               -  29.2 122.0  78.9  84.9  57.9  49. 8   422. 6     - 0.4  1.5  1.0  1.0  0.7  0.6   S. 1
Total PROJECT COSTS                   49. 6 460.1 598. 2 461.4 238.5 206.1 203.8 2. 27. 8   0. 6  5.   7. 2  5. 6  2. 9  2. 5  2.5  26.7
Parch 31, 1987  17:52



-40-
ANNEX 3
Table 3
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRIlULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Sumnary Accounts by Year
(SO. Sm. I 0001
ease Costs                                        Foreign Exchange
1987     1988       1989       1990      1991       1992      1993       Total        X      Amount
!. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                 2,490.0 146,590.5 257.619.6 166, 352.8           -          -         -   573.052.8   76.2   436.732.7
8. VEHICLES                    8,217. 0  57,934.0   4, 565.0  24, 402.0   8. 715 0         -         -   103. 833.0   95. 0    98. 641.4
C. EQUIPMENT                   8. 051. 0  34,445.0  37,586.6         -          -          -         -    80. 082. 6   80.5    64. 462.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           18, 758.0 238. 969.5 299. 771. 1 190. 754.8   8. 715.0       -         -   756. 968.3   19. 2   599,836.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                   2,154.7  26,750.1  29,960.5  30, 717.5  31.001.3  31,001.3  31.001.3   182.586.7    0.0              0.0
8. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    24,070.0  76. 360.0 118.690.0 103, 750.0  89.640.0  63. 495. 0  63.495.0   539,500.0  100.0   539.500.0
C. OPERATING COSTS            1, 030. 9  70, 643.8  79,262.5  79, 936.5  78. 133. 7  78. 309. 7  70. 424. 7   457. 741. 7   64. 3   294. 445.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS            27.255.5 173,753.9 227,913.0 214.403.9 198. 775.0 172. 806.0 164.921.0 1. 179. 828. 4   70. 7   833.945.9
Total BASELINE COSTS              46.013.5 412,723.3 527,684.1 405,158.7 207.490.0 172,806.0 164.921.0 1.936.796.7   74.0 1,433.782.8
Physical Contingencies          2.900.0  31, 798.8  44,450.1  31,837.3  13. 361.4  11,647.9  11,274.4   147.270.0   73.0   107.434.1
Price Contingencies               733.7  15. 625.0  26.033.0  24,452.8  17. 619.8  21, 686. 9  27. 607.8   133,758.9   71.5    95, 630. 3
total PROJECT COSTS               49.647.3 460,147.1 598,167.2 461,448.7 238. 471.2 206.140.8 203.803.2 2,217,825.6   73.8 1,636,847.7
Foreign Exchange               42. 740.4 359. 164. 7 460. 727 0 333. 297. 1 170. 603.9 136, 588.0 133. 726. 5 1, 636. 847. 7    0. 0  0. 0
March 31, 1987  17:52



SONAL I A
SECOID AGRICULTURtAL EXTEiSIOIS PMJECT
Table 100. PROJECT HEAD OFFICE
Detailed Cost Table
(so. SM '000)
Breakidoun of Totals mnci. Cant
(USS '000)
quantity                                                           Bose Costs $n S                                        Local
1987 1968  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  Total  Unit Cost  1987   1298   1989   1920   1991  1992  1993  total    For. Eatch. Taxes)    Taxes   Total
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL HORKS
IMPROVING ROAD AFGOI                        -            - 3 1                           1  - 31  29.485        -                  . 100. 5                     1    . 100.     767'.0   511.3          - l.276.3
TYPE 8 HOUSES
175 SON) /a-                                   -           10      -             -     1    2.925175        -         -     -   352.5       -             -   352.5         327.6    81. 9          -   409.4
TYPE C HOUSES
ISO SQAI-                                                  10      -      -      -     10    1,9250. 5      -         -     - 235.0         -                  235.0        218.4    54. 6          -   273.0
CAR REPAIR SHED
ISOSQA                                  -      I             .                          1       1.245       -    15.0                                           is  - 1. 0   13.?      3. 4         -    17.1I
CENTRAL NORKISHOP                           -    78                                        is  - - 7   63       -    78.0       -                      -      -     78.0         71.I    I7. 8          -    88.8
Suib-Total CIVIL WORKIS                                                                                             -    93.0       - 1. 688.0      -      -      - 1, 781. 0    I. 39?.6   659.0           - 2. 066.6
S. VEHICLES
fOUR WHEEL DRIVE /b                         -     4      -      -      4      -      -      8       1.245             so6. 0    -        -  60.0       -      -   120.0         126.6      6. 7         -   133.2
4 NO PIC1r.J TWIN CAB /c                           I                   -                    I       1. 245            Is1. 0    -         -     -      -      -    15. 0         15.5      0.8 a        -    1s.3
SAI.OO  Ci-.b                                     2       -     --                   -      2         830       -     20. 0      -              -      -      -    20.0          20.7       1.1I        -    21.7T
BUSES                                       -      -      -      I     -      -      -      1       2.905        -           -        35.0      -      -      -    35.0          36.9       1. 9        -    38. 6
MOTORCYCL.ES                                2      -      -     2      -                    4         165    4.0          -      -     4. 0     -      -      -      8. 0         8.3      0. 4         -      8. 7
PETROL IMhI(ER (20.000 L)                   -      I      -     1      -      -             2       3.735       -    45.0        -    45.0      -  -          -    90.0          93.9      4.9-    98.8
TRACTOR 8 TRAILER                           -      I     -                                          1.494       -    18.0                      -                    Is  - 1. 0   I6. 6     1. 0         -    19. 6
LOW LOADED TRAILER                          -      I      -                                           830             to1. 0    -               -             -    10.0          10. 3     0. 5         -    10. 9
PITCE UNIT EQUIPMIENT                       - 160                                         ISO-- -    8  83       - 160.0        -               -      -      -   160.0         165.2      8.7T         -   173.9
FUEL. STGE TANK  (5,000 Li                        3      -                           -      3         830       -    30.0       -        -             -      -    30. 0         31.0      1. 6         -    32.6
STORE EQUIPMENT  IHQ/SHAL)                        10                                       to  - - 1   83       -    10.0                 -     -      -      -    10.0          10.8a     0. 6         -    11. 4
OFFICE EQUIPMENT/FUR01. /d-    25                        -      -                    -    25           83             25.       -         -                   -    215.0         25.8      1.4          -    27.2
FURNITURE HOUSING I.                               -     -    20       -             -     20          83       -               -    20.0       -      -      -    20. 0         21. 1     1. I         -    22.2
FURNITURE REHAB/RENENAI.                           -    10      -      -      -      -     10          83       -            10. 0        -     -      -      -    10.0          10.4      0.5S         -    11. 0
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                               4.0   393.0  10. 0    104. 0  60. 0       -      -   571.0        594.9    31.3           -   626.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                               4.0   486.0  10. 0 1,7192. 0  60. 0      -      -2.352.0        t.1,992.8  7100.3         -2,692.8
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
I. HQ OFFICE
GENERAL MfANAGER                     0.5      1      I             I      I 1S . 5            285.52      1. 7     3. 4   3.4      3. 4   J. 4   3. 4   3.4    22.4             -    25.3-    25.3                  '   -   m
ASSI GM SERVICES          ~~~~~0.5   1      1      I            I      165           142.76    0. 9      17      .7       1.7 I  .T   1. 7    1. 7    11.2            -    12.65                12.6          0
DEP TECH  ANUAGER                    0. 5     1      I      1      1      1     1   6. 5       89. 64    0.5S      1.1I   1.1I     1.1I   1. I   1.1I   1.1I    7.0            -      7. 9                T . 9    OQ
OEP FIN CONTROLLER                   0.5      1      I      I      I      I     I   6.5       107.07    0. 6       1. 3   1. 3     1.3   1.3   1. 3    1. 3     8.4             -     9.5          -      9.
PERSONNOEL OFFICER                   0.5      I      I      I      I      1     1   6. 5       89. 64    0. 5      1.1I   1.1I     1.1I   1.1I   1. I   1.1t    7.0                   ? .9         -       .9 2     -
CHIEF.  MAE                          0.5      1      I      I      I      I      I   6. 5      89. 64    0. 5      1.1   1.1I      1.1   1.1I   1. 1    1.1t    7.0             -     7. 9         -      7. 9 
CHIEF. CLEAR/HEADLING                0.5      I  1      1  I              I     I   6. 5       89.54    0.5        1.1   I.1I      1.I   1. 1    1. I   1. 1    7.0             -     T. 9.               7. 9
SENIOR ACCOUNTANT                    1. 5     3      3      3      3     3      3  19. 5       7I. 38     1. 3     2. 6   2. 6     2. 6   2. 6   2. 6   2. 6   16.8a           -    19. 0                Ill9.0
SECRETARY                            1. 5     3      3      3     3      3      3  19.5S       47'.31    0. 9      I. 1. 7    1.I  I 7   1. 7    1,7   1.7     I1.1I           -    12.6-    12.0
ASST MASE                            1. 5     3      3      3     3      3      3  19.5        35.69    0. 6       1.3   1. 3      1.3   1. 3    1.3   I. 3     8. 4           -      9.5S         -      9. 5
CHIEF. TRANSPORT                     0. 5     I      I      I      1      I     1   6. 5       71.38    0. 4       0.92   0. 9    0. 9   0. 9   0.9   0. 9      5. 6           -      6. 3         -      6. 3
MAINT. ENGINEER                      0. 5     1      I      I      1      I      I   6. 5      71.38    9. 4       0. 9   0. 9     0. 9   0. 9   0. 9   0. 9    5.86           -      6. 3         -      B. 3
DRIVERS                                6     12    12    12    12    12    12    78            35.68     2. 6     5. 2   5. 2     5.2   5.2   5.2   5. 2    33. 5              -    37.9           -    37. 9
WATCHMEN                               3      a      6      6      6     6      6    39        24.07    0. 9       1.7I   1.7I     1.7I   1. 7   1. 7   1. 7   11.3            -    12.8a          -    12. 8
CLEANERS                               3      6      6      6      6     6      6    39        24.97    0.89       1.7  17  1.7I 1.?7 I.?7 1. 7    1 1 I. 3                    -    12.8           -    12.8a
MAINTENANCE STAFF                      2      4      4      4      4     4      4    26        35.69    0. 9       1.7T  1. 7      I.?7   1.7I  1.7I  1. 7     11. 2           -    t2. 6          -    12. 6
MESSENGERS                             I      2      2      2      2     2      2     13       24. 07    0. 3      0.56  0. 6     0.6   0. 6   0. 6   0.6       3.8a           -      4. 3         -      4. 3
HEAD. FUEL SECTION                   0. 5     1      1      1      1      I      I   6. 5      59.76    0.4       0.7   0.7       0. 7   0. 7   0. 7   0. 7     4. 7           -      S. 3         -      5.3
R.T. OPERATOR                        0. 5     I      I      I      1      I     I   6. 5       35.69    0.2       0.4   0.4       0. 4   0.4   0. 4   0.4       2.8            -      3.2          -     3. 2
 - -     - - -    - -    - - -    - -    - -   - -- - - - -   - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -      - - -



Orvlthoin, of lotls is oo. cam
2226  000
Sw,ltol of 6009*26                                                                            SS.4   30.2I  M.2I   30.1  * 0.3  30.2  20. 2   SOL08.             ).              66.
3. NO 160560
COSEF                  ~~~~0. 6 I     I                 I     I  6.11      71.2    0 4      092  0.0      .   e.g   *., o. .o    S,;-                  6          -    6. 2
KNOI?0221*I                     0.6,          I     I    S      1     I46.            is7604        0.?   0   o7 0 0. 70.?   0.?    4.7                        S 3              iS3
£cc6wolK?                       0.65          I    I      I     I    I  S.         620      0.3     0?7  0?7    0. ?   0. 7   0.7  0.?      4.2                4.0a             4.6
CLtU/27PIs7                     O S     I     I    2      1     I     I  6.S       Ss. fa 0.3       0 4   0 4     0 4   0. 4   0.4   0 4    2. a                 2        -     1.2
Sim 161191                      0.S     1     I    I      I    I2       16.6,      St.7    0.4      0.?7  0?1    0.?  0.7   0. ?   0.?    4.?                  S. 3             S .23
NasaUaCS 2612200                2.6S    3    2      3    3      3     3  10.6               S'S61.  2.2   2 3     2.2   2.2  2.2  2.2    14.0            -     2.6        *    26.8I
NWb863cS 2a2246                 2.6S    6     6    6      6     5    S632S         26. se    2.4    2.2  32 a     2.2  2.2   2.2   2.2      4. 0               Is6        -    1s.8a
246Lp2.2s                       2.61    S    6      S     S     S     S 32.6       24.07    0.?7    1.S  tL.    1. 9   2.6   2.6   2 .9    0.4            - 2071                to20?
162262024                         3    6      6     6     6    6      6    39      24.0?    0 9     I272?     2.?   2.7  2.?   1.?   22.3                 -     2. a            12.6
S%6-vk1o  No 24020850                                                                          6. 4    0. 9  200    20t. 9  t0.0  20.9  20. 9    ?0.?       - To09                To.9.
2  124*LMOCODD 2400224
;; 621--------                  0.9 S      I     I        I     2     I  659       I1.26    0.4     0 9   002    0.9  0.91  0.09  0.9       6.6                63               0.2
029221162227                    06S     I     I     I    I    I       I  6.6       59.78I    0 4    0.2   0.7     01p  0.?S  0.?I  0.?      4.?                S.2 S            S.2
8Ct08426t                       0.6     I           I     I 2   2  2  26.          63.66T   0.3     070 ?         OL.?   0 ?   070?         4.  t2             4.6              460
CIEmk/IIP2SI                    06S      2    2     2     2            265S        36.80    0 2     0 40 4        0 40.4  04  04            28a                3 2        -     12
$10089229P2g                    06S     2    2      I     2     I    I  86 S       60.76    0.4    0.3  0. 7      0. ?   0.?  0.?  0.?7    4.7                 S 6 IS.2J
NE4IM2d824S 26824100            1.6S    3     3     3     3    2      3  29.65     69.78    1.1    2.2  2.2       2. 2   2.2  2.2   2.2    14.0           -    4.0 2            s 26.
246c22*6c52J2i020               2.5     S     S     S     S     S    6 32.6S       36.60  ~     2.1 2.      2 223.  232   2.2  2.2    24.0               -     6 a             is. 8
NIlPIRS                         2.6     S    6      S     S    5    S6326          24.0  0 ?         16 S1.65     I  26 4     2.6   2.6    9.4                 10.?            t0.7?
246824412                         3     6    6    6       6     6     6   39       24.0?    0.09    1.7   2.    7.72tI     . 7  I1.?        2.  it2.6                      -    1226
SwII-102.  S"2t82000 2400240                                                                   6. 4    W209 0. 10. 0 o    t0.9I  10.0  22.0   70.7          -    n9.0             is799
&&-total SALARIES                                                       ~~~~~~~~~26.0    St929.62.    612.  St9  S12.  61.0  327.6         3626             se28 S
212624168  243280(                 0. 7    2     2     I     I     I    2  67I        B.300   70.0  400.0 200.0  200.0 200.0 200.0 200.0   P0.0         766.2                         I 6.
FI#UtCi8  CONSTROUE                07      I     I     I     2     I    I  6.7        S.200   70.0  200.0 2001.10  to000 200.0 200.0 200.0  670 0       766.1 I              *739
Co4s 11261 422AM/201/                      3     2     2     -  I.       *            2.246           46 0330.0    0.0                       Iw060o        6        -        -   226t.2I
248a U 32.218622 212010                    3     3     3    3                 22         2 S"39. 0*0. 0    30.0  310. 0            -     - 20. 0         23.8        -        -    326
2s00  law202 con  020 KI                   4     4    4                       #I 2      62M           40 0  40.0   40.0      -           - 23. 0         224?       -             21:7.
900C22314!24tons M2/2020                  is   I6s                            IS        639      -   2600260.0                           -360.0          79. 2                    M  9.2
24009222   0110999 t49                     2                       2I          6      8.300          2000 to000   200.02$00.0 200 0 200.10  600. 0       8021.6                   62.
S4h-lo282 210042CA1 8ss2222cl                                                                   200.0*-- 696.0 680.0  400.030...0 3000 300C.0 2.6--.0             ------? - ----- -.6.
C. OPERATING0 co621
2012:  4226So 0101111 2t                         2     2     2     2     2    23      200.4            to1.69.8       009.860. 0.8    6 7.6a              I  I0   3. 4        -     6
#22E2.  4WD00OI60/ A                       I     1        7        I     1    42      100.2      -    2.6   S  16.6 6.   80.8 t 26.  26.8  200.6         423.02    6.0 a          it0.0
2612.:  S8toollCMSS/4                      2     2     2     2     2    2    22       249.4            S 26   3.65    2.6   3 6   2.6   2.8   22.6        24 4     t23        - 28.?
22221:  220RC1CLES /J-    2                      2     2     2     2    2    22       39.3a            0.7   0. ?   0.?7  0. 7   0.7   0 .?    4.3        4 9     0.3 J            6.2
223(:047313/A                              I     2        I        I     I    6         240            3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0  3.0   3.0    28.0            "30.     4.2            22.4
223U:  18OCt09                             2    I      I     I     I     4    6         249            2.0  3.0    3. 0   J. 0   2.0   3. 0    26. 0     30.2      2.2            22.4
tuft.:  GENERTORS1061                      I     I    2      I    2      4    6      476.00            6.6S  6.8    6.a .6 6.    .6   6.6    24.6         39.1     2.1             42.2I
622210224 ff62026416  /.             -    2     24   24   24   24   24   64              82      -     4.0  24. 0    24 0  24.0  14.0  24.0   64,.0       6010   00.0             too0. 0
ME plan 46PER 202208C?CI                      2     2     2     2        2 222         249             06a  0.6    0.8  0.6  0.6   0.6         2.6         2L6    2.7               4 3
VC1E4N24C69PER4 NO1 ME                    24   24   24   24   24   44   64              266           26.0  36.0   28.0  36.0  39.  26.0   288.0         219    60se0             20. 9
ME RISS 124CIO620                          I     I    2      I     I     I    6        274.6 S   .     26    S6    1.6  2.61I1    2.6.6         0.0        8.S4    14.3            10 S
Sl822OMMIM/sUPP221S                  .   3    36   36   36    ?S   36   260              62      -     6.  26. 0    36.0  26. 0  26.0  26.0   10. 0      207.2   24.4             28.5
0*87 29601 fifty)                  2. 4    2     2     2     2    2      2  224A        4   90. 4    22.0  22.0   22.0  42.0  22.0  22.0   80.4 Of                0.2              96a     'j.
124506246/8001                            2  30       30    30   30    SO  ISO           83           30 030.0    30.0  20.0 30.0 *0.0   260.0           224.2       -             44        II
PER4 OM2  261P4?SA22  1220           2     2     2     2     2     2    2    24    229.62    2.9       20   2.9      2.0  2.9  3.9  2.0    20.2              - 23.8                28 
M 6002    (toe 20S28PPF200011        -     2     2     2    I      I    I    6        94.62            1.1I  2.2I    2.2I  4.   1.1   1.1      6.6 a               8. I              .   ~~
KR OtM   MRIVERS MOI2             2     2     2    2      2    2    24       47.22    2.2t    1.2t  2.I    2.4  2.4  1.1  2.4        8. 0                9.4              9.4    N4
Sub-lot*$ 096082200 COSTS                                                                        22.4   168.? 266.?   216.?I 25R.7 268.? 256.7  064.6       798,3   346.09       - 4.247 S
20*2960060  cosRe ts                                                                                278.S  4  86.?I 70.7I  62.7 640. 7 620.?I Si0.1I&W 3.4)   3. ?U.0   73.4         - 4.46. 4
20262                                                                                                262.4 1. 01. I OI72. 02.? 660JSWI .? S4.64.620.           6,76S7.6 2 ,430.?7       T. M 2
ib  6.2.2246240 wlwtclos:  2.a..d  252: @2.wo2ot U: 1.2... a.. 224. ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       .... ........ ....... .......
re  0222..egts  ouwnet m       tn nem4    M: .4a,ge lw 2 0.00: S2 iem, 22. W62.2  22m.U -
/A  for voltomncl elitesPat    6260
/1It.ot It*=Ofmff .'ot.d to 0684  tM.I..18   004s   .m    gi.2
2068261842w 80 #bwd.v SWIS      2mSdinre011DI.~
/a  4 a    .smtw fmgwas.ft:  466  SAM a ItI. M 0aO . 40/4.
/b t22 4 sk 1*60af se 2a 1gm 618.0/.
/Salo2on CD": 311Am a~ 213 06o a068 W.00
/j inotwysls:  7S the a tI  m a  6L40/i.
A  9      82M  M~2mp       USgtSt40/4.
,'I b..,-to9: 139 tAw at 22o  062405640/.
As Owl filng mil2.2..mo o, at1 of velm.
.,-7 t,..                 -  -------- --- ---- ---------    --------------                                                         ----- -      - ----



SECONO AGRtCUtlURAL EXTENSION PROIIECT
Table 200. FIELO EXTENSION ORS*NIZATION
Detailed Cost Table
(SO. sm. I 0001
Sp.akidon as 'ofalt mncI. Cant
toss 0001
Quantity                                                            Saste, Costts in S                                   total
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -         -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --                     (lE d.   Duties   a
138?  1388   1989   1990  199   1932  1983  Totsl    Uinit Coat  1387  1988    1989   1990  191  1992  1993  Total    For-. Each. lazes)   Ta..,   To-
...u  .... ......t                           ..n::......ttt   4 n .... =ln..un .  ... .n,,,.t   #2tuS,tWt2. f.. ....ant  u...t ....Ucus
I. wNVEsrsEuT COSTS
A. CIVIL MOR%S
.AOHAR NQ (SQ/N)                                          so 5   so      -             -     10        37. 35      -        -    22.5  22.5                     -    45.0         43.5    10.9           -    54.4
YONTEYNO REHAB                   ~0                         -      -  -                -       I           83      -    10 0         -     -      --            -    t0. 0         9. 5     2. 4         -    I1. 9
TYPE A HOUSES- 12.
(100 5411  /a                           -      -        3            -      -               3       3.901      -        -   141.0       -                   -   141.0        129.7    32.4               162
TYPE S HOUSES
175 S"1) /b                             -      5        6      3     -             -       14   2.925.75       -   176.3   211. 5 105.8                     -   493.5        453.4   113.4           -   586.8
TYPE C NOUSES
(50o4S"1 /C                                   I4I       B                                 20    I. 950. 5          329 0    t41. 0      -     .      -      -   470. 0       429.4   t07.4           -   536.8
fEA hDUSES
(30 SQ/0I /d                            -    94       102      -     -      -      -      196       798.8      -   902.4   979 2       -                    - 1. 881. 6    1. 722. 9   430.7         - 2. 1S3.7I
COMPLETE HOUSES IJANNAIE)                        77         .                                  7?          83      .    77 0         -     -      -             -    77. 0        73. 3    1s. 3         -    91 7
WATER~ SUPPLY /*                                   2        -.                                 2       3.984       .    98.0         .                          -    98. 0        87. 4    21. 9         -   (09. 3
Sub-total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                 -. 1590. 7 (.495.2 128 3       -             -3. 214. 1     2.949.3   737.3           -3. 688. 6
B. VEHICLES
I. HEAD,?UARTERS
FOUR WHEEL DRIVE                        2                      .                            2       1.245  30.0                  -             .30.0                           30.4      1. 6        -    32.0
IIOTORCYCt.ES                            -     S                                            5         168            10. 0                                        to  - 1. 0   10. 3     0.5S        -    10. 3
Sub-total I  EAOOIARTERS                                                                                       30.--.0-                                   -         ---  -   -40.0-40.7  -----  ------    42.8--
2. REGIONS                                                                                                     3.        0                                            004.                    .14. 
FOUR WHEEL DRIVE (RED) /f                      4               3      -7                            1.245      -    80. 0        -45.0         -     -      -   105.0         109.4      S. 8               S11. 1
4 ND PICKUP
THiN CAB (SNSI                       -      4        .      3     .      -      -        7       t.245      .    60.0         -45.0        -      -      -   105. 0       109.4      5.                    I 1.
MIOTORCYCLES
(OEDe5/FEA#S? /g                          so0             50                          too0         166          too0. 0         too.0.0    -      -     -   200.0         208.6    11.0          - 219.86
Sk-TotaI REGIONS                                                                     -  ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~220.0  -190.0  - - - 410. 0  427.3    22.5  -   449.8
Sub-toal, VEHICLES                                                                                                 30.0   230.0         -190.0       -                 4530. 0      468. 0    24.8              492.0
C. EQUIPMENT
I. HIEACQUARTERS
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                              to1                                          so  - - 1   83      -    t0. 0                                         to  -1. 0     6.8      4.8         -    1. 4
Sub-Total HEADQUARTERS                                                                                             -    10.0        -                          -     10.0          6.8a     1.6          -    1.4_
2. REGIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                    it    Q0is
OFFICEEQUIP1IENT             -   ~20         -                                 20           83      -    20.0         -     -                         20.0         13. 7     9.1          -    22.8
FUEL STORAGE TANx                              7        -      -      -     -               7         830      -      00         -            .      -      -    70.0          45.7    30.4          -    T6.1 I       j  t
FURNITURE (HOUSES)                             -      233      -      -      -            233       20.75      -        -    59. 3      -      -                 S& 583        40.2    26.8a         -    87. 0
GENERATORS (IS EVAI                      -     -        7                          .        7       1. 245     -        -    M0. 0      -      -     -           105. 0       109.5      S.8 a             is. 3
S. W. RADIOS                            - 250           -      -         -                250         8.3      -     25. 0       -      -      -     -      -    25.0          25.8      1.4         -     27.2
Sub-Total REGIONS                                                                                                  -   1(5.0   163. 3      -      -            - 278.3           234.8    73.5           -   308.3
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                                                   -   125. 0   183.3       -     -      -          288.3        241.7    78.&0          -   319.?7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                30.0 1. 945.? I . 858.5 318.3      -      -       3.952.4       3. 65. 9   840.0            4.498.9
*W= us.,: s   x #90unS, zt525 tzsaztas552  ..t.    a.::.sut.trt    ttt.Ztt
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES



AM 3
-44-                        Yof re 
d --- ---- ........ ........... 0. ..  ,..,.,........._ x .... Oo^r-°*--
,~~~~~~~~......                                                          .   ... ' 0;0i'llS;U0"' a§j
4: . ... ..... ........ ~        ~                     _. 
-    --   -----^o o-r---------r                                 *ee-o* *e"ooo"e * _"_
..       ..  ..  .    ..  .   ,    s:d;d    W ...    fit-Xi,7^ggd   _    ;'i r.. . .
o    o-o  oor-  """**ve   w    oe-oxo-o^_-e   "  *erevo*-^   ezZ"*onevo  e^  o   ¢ _t
o, --   oo-   --ev    w d:g-oe-d-    ° o-->~|f 2desigtQ               >   R                     v 
;     F *  -0   _ " -w O        w Ob*- - -"  -    . <W 41 Z 0v 0      .11  V A- I.nv        ,,_ 
IE  -o   ev_   ; -vve , dFt#^FOd^^s d  ~~^§~   f St-Ve°"   S            ,uns$



SfI'AL IA
SECOND SGRICULIUIAL1 EiTEtNSION PROJECT
Table .300. TRAININtG
Detaitd Cost Tabte
350. st I 000)
Breakdown of Totals tmcl Cent
Q.an.ity                                                               Base Costs in S                                   Local
------- ---- ---- ----------------  - - ------ - ---------------  Excl   uties  8
1987   1988    1989    t990    1991    1992    1993    Total    Unit Cott  t987  1988   1989    990  1S91 S1992  1993  Total   Fot. Exch  Taxsl   Tax"s   Total
1. IIWVESTHENfI CSTS
A  CIVIt lORS
I fHETC:
RECREATION t4EAE tSOtt                        tCO         -        -       -        -        -       OO       37.35       -  45 0                           -45 0                   4(.0    0o. 2              Si.2
S%6-Total ftETC                                                                                                              - 45.0                                        45.0        43.0      0. 2        -    5. 2
2. ETC*S
TYPE B H.OUSES 175 SON)                 -        -       4        -        -        -       -         4   2. 925. 75            -   14t. 0     -     -      -      -   t4t.0       329.7    32.4         -   162.2
TYPE C idOUSES 350 SQIn                 -        -       Is       -        -        -       -        t6    t.9S0.5       -      -   376.0      -  -      -         -   n60         34.9    8S.           -   432.4
OfFICES IO00 SOI"l
IJgIRAR-                                                                                          I       3.7T3       -          4.0       -      -     -           45.0        41.4    10.4          -    St.8
RENOVATION OfFICES tS1
(OTHERS) J                                  28        -        -       -        -        -       28          83       -  28.0        -     -      -     -      -    28.0        26. 7     8.7              33.3
CtASSROOI  3100 SON)
(.301.80K)                          -        -        -       2        -            -             2       3.154       -     -        -  7?.0                        i -    ?.0  70. a    17.7         -    88.3
RENOVATION CtoSSitS
(OTHERSI/b                           -       9        -        -       -        -        -        9          83       - 9.0          -     -      -     -      -     9.0         8 6      2.3         -    tO.7
l.8RRT/11EAOING 340 SON
WJAR. 3W. 8013                      -        - -      3                                           3    t. 261.        -     -    45.6             -     -      -    43.6        42.0    tO.3          -    s2.4
LIBRAYt REiNIVAT3ON IYOIITETI           -        3        -       -                                   1       41.5            0.         -     -      -     -     -      0.5         0.5     0.          -      0.6
OOTIoRtES 3200 SOMl)
(JiO   VON)                         -        - NI                               -        -        2       7.470       -     -    So090.0                           I -  -   38O. 0  t36.4    41.6         200.0         .
RENOV4AItOi   ORNIITORIES
(.JAN. SON)                                                  22        -        -       -        22          87                      - 22. 0      -     -      -    22.0        2t. 4     S. 3        -    26. 
TOILEIS/BAT" 340 Sf1                   -        -       4        -                                   4      2.407       -      -   its.       -                        t16.0     t367    26.7           -   133.4
DINING W tAL   160 SON)
'3' 0 T                                               ? 2      -                                  2     . 892. 4      -        -    4.6    -            -           43.6        42.0    to. 5-    52.4
RtEISA. O.3aMITC33
(JAN 80l3                          20                 -                                          20          83   20.0      -        -     -      -     -           28.0        IS.*      4.7 t            23.3
KITCHEN/STORE tSO SoNt
340 7-                                       -- -     2                                           2       1.577       -           38.0     -      -     -      -    38.0        3S.0      8.?         -    43. 7
NRSNP ItOO SO)
t(NoN)                              - TN-             2        -       -        -        -        2       2.903       -           70.0                             t70.0        84.4 *    8.1         -     0. 5
REHflB. WORKSHOP
(JAN s303                           30                -        -       -        *        -       10          83   30.0              -        010. 0                              9.       2.3         -    11.7
OPEN SFTE) t50 SOW                      -        -       4        -        -        -       -         4    3.O775        -      -    30.0      -      -     -      -     0. 0       4B 0    t3t.3        -    37.3
INPUTS STMORG   (40 S")1
114ttT   StOR    14                                   2                -        .                 2    1.261 6                   30.4      -      -                 30.4        20.0      7.0              35.0 0g,.g
REHAB. StORA¢E._
3810",  YON )                                        14           1-        -            -        4          83       -        -   4.0     -      -     -          -    14      13. S     3.1         -    16.S T   OV-
DRYING FLOOR  80 SW                     -                4        -        -        -                 4          83      -            4.0      -      -     -      -     4. 0        3.7     0. 9        -      4       il '
tELLAIATER StPPLY /c                    -        -    95.3        -        -        -       -      95.3          83       -     -    93.3      -      -     -      -    95.3        68.7    43.8         -   3146 _
IRRIGATION REHtAs INA)                                                                                                                                                                                                 I^ w
3.3*1. .TOt. 7013                    -       -       1        -   -         -            -       36          83                   36.0     -      -     -      -    36.0        1.3      7. 7         -    19.2
ROADS RENO8
SOND0 JON                                            96                 -                -        96         83                   98.60           -      -     -     9.0        69. 3    46.2         -   3S134
Stb-Total ETC*S                                                                                                          30.0  37.S l.272.9 188.0        -     -      - 1.328.4    1.369.9   404.8           - l.T 74.8 
S.6-TotaI CIVIL ttMtE tS                                                                                                     30. 0  82. S t272. 9 188.0     -      -     - t.s73.4    1. 410. 9   41S.          - 1. 2s. 9
S. VEHICLES
4 IO PtICKUP THIN CAB                   1                 -       -        -        -       -         2       3.245   33. O 3.0          -     -     -      -      -     30.0      307       t. 6        -    32.3
NttttUS                                  I       -                                                    I -. S.O   20.0               -       -     -      -         -    20.0        20.2      1.3        -    213
ETCOS
4 NoPICKUP tw3HCAB                      2        2                -.                                  4       1.24S   30.0  20. 0        -                               0.0       81.4      3.2              66.6



0roakdomr of Totolo JItel. Cosat
Quiantisty                                                              8ase Costs in S                                    Locel
f9a7   198      3989    1990    1991    1992    1992    total    Ujnit Cost  3987  1988   I98    logo  3993  J99    993  Total   Few. tgech. Tam..)    Tax.t   total
Svb-?ot*I VINICEES                                                                                                             65 0  45. 0       -             -            - 110.0    112. 3       5.9          -   410.2I
C. COlIPSUT
IFAIETC:
TEACHINIGAIDS                            -                         -                                              83       -   5. 0        -                               S- .0     S.2      0.3         -     5.4
NEKIA UNIT EOIIIPIItNT /d               is       3                                                    45          83   IS. 0  30.0         -     -                   -    45.0      41-2      2.4         -    48.0
LIBRARY? FIJMITIIN                      30        -       -        -                                   0          63   10. 0      -        -                                0.0      0.a      4.3         -    30.1
BSOOSIUSIC8TIMII                         -                                  S -                                     3      -   S. 0                            -             .0      5. 2     0.3         -     9.4
OfFICC/CLASSROMI FUN.                    -       10       -        -        -        .10                           63      -  to00               --               -        10.0      6.S      4. 3        -    110.9
Sub-Total FNETC:                                                                                                           25. 0  St.0                                  -    150       69.4    It. 6          -    831.0
2. EICOS
Nf8lIE  t6UUc8Ft0m UOIT                  -        4        -                -                           4      2.07?5       - 100.0-        -     --                 -t.0    tot.3            5. 4        -   I06.1
dUIyak Ud                            -        3        -        -                     3                     2.0175        1.0                                          25.0      11.       4.1S             at. S
POWR11LLE3U8l00S)                                 I                -                 -        -         3         3            to8.0-       -     --                  -     0.0     t0.3      0.5               to1.9
IUSNOP EOuipNCt                          -        -        4        .       -                           4        830        -          40.0                                40.0     43.1      3.2         -     46.0
FIMtINEtms                                                4        -                                   4       1.245       -           s0.0                                60.0     95.26    3.51         -    5.
#311689101 PonP #16911)                  -                 I       -        -                           I        501                    1.0                                1.0       1.3      0.4         -       .?
O8F18ONI1Ut (4 OLJUI-                                     4        -        -       -        -         4          83       -4.0                                            40          -     o.4 -1       4.4
FUUITUUC:  6OUITOR1ES                    2        -       2        -                          -        4         408   12.0            12.0                               S4.0       63    10.9           -    1.2
COMU#UIC8TIOU iOIII.                     2        -       2        -        .4                                   03    20.0            20.0                               40.0      43.1      2.3         -    45.3
OFFICE fUU4OUIp.                         2                2                 -        .4                          830   20.0            20.0                               40.0      21.2a    18.I         -    4S.3
GOOKSIPTJ8LIC. (PER ECIC                                  4-                                           4         249                    M2.0                               # 2.0a    13.1I    8.7         -    33.0
CL8SSUOMm  FURN/E013P                    .                4                 -        .                 4         415       -           20.0                               20.       13.6     9.2          -    23.0
TEACHING AIDS                            4        .                                                    4         4l15   20 0               .                              20.0      33.4      0.9         -    22 3
LIBRARY FURIIW/EIIP.                     .        .       4        .                                   4       199.?2      -            9. 6                               9.6       S. 6     4.4         -    I1.0
S,ab-lotal ETCOS                                                                                                           72.0 385 0   204. 6      -      -- 46136    441 1    7S.1I                         -   58.2
Sub-ltota  1OQJIPIINT                                                                                                          97'.0 235 0   204.6                               M  3. 6    510 5    86.7?       -   59t.2I
?ats3  INVESTMNET COSTS                                                                                                          192.0 362.5 1.477.5 388. 0       -              2.220 0 2.033 6   SOT 6              2.541.?
1?  RECURREINT COSTS
a SALARIES
CHIIEF OftRAI3I3NG                               I       I        I            I        1             6       89 64            I3 I             I1  1.1   1.1  I3)        65S                74          .      7 4
CH4IEF AGRGNOMt#St                               I       I        I        I        I        I        6       71 38           09       0 9   0. 9   0. 9   0. 9   0. 9    5 2         -      5 9         -      59
CiSIEF L#VESV0C% SPEC                                I        I            I        1        3        6       TI 38           0 9      0 9   0 9   0. 9   0. 9   0. 9     5 2                S . 9              5 9
CHIEF 409RTICU.LTURZAtIST                                I        I        I        1        I        6       71 3p           0 9      0. 9   0. 9   0. 9   0. 9   0. 9   S. 2               59                 S 59
CHIEF 80. IMPLEMENTS                                 I            I        I        I        3        6       71.38           0. 9     0 9   0.9   0.92  0. 9   0. 9      5.2                S 9                S . 9
CHSIEF COI)NlIICAt#OKS                  -        I       I        I                 I                 6       71 30           0 9      0 9   0.9   0. S   0. 9   0 9      52          -      59                5 9
cS4IEf AUOEO VISUALS                    .       I        I        I        3        I        3        6       71 36           0 9      0. 9   0. 9   0 1   0 9   0 9      52                 59                 S. 9
CHIEF EXTENSIONI T1AtINGI                       1        3        I        I        I        I        6       73 38           0 9      0 9   0. 9   0. 9   0 9   0 9      52                 5 9                S 9
CHIEF PtANT PRlOIECTIONl                        I        I        I        I        I        I        6       71 38           0 9      09   0. 9   0 9   0. 9   0. 9      S 2                5 9                S. 9
CHIIEF WOMEN DEVtOPHE3T                          I       3        I        3        I        3        6       71 38           0 9      09   0.9   0. 9   0. 9   0. 9      52                 S59               5.9   v~.j~
LIBRARIAN                                        I       I        I        3        I        I        6       59 78           0 7      07  0. 7   0 7   0.7   0.7         4 3          .     4. 9               4   9   I
PHOCTOGRAPH4ER                                   I        1                I        1        I        6       5976s           0 7      07  0.7T0  70.7    0.7T            4 3          .     49                 4.9 a*  Ir
DARK ROONI ASST                                  I                I        I        3        3        8       47 31           0 6      06   0 6   0. 60. 6  06            3. 4         -     39          -      39 'I  l
CARETAKER                                        1       I        I        I        I        3        6       53 95           ',7T     070.7  0 70.7  07                  3 9          .     4 4         -      44    It)
asst PRINTING PRESS                             2        2        2        2        2       2         12      35 69            0 9     09    0. 9   0 9   0. 9   0 9      5.2          -     5 9         -      59       010La
DRIVERS                                         4        4        4        4        4       4        74       35 69           I17      II   3.7   17    1 I.   1.7 I     10o3          .    337          -    17
CLEANIERS                               -       4        4        4        4        4       4        24       24 07            3. 2    12 . 2  1. 2 t. 2  1.2             7 0                7. 9        .      7 9
ISATCHKISK1                                     4        4        4        4        4       4        24       24 07            1. 2     32   3.2   1. 2   3.2   I. 2       70                7           -      7 9
CLERKSITypists                                  S        S        5        S       S        S        30       35 69           2 2      22   2. 2   2.2   2. 2   2. 2    12.9                f 4l.7       -      4 7
ACCOUNTAN4T                             -        I       I        I        I        I        1        6       73. 38          092      09   0. 9   0. 9   0.9   0. 9      S. 2               S .9               S . 9
SECRETARY                                        I       I        I        I        1        I        6       47.31       -0. 6        0. 60.860 60.650. 6                3 4          -     3. 9        -      3 9
Sub1-lotal FIIETC:                                                                                                               20 0    20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0   1to. 8                136 0          -   136.0
2. EC*OS (.10313R. .JAIIIALE.
TONIC?. 881008)
TRAINING OFFtCFR                        -       4 4               4        4        4       4        24       59.76           2. 9     2. 9   2.9   2. 9   2.92  2.9    1?. 3          -    1969         -    is96
accOIUItANT                             -       4 4               4        4        4       4        24       it33o            3. 4    3. 4   3.4   3. 4   3.4   3.4    20.6           -    23 4         -    23 4
IAR)RNUAGCR                             -       4        4        4        4        4       4        24       5395S            2.65    2. 6   2.6   2.6   2. 6   2.6    158a                1717         -    l. I
CHIEF 13EC338NIC                                4        4        4        4        4       4        24       S9 75           2.9      2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9        ?. )              19. 6        -    19. 6
8651 3ICCIANIC                          -       4        4        4        4        4       4        24       3S5.9            3.7I    3.7   1.7   3.1   1.?   I.?       10.O3              11.1 I              I,.



wvmhbin of Ttola fact. 4t
mug 4100
2gntity                                                           Setso CTtt  n I                                tettl
--  ------------------------------      ----   -- -              mt£e.  tes   £
1901   1960    t#88    1990   .121    tD92 1M9         TteSIM      tft Cost  tO87  "a    I980    MD  ml90  132  tS1903  Total  For. tEu   tao.)  lass    totel
..... ..*.t--. ............ .S .....                                      .............. ........   . .................. ............ .......... ............ .......... 5.*.5-
F(A  IUACHINERY OpERAtOR            -       4       4        4       4       4       4       24      359.       -   1. r    1 7    .  t   t. I   I. I 9.1     to. 3    -    I. ?         -     .
STORE REfPEl                         -      4        4       4       4       4       4       24      47.1           2.3     2.3   2.3  5.3   2.2   2.3    13.?         -    tS.5         -    tS.5
DROVetJEt                          a-       6        8       8 8             a       a       46      35.69      -3  4       3 4  2.4    .4   3.4 3.4    20.6           -   23.4          -   23.4
CtEtes TtytStS                              a        a       aa-  8  3  a    8       8        t      32.6t      -  1, 4          1 .4   3.4   3.4  3.4    20.6         -   234           -    234
tot3fE                               -       8       6       8       6       8       8       48      24.0?      -  2.3      2.3  2.3   2. 3   2.3   2.3    13. 0        -    15.         -    15. 
CIEMERS                             -       4        4       4       4       4       4       24      2.0?       - 1.2       1.2  1.2   1.2   1.2   L.2    1.0           -     1.D        -    7.9
PIUinEtT  Utam                              10     tO       tO      10      10      to       60      24.07      -  2.9      2.*  2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9    117.          -    T9. 8       -    to 
TEFOUrT t411111                     -       tO o     0      tO      to      to      to       60      ?4 07          2.9     2 9   2.9   2.9   2.9   ?.9   t7 4               t 9 a            19 61
Sib-total EtCOS IJ_ OR t.t1LE.
tISET. 8"l0w0)                                                                                                  - 33.1    33.r 33.1  33. 7 3.1    .   202.1             -  m2.           -  3S
Sib-Total SALARIES                                                                                                       53 3.6   23. 6   3.t6  2.6  53.6  23.6   321.0       -  36 6          -  736.0
S. TECWIC3At ASSISTAME
-... ---------------
SIRECTOR OF TRAINING                    t       t       I       I       -       -       -        4      8.40   o too.0 to0.0    too.0 100.    - -         -  490.0   431 9         -        -  42.0
SORT TEISC aOs. a0                     2       a8       8       a               a       a       53        S3   So.o0  8o.e0   60.0  60.  60.0  80.0 60.0  530.0   29t.2            -        *  262.1
OVERSEAS TRAI31NG                       -       I       2       2       2       I       1        9      2.075      * 25.0  0so    S0.0 S. 0  22.0  22. o 22.0   223.9              -        -  22.9
HORKSHOlStO                             -       4       4       4       4       4       4       24        4t5      -20        20   0  29.0  200  20. 0  2  0   120 0    136.3                   t e6.3
Sub-Total TECHNUICAL. ASStSTAtCE                                                                                  0SOo 225 0   2s0 022O.0 15. 0 122.0 122 0 1.275.0  I.424.6         -        - 1.424 6
C. CPERAEIIH COSTS
t. FtETC:
FUEL:  4 NO IRAIERS-                        2       2        2       2       2       2       12        168      -  4 o      40   4.0   40   4. 0   4.0    24 0    27. 1       1.4        -   28.6
FUEL:  4 NO OTtER                    -               I       I       I       I       I        6      199.2      -  2 4      2 4   2 4   2.4   2.4   2.4    14 4    1s.3      0.9         -       I7.1
BUIttOING HAtIHEUtACE                -      10     tO       to      10      to      tO       60         63      -  to      0to.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0    60.0    42.8    28.6         -   71.4
VCLE mHNCE (PER VENICLE)                    3        3       3       3       3       3       1s      207 5          7 s     7. 2   7.25  7.5   7.2   t.S    45.0    32.1    21.4         -   53. 2
StATIOKERY/SUPPLIES                         10     t0       10      t0      10      10       o0         83      -  10.0   to0  10.0 0o.0  10.0  10.0   60.0    42.8    28.6              -   71 4
PREPt COMI SOFTtARE                  -              20      20               -       -       sO         63         20.0 200  20.0         -      -     -   600    41 4    27.6           -   69 0
TRAINEE 8Ro
(ItRAINEE DAY7S ).               -  3.000   3,000   3.000   3. 00   3.000   3.000   16.000         0.42      -  IS      IS    12.0  tS0  t S. 0  15.0   90.0        -   107 1        -   107.1
RENT (FOREIPATsI                     - E             1       1       -       -       -        3        496      -  6.0      6.0   6.o      -     -     -    t6.0        -    201         -   20.1
PER DiEFl (EXPfTS SOD               -        1       I       t       -       -       -        3       2.7t6     -  0 7      0. 7  0. 7                       2.2       -     2.          -    2. 5
PER DIEtS (OTHER 12001              -       10      10      10      tO      tO      10       SO      59.S       -  7.2      7.2   7.2   7.2   T.2   t.2    43.2        -   st.4          -   Si.4
Sib-total FETC:                                                                                                    - 82.6   82.8  82.8  26.t  26.1 S26t  416.6   269.0   20.t1                    ; 6.7
2. REGIONAL ETC0S                                                                                                                                                                                                1.
FUEt:  4 NOt TRAERS                 -       2       2        2       2       2       2       t2        16       -  4 0      4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0    24.0   2V1.        1.4       -   gLt6
ttEt-:  IRRIOtrI1IIPt13             -        I       I       I       I               I I      6        249      -  3.0      3.0   3.0   2o   2.0  3.0    I.0    20.3          1.1        -   21.4
fUEL:  UIIL CONN. UNI7T             -                 1     t       I       I       I        6      298.8      *  3.6      3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6  3.6    21.6    24.4        1.3        -   2M 7
FUEL   tRACTORS                     -        I       I       I       I       t       1        6        332          4.o0    4.0   4.0  4.0   4.0   4.0    24.0    21.1        1.4             28. 6
FUEL:  lONER FittER                 -        I       1       1       I       I       1        6 a    I9.2       *  2.4    2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   14.4   1t.3    0.9                     7. It
NUTCE:  111C1. 111114. UNtt                  I       I       1       1       I       I        6     276.39      -  3.3      3 3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3    20.0    2t6        1.2        -   23.8
MINCE.  tRACTORS                     -       I       I       I       I       I       It             230.74          2.8     2.8   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.8    16.7      8. 9     1.0        -    19. 
1m2CE-  PDl£R FILLER                 -       I       I       I       I       I       1        6     138.61      -   1.7     1.7   1.1    . 7   1.7   1.1   to 0      K1 3    0.6         -    11.9
tsTCE:  IRRIOATIOUPIttP              -       1       I        I  I                  I        6      62.25      -  06       0.6  0.8   0.8   0.8   0.6       4.5     S.1     0.3         -      .4
911ta11030 H*ItE*lCE                 -     20       20      20      20      ?0      20      t20         8       - 20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0 e     20.0    0.7    57.1          - I42.6
VCtE MTiCE tRPEf VEHICLE)           -       2        2       2       2       2       2       12      207.5          5.0     2.0  S,.   S.O   5.0  s.0    30.0    21.4    14.3                 3 3.7
STAtIOERT/sUPPLIES                  -      20      ?0       2e      2e      20      20 2t0              63      -20.0    20.0 20.0 220.20.0 200    t2e.0             5.7    S?. I            1 42.8
ON FGRI EXPEJSES Xf                  -     40       40      40      40      40      40      240         83         40.0    40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  240.0   tt.4  1t4.2            -   28s.6
tRAINIEE 6RO
ttE5 OATS) 6g                        S.1I4   S. 1t4   5.184   S. 184   S.184   5.184   31. 104     0.42      - 25.9   2S. 9  22.9  22.9  22 9  26.9   t55           - S85              -   5s t
TRAIkNEE 629
(FArMER OATS) i                  -   t. 2O   t.200   t. 200   1.200   1.200   1.20     . .200     0.42           6.0     60   6. 0   6.0   6.0   8 .0    .0             42.6             42.8
Sib-Total RNEGIOAL ETCS                                                                                            - 142.S  142.5 142.2 42.5 142. S  42. 5   6547   S27.3  479.6           -1.011t
Sub-Total OPERAtING cOss                                                                                              - 225.3  222.3 222.3  98 6 198.6 13L66 1.21t.S   739.9   1t9.9           - . SOO.8
Total RECEtIRRT COStS                                                                                                  10.0 S03.9    M8 S.520.9 402. 231. 2 37. 2.666.3 2. I  64. S t.135.4       2;300.0
Total                                                                                                                  342.0 66.4 2.005.4 716.9 442.2 21.2 37.2 S.061.3  46. 8.1 1.66a3I            - 5.111.2
/f  Offic lo enosstlon  4aale  13000 and Oldt e S.000 Includas .xtton on off eo.  Tontay is just t  ETC oft  loso *.o.01t'.
/b  Janslo. lontoy.                                                                                                                                                                               I*1
C  Haotor Supplies 0TS3660001:  dowhsr:   erwoebol 24.000. Pu.ot I2OHP) S.400. pipe S.000.                  9t Fuel. poaticidae. foretiite" and otIiO  l2uts.                                   47    t
denn to:  Put f0t (2  HP) 5.t00. Pipos 3.000.  6onaS   Pipes 3.000.                                     /,  2t1  FN "to du"s a  atw for a year at G5M. oody.                                      w
/d  S.o Plorut Riport on Teaining in AftEt 1t.                                                               t  2g *^_ a eX  at 4 fTCas fr a oT  at US$.0Su0/dy.
/f  3.1000 trtme days at US5. 00/day.



sowtaua
SECOND4 O*ICIDLTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table 400. AGRICUtTUR.At RESEARCH
0eoti led Cost table
ISO. SH.  0001
Ot.skdoun of Totals Icl. Cnt
WUSS  0001
Quantity                                                        Sose  Costs in S                               Local
**- --------------                               -------------------------------------------                (Excl. Duties I
1987  1988  1989  1990 1991  t992    t993    Total        Unit Cost  1987  98U   tgS89   t990  t991  1992  1993  Total for. Etch. Taxesl  Taxos   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
80411A BUILDING RENAH  ff2)                -     -   100    -    -         -       -        100      39.01      -     -    47 0      -     -     -      -    47.0      43.2   10.8          -    54.1
TYPE A HOUSES (100 SQNI                    -     -     3    -    -        -        -         3       4,565     -      -   165.0      -     -     -      -   165.0     151.8   38.0         -   189.8
TYPE B HOUSES (75 SON)                    -      -     3    -    -        -        -         3   3.423.75                123 8                             123.8     113. 9   285              1 42.3
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                              -     -   335.8      -     -      -     -   335.8     308.9   77 2          -   386.1
S. VEHICLES
t. RESEARCH DIRECTORATE:
4 WO STATIONNAGON                      -      2        -       -       -        -         2       1t245        30.0                                       30. 0     31. 0     . 6       -    32.6
Sub-Total RESEARCH DIRECTORATE,                                                                                   30.0        -      -     -     -      -    30.0      31. 0    1. 6       -    32.6
2. BONKA RESEARCH STATION
4 ND PICUP TWIN CAB                    -      -     3    -    3        -        -         6       t.245     -           45. 0    -45. 0             -          0    95.4    5 0              100.4
Sub-Total BON7t4 RESEARCH STATION                                                                               -     -    45 0         45.0     -      -   9.O        9S.4    5.0          -   100.4
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                                 - 30.0    45.0       -  45.0      -     -    2.        120.4    6.7         -   133.0
C. EQUIPMENT
1. RESEARCH DIRECTORATE:
OffICE FURNITURE/
EQUIPNENT                           -    20      -    -    -        -       -         20         83         20.0        -     -      -     -     -    20.0       13. 7    9.t        -    22.8
NICROCONPUTER/ACCESSORIES               -     I     -    -    -                                   1. 245    -  15.0        -      -     -     -      -    15.0      15.5    0 8         -    t6.3
PHOTOCOPIER                            -      5     -    -    -        -        -         5          83     -5 0           -     -      -     -      -     5.0       5.2    0.3         -     5.4
LIBRARY FURNITURE/
SHELVES                             -    to      -    -    -        -        -        tO         83      -  10.         -     -      -     -     -    10.0        6.     4. 6        -    t 1.4
BO7S/PUBLICATIONS                     -      5     -    -    -        -        -         5          83           .0                                       5.0       4. 6    1. t       -      5. 7
Sub-Total RESEARCH DIRECTORATE:                                                                                - 55.0         -      -     -     -      -    55.0      45.?   15.9         -    6C.6
2. BONKA RESEARCH STATION
AG MACHINERY                           -      -     i    -    -        -        -         t       3,735     -      -    45.0     -      -     -      -    45.0      29.6   19. 8        -    49.4
OFFICE FURNITURE/
EQUIP7ENT                           -     -    10    -    -         -       -         tO         83      -     -    10.0      -     -      -     -    tO.0        6.9    4.6         -    t1.5
MICROCOMPUTER/
ACCESSORIES                         -      -     t    -    -        -        -         I       1.245     -     -      5.      -      -     -     -    15. 0      t5. 6    0. 8       -     6. 5
PHOTOCOPIER                            -      -     1    -    -        -        -         t         415     -                    -      -     -         -   .0       5. 2    0. 3       -     S.5
LIBRARY FURNITURE/                                                              
SHELVES                             -      -   .5                                      5         83            -      5.0     -      -     -     -     5. 0       3.5    2.3         -     5.6 ;
BOOKS/PUBLICAT1ONS                     -      -     S    -    -        -        -         5           3                  5 0         -        -      -         0     3 5    2 3                  a5 S         .
Sub-Total BONtOA RESEARCH STATION                                                                               -     -    85.0                              a 850     64. 3   30.1        -    94.4
Sub-Total EOUIPMENT                                                                                                - 55. 0    85 0                             t140. 0    ttO 0    45. 9       -   15.9
Tots I INVEStMENT COSTS                                                                                               - 85.0   465 B       - 45. 0      -     -   595.8;    545.3  129.8          -   675. t
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
1. RESEARCH DIRECTORATE
DIRECTOR GENERAL                      -      I     I    I    I        I        1         6     285.52      -   3.4      3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4    20.6 5             23.4         _    23.4



Eioedou  of lotatl Ircl. Cett
ttSS '000)
o,mntity                                                      Base  Costs in $                             total
- ..............                         . .  ----                             (Exet. Owvu   6
t19?  ts98  ts9s9  199  ts9   192    #993    Total      Owrl Cost  tss? 7t9U    1989   190  1991 t  m     1993  Totl for. ExcA. tote)   taxs   total
ECstI   WFlIcTOS                     -     2     2    2    2        2       2         t2     142 t      -  3 4  .3 4   3.4        4    . 4   3.4    20.              23.4         -    22 4
SEt81  tt#71                         -     I      I    I    I       I       1                 71 38     -0  9       0 90.909    0.9   0.9     5.2                -   s.9          -    S.9
SECREIitRlS                          -     2     2    2    2        2       2         12      47. t     -   1.      I I   1.   1. t .1   t.          6.8         -    7. 8        -    t.S
0ltIVER                                    2     2    2    2        2       2         12       5.9      -   0 9     0 9   0.9   0. 9   0.9   0.9     s.2              5.9               s.0'
RESSECWERR/CLCtEANt                        2     2    2    2        2       2         12      24. Ot        0.6     06   0. 6   0.    0.8   0.6     3.5               4.0               4.0
S*b-Totl RESElActt DIRECIHATE                                                                              -  10.3    10 3  #0 3  10.3  10.3  10.3    61.9               70.3        -    70.3
2. 101KA R8ESEARCtt StAt*t
SAtARIIESrAiS                        -     -   25   25   25        75      25        125         83           -    25 0  25.0  25. 0  2S 0  25. 0   t25.t            143 2        -   t43.2
Sub-Total EBlsA RESEAMRC  STATIO                                                                                 -   250   25.0  25.0  25.0  25 0   125.0            -  143.2        -   #43 2
Sub-totaI SALARIES                                                                                            -  103    35 3  35.3  35.3  35.3  35.3    85.             - 2135          -  213.5
t  TECHNIICAL ASSIStANCE
I RESEARCt DREtCtORATE
RESEORCttR 0DVSO                     -     t      t    I    t       ,       ,         t       8.300       1000   100 0 1000  e        100.0 10 t 0   600.0   618t1.5     -        -       5
Sub-Total RESEACII OIRECTORATI                                                                             - tOt.   tOO.0 100 0 100.  100.t0 100.0   t00.0       681.s               -  sal S
2. 81A ISEARC# STATION.
BREEDER/AGROIION#S7 tt. I.T          -     -      I    I    t       I        I        5       8.300     -     -   1000  too.0  0. 100.0 1 90  o s. 5o9.0     572 8       -        -  572. 
0YtttD 8GROtlOPISI                                I    I    I       I       1         5       8.300     -         1000  too.0 0oo. 0   t100.0 toO.0   500.0  5728                 -  5s2.8
EUTOt4LOCIST                         -     -      t    I    I       -                 3      8.300      -     -   100.0 too0  too.0      -     -   300.1p    334.0                    3 -   334.0
SOILS SCIEWtIST                            *      I    I       ,                      3      R.300      -     -   100 0 #00.  t00.0      -     -  300.0      334.0                -  334.0
SRORt it"R
- t?tP1.C11ENTS (/111             -     -    3    3    3         2       2        #3        830            -    30.0 30.    0.0  20.0  20.0   130.0       148,0       -        -   148.0
F AMING SYSTERS  11t/110                -     4    4    4        2       2        t6        830       -    -   400  400  40.0  20. 0  20.0   180.0        181.4                -    81. 4
-018 OTBER   /0                   -     -    3    3    3         -       -         9        830                 SO30  30.0  30.0            -   90. 0      O0.2      -                 s00.
S.h-tots# 801N8 RESEtlRCI STATION.                                                                         -     -  so.o0 soo.o0 s0.0 240.0 240.0 1.980.0   2.243.3         -        - 2.243.3
Sub-Total TECRICAt ASSISTANCE                                                                                 -00. 0   600.0 6000 6000  340.0 340.0 2.S.0   2.924.0            -        - 2.924.0
C OPE8RTING COSTS
I. RESEARMt DORECIORATEt
fUtt)    4 NO STATIONtt0t            -     2     2    2    2        2       2         12      398.4     -  96       9.6   9.6   9.8   9.6   9.6    57.         62 2    3.3        -    es.4
VCLE ITtCE tPER VEHICLE)             -     2     2    2    2        2       12       12       207.5     -     0     50   5. 0   5 0   5.0   5. 0    30. 0      20.4   13.6        -    34 tt
RESEARCI SUPPORT FUND                -     2     2    2    2        2       -         #0      4. SO     - 100. 0   10.0 o00.0 1000  too.       -  540.0       448. t  M2. 0       -   560. I
STtIOIIRY/sUPptIEs                   -     3     3    3    3        3       3         la         83     -  3.0      3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   it80         #2.3    8,2        -    s4
RENT IfOR EXP#IS)                    -     t      I    I    '       I       '         S         498     -   6.0     6.0   6.0   6.o0   60       .0    35.0        -  40.9         -    40.9
PfR OtEH (EXPAtS 12001                      I    5    5    s        3       3        22      119 52     -   1. 4    7.2   7.2   t.2   4.3   4.3    31.7           -   35.9        -    35 9
PER OIE80  1 OTER t200I                    2     2    2    2        2       2         12    s5.76           1.4     t 4   1 4   1.4   1.4   t 4      S8.          -   9.8                .8
Sub-Toatol 9ESFUC  OIRECTORTE:                                                                             - 126.5   132.2 132.2 13.2 129.4  29.4   681.9        542.8  223.7        -  788.6
2. 8011 RESEtARC STATION:
tRAVEL                               -     -     8   t8  IS        IS      18        90         83      -     -     8.0  i8.0  is. o    0  180    9 0.         6 2.5   20.6       -   #03. 1
SERIINAR/STUDIES                     -     -     6    6    6        6       6        30          83     -           6.0   6.0   8 0   5 0   6. 0    30.       #t.2   17.2         -    34.4
VEHIICLE FUlE/A1NT.                  -     *   21   21   21        21      21        I0"         83     -          21.0  21.0  21.0  21.0  21.0   105.01       98.2   24.1        -   120.3
RENT                                 -     -     - 0.4  0.4       0.4       4        1.6         83     *     -           0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4      1.6          -    1.9        -      1.9
eultotl#G 1A1INTEN8NCE               -     -    U3    3   13       13      13        6s          83     -     -    13.0  13.0  13.U0   3.0  03.0    65.0       44 7   29.8         -    74.5
AGRI. INPtiTS                        -     -   31   31   3t        31      31        t55         83     -          31.   31.0  31. 0  3t 0  31.0   155.0SS    142.    35.5             #77.6
Sub-Total 808tt RESEARCH STATION:                                                                                -    89 0  89 4  89.4  89.4  89.4   44h.6       382.5  129.0             Stt.7
Sub-Totol OPERATING COSTS                                                                                       t2S.S  721. 2 221. S 221.8 2t6.8 #18 1 12S.5       925.6  352.7 -t .278. 3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                             - 238.8  856.6 8s5.0 057.0 594.1 494.1 3 95. 4   3.A M*  5S8.3             - 4.41 6
total                                                                                                              - 32t 8 1.322. 67.O 90M.0 59".1 494.1 4.49#.2   4.395 S 696.1              - S.0St.t
. _ . _  _ ........   . _   . _ _ . .  _ _ _ . ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       1-I....  ...zt..  ...  ......%# I.....  .........  ....
tarch 31.  -987  17:5*                                                                                                          ----



-50-
ANNEX 3
Table 8
SW=CN SUaUPA 7I(N }T=
Items FinPne under PPF
(US$ '000)
Project  ( ~t~ Caeory            item_                Unit Cost  Nb. of Units   (bet
1.   Project          Twcnical        Techncal 1hner         10.00        0.7        70.00
Head Ottice      Assistance      Financial Ooatroller   100.00       0.7       70.o0
Vehicles
and equipmnt   fbtor Cycles              2.00       2          4.00
II.  Pield EKtension  Veicle and
(kdanation       0qFlpment       41) Vehicle            1b.00        2         32.00
IIL  fainixg          Civil Works     Pahabilitation of
kuildirgs for Jk1C:
emale Bonk and
Yontey                  1         10D.00     100.00
Vehicles and
iNkTC:       Minibus                 26.00       1         26.00
4.D PickV ¶Mn Cab      16.00        1         16.W
Madia Unit equipment    1          15.00      15.00
wrditure                1          10.00      10.00
ETJS        4Y4D Pickup Mn Cab      16.00       2         32.00
Ccmncation
Fquiptunt             1          20.00      20.00
Tbaching Aids           1          2U.00      20.00
Classrom sand dormitory
brniture                1          25.00      25.00
Tchnical       ofrt tenr consutants
Assistance        (MD)                  10.00       5         60.00
IV.  All CQponents   local Salaries  lisp sun to over
and   erat-   all items @ US$75,00U
irg costs     per munth                1        700.00     700.00
Total Base Costs                           1200.00



-51-
ANNEX 3
Table 9
SOIAt I A
SECOND AGRICUtTURAL EXIENSION PROdECt
Financing Plan by Project Cauponents
(USS Million)
AfRICAN
DEVELOPMENT GOVERNMENT OF
IDA          FUND          SOMALIA          to:al               tocal
-  For.   tExcl.  Duties a
Amount  2    Anount  2        Amount   2    b4wt   I    Exch.  Taxes)   taxes
:-v .::   ::                  =::   :::  ,sass: s,a:.  U2:::    ::;:::  t:t:::::
A. PROdECT HEAD OffICE                    3.8 53.a      ?.7 37.5        0.7   9.t      7.2  269    5.8         1.4 4
8  FIELD EXTENSION ORGANIZATION          2.3 27 2       4 5 52 3        1.8  20.5      8.0  32.2    5.4        3.2
C  TRAINING                              2 5 42 7       2. S43.5       0.8  13.8       5.6  21.9    4.2        1.0          -
D  AGRICUITURAt RfS[APCH                 4.o 78 9       0.7 13. 3       0. 4   7 9     5. It    . t    4.4     0.7 
lotal Disbursomont                         12.7 47.5     10.4 39.0        3.6  13.6    26.7 100.0   19.7         7.0
-_.-: ___    *: *_      v_T_  st              :stes         ::et:  :s::,  :::: ::tt
March 31, I9A7  17-52



-52-
ANNEX 4
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Disbursement by Financier by Semester
(US$ '000)
AFRICAN
DEVELOPMENT      GOVERNMENT
IDA            FUND           OF SOMALIA          TOTAL
Amount           Amount           Amount            Amount
Semester
1               -                  -             120.0             120.0
2            900                123.8            130.0           1,153.8
3          1,100                123.8            130.0           1,353.8
4          1,300              19615.5            140O0          3,055.5
5          1,400              1,615.5            200.0          3,215.5
6          1,100              2,077.0            220.0          3,397.0
7          1,200              2,077.0            250,0          3,527.0
8          1,000              1,328.2            280.0           29608,2
9          1,100              19328.2            380.0          29808.2
10            800                 59,6            480.0          1,339.6
11            900                 59.5            530.0          1*489.5
12            500                  -              570.0          1,070.0
13            700                                 150.0            850.0
14            685                  -               47.7            732,7
12,685.0         10*408,1          39627.7          26,720.8



-53-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Criteria for the Preparation and
Selection of Proposals for Research Work
to be Financed from the Research Support Fund
1.  Proposals could originate from AFMET, research stations or other Somali
Institutes, including the Research Directorate.
2.  The proposals would be discussed at the seasonal research program
planning seminar. Selection and approval would be the duty of the
Director General of Research taking full account of recommendations of
the planning seminar.
3.  Proposals for research abroad or costing more than US$100,000 would
require IDA review.
4.  Proposals for work to be supported by the Research Support Fund should
satisfy the following criteria:
(a) The proposed work must benefit farmers in the project area;
(b) It should be adaptive research that could include testing
applicability of foreign technology in Somalia on socio-economic
research with a clear objective and a good chance of attaining the
objective in a reasonably short time;
(c) Requests for problem solving submitted by the extension service
and which have not been included in other research programs should
have highest priority;
(d) Proposals should accord with national research priorities;
(e) They should be based on a complete survey of related research,
both ongoing and completed;
(f) They should not duplicate ongoing or completed research;
(g) The sponsoring entity should demonstrate satisfactory facilities
and capability to carry out the proposed task;
(h) Financial support to local institutes would be considered for all
expenditure for which auditable accounts can be maintained--
including equipment, books, journals, incremental labor and staff
costs, other operating costs, compiling and printing costs and, in
exceptional cases, short-term technical assistance; and



-54-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(i) The following should form part of a proposal:
(i) A clear description of the work to be done, including
objectives and benefits;
(ii) Experimental design and methods for collecting, and analyzing
data and compiling results;
(iii) Details of equipment, staff and other facilities required,
including detailed cost estimates; and
(iv) An implementation plan and timetable.
5. The Director General should prepare a draft agreement satisfactory to
IDA prior to awarding the first contract for research work to be
financed by the Research Support Fund.



-55-                               ANNEX 6
Page 1
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
A. Studies
1. Short-Term Studies for AFMET
The Terms of Reference of special consultant studies to be
commissioned under the project would be drawn up by AFMET or the Research
Directorate as the case may be, and approved by IDA.
B. Project Personnel
1.    The General Manager, AFMET
The General Manager, would have overall responsibility for the
implementation of project components assigned to AFMET.
Duties and Responsibilities:
(a)   Execution of civil works, procurement of vehicles, equipment,
commodities and other physical facilities for the extension
and training components of the project, in accordance with
IDA guidelines and in consultation with the Technical
Manager, AFMET and the Financial Controller.
(b)   Coordination with Ministries, Departments, Government
Agencies and other project management units concerned, and
educational and research institutions.
(c)   Recruitment of Somali staff for AFMET positions, in
consultation with the Technical Manager for technical posts,
and the Financial Controller for others.
(d)   Selection and appointment of long and short term consultants
in consultation with the Technical Manager and Financial
Controller.
(e)   Selection of Somali staff in consultation with the Technical
Manager, for overseas training, study trips and participation
in seminars and workshops.
(f)   Allocation of vehicles, machinery and equipment procured for
the extension and training components to the project
functionaries according to their needs.



-56-                          ANNEX 6
Page 2
Qu!alifications:
Degree or equivalent qualification in Agriculture or allied
sciences, and at least 10 years' field experience in Agriculture, in
management positions.
2.     The Director General of Research
He would be overall responsible for agricultural research in
Somalia. More specifically, he would be responsible for the
implementation of those components of the project, for which the Research
Directorate would be responsible.
(a)   Execution of civil works, procurement of vehicles, equipment,
commodities and other physical facilities in accordance with
IDA guidelines and in consultation with the Research Adviser
and the Financial Controller.
(b)   Recruitment of Somali staff for Research Directorate
positions, and for positions in research stations for which
the Research Directorate would be responsible, in
consultation with the Research Adviser for technical posts
and Financial Controller for others.
(c)   Selection and appointment of long and short term consultants
in consultation with the Research Adviser and Financial
Controller.
(d)   Prepare, in consultation with the Directors of research
stations, and the Technical Manager AFMET, the long-term
research strategy for Somalia, indicating the research
priorities, and initiate steps for its implementation.
(e)   Provide technical support to research stations in their
formulation of near-term research plans, and coordinate their
implementation to avoid duplication of research efforts and
facilitate sharing of expertise.
(f)   Review annual research programs of the stations, and discuss
with the Station Directors and AFMET Technical Manager, their
relevance and their focus on farmers' production constraints.
(g)   Review AFMET's field trial programs.
(h)   Review the working of research - extension linkages.
(i)   Identify the existing technology gaps in Somalia, and
commission adaptive research to bridge them, in consultation
with research stations and extension.
(j)   Administer the Research Support Fund;



57                            ANNEX 6
Page 3
(k)   Help to organize seasonal research seminars at national and
research station level.
(1)   Implement the decisions of the Project Technical Coordination
Committee relating to research.
Qualifications
(a)    Masters' or equivalent degree in Agriculture, preferably
with specialisation in Agronomy.
(b)    At least 15 years' research experience.
(c)    A good record of research publications.
3.     The Technical Manager, AFMET
The Technical Manager would have overall responsibility for
extension, training and field trials.
Duties and Responsibilities:
(a)    Assist the General Manager, A?MET in carrying out his
responsiblities under the project.
(b)    Provide technical support to and supervise the work of the
Director of Extension and the Director of Training.
(c)    Supervise the work of the Monitoring and Evaluation unit.
(d)    Maintain liaison with the Research Directorate and the
research stations to ensure effective research - extension
linkages.
(e)    Participate in the preparation of the long term research
strategy and station research programs and prepare the AFMET
field trials program in consultation with the Research
Directorate and the Station Director concerned.
(f)    Identify the production constraints faced by farmers in the
adoption of extension recommendations, and communicate them
to the appropriate research station for further
investigation.
(g)    Identify areas where fresh adaptive research is necessary,
and liaise with the Director General of Research for
initiating the needed research efforts.
(h)    Implement decisions of the Project Technical Coordination
Committee relating to extension and training.



ANNEX 6
-58-                           Page 4
Qualifications:
(a)    Postgrxduate degree in Agriculture, preferably Agronomy,
(b)    At least 15 years' working experience in agricultural
extension or training in a developing country preferably in
the T & V system of extension.
(c)    Experience in the design and implementation of adaptive
research.
4.     The Financial Controller
The Financial Controller would be directly responsible to the
General Manager, AFMET for the financial management of the extension and
training, and to the Director General of Research for the research
components of the project.
Duties and Responsibilities:
(a)     Assist the General Manager, AFMET and the Director General
of Research in carrying out their responsibilities.
(b)     Preparation of Annual Work Program and Budget for all the
project components.
(c)     Maintenance of project accounts.
(d)     Control of accounting and administrative matters of AFMET
and the Research Directorate.
(e)     Ensure proper recording of all assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses of AFMET and the Research
Directorate,
(f)     Ensure timely finalization of annual accounts of the
project for completion of audit as stipulated in the Credit
Agreement.
(g)     Prepare and forward credit withdrawal applications in
respect of all eligible project expenditures.
(h)     Train Somali accountants, procurement officers, and
financial controllers.
Qualifications
(a)     Professional qualification in accounting, preferably a
Certified Public Accountant, or a Chartered Accountant or
equivalento



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(b)     At least five years' experience as chief accountant or
controller, preferably in an agricultural research
organisation or an agricultural development agency.
(c)     Experience in developing countriea.
5.     The Director of Training, AFMET
The Director of Training would be responsible for the planning and
organization of training prograus in the FMETC and ETC. He would be
responsible to the Technical Manager, AFMET.
Duties and,Responsibilities:
(a)     Prepare annual schedule of training programs for the FMETC
and ETCs.
(b)     Develop FMETC and ETC training curricula.
(c)     Assess the requirement of long and short-term training
consultants, draw up their terms of reference, assist in
their recruitment, supervise their work and review the
training curricula prepared by them.
(d)     Identify resource persons for FMETC training programs,
workshops and seminars.
(e)     Suggest short term overseas training programs suitable for
Somali extension staff and assist in the selection of staff
to be sent for overseas training.
(f)     Coordinate with the Director of Extension in the selection
of participants for FMETC and ETC training courses.
(g)     Prepare an evaluation of training courses and participants
at the conclusion of each course.
(h)     Identify suitable training equipment, including audio
visuals, essential for effective teaching and hands-on
training and make recommendations for their procurement.
(i)     Set up audiovisual units, library, and training facilities
at the FMETC and ETCs.



-60-                         ANNEX 6
Page 6
Qualifications:
(a)     Ph.D in Agriculture preferably in Agricultural Extension.
(b)     At least 15 years' experience in agricultural extension or
research in a developing country with at least 8 years'
experience in training extension personnel.
6.     The Research Adviser
The Research Adviser would have overall responsibility for all
technical matters relating to research in Somalia, and more specifically,
to the research components of the project.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a)     Assist the Director General of Research in carrying out
his responsibilities under the project.
(b)     Provide technical support to the research stations in
Somalia, and coordinate their work.
(c)     Coordinate all agricultural research, including research
for specific projects.
(d)     Visit the research stations at least twice every season,
and review the station research, AFMET field trial
programs, research participation in extension training and
generally the functioning of research extension linkages.
(e)     Take an active interest in FMETC training programs, and
review the curricula prepared by the training consultants.
(f)     Bring out the semi-annual journal of the Research
Directorate.
(g)     Organize recording and storage of past and future research
data and its easy recrieval.
Qualifications
(a)     Ph.D or equivalent in Agriculture.
(b)     At least 15 years' research experience in a developing
country with agro-ecological conditions similar to Somalia.
(c)     A good record of research publications.
(d)     Experience of interaction with the extension system,
preferably T&V.



-61-                         ANNEX 6
Page 7
7.     Regional Extension Officer
The Regional Extension Officer would be overall responsible for
the implementation of Extension and Training at the regional level. He
would provide leadership to his team and would provide them technical
support in program planning.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a)     Plan the extension thrust in his region with regard to
agro-ecological conditions, cropping system and the types
of farmers.
(b)     Assist and guide the FEAs and the DEOs in planning of
scheduled visits; identification of contact farmers;
organization of farmers'group meetings and field days.
(c)     Guide the region in organizing and conducting monthly FEA
training at the ETC; discuss with them the lesson plans and
impact points for each crop before the commencement of
training; supervise the preparation of handouts to be
supplied to the FEAs.
(d)     Spend a minimum of 12 days every month on field visits to
supervise extension, covering all FEA circles in the
region at least once every month.
(e)     Visit the field trial plots and assess farmer reaction to
the trials.
(f)     Participate in field days and attend farmers' group
meetings organized by extension,
(g)     Coordinate with input and credit agencies, research
institutions, and local administration as necessary.
(h)     Visit research stations in the region, discuss
farmers' problems with the research staff providing them
feedback from the field for further necessary action.
(i)     Provide administrative, financial and material support to
extension staff in the region.
(j)     Prepare monthly progress report of the extension and
training programs to be sent to Director of Extension.
(k)     Maintain daily diary mentioning PEA circles visited,
summary of discussions with farmers; their production
problems, solutions offered and references made to research
for further investigation; visits to the field trial plots;
and suggestions and guidance given to the FEA/DEO.



-62-                          ANNEXV6
Page 8
2ualfications
A degree or equivalent in Agriculture, with practical field
experience in supervising extension.
8.     District Extension Officer
The District Extension Officer would be the first line supervisor
and would supervise 7 to 10 FEAs.
Duties and Responsibilites:
(a)     Spend a minimuin if 16 days on field visits each month,
covering all FEA circles at least once every fortnight.
(b)     Assist FEAs in grouping the farm families in their circles
into 8 groups and identification of contact farmers in
each group.
(c)     Guide the FEAs in holding farmers' group meetings, and
participate in the meetings.
(d)     Assist FEAs in organizing field days and identifying of
farmers' fields where they would be held, and preparing
discussion contents.
(e)     Participate in group meetings and field days.
(f)     Check the effectiveness of FEAs' work as reflected in: (a)
the regularity of their visits to farmer groups; (b) the
interaction between the FEA, contact farmers and other
farmers; (b) quality of communication of the extension
messages and (d) their adoption both by contact farmers and
others;
(g)     Communicate farmers' problems needing quick answers to the
SMSs, and organize their field visits.
(h)     Assist the FEAs in selecting field trial sites and in
laying out the trials and according to the guidelines
provided by the FMETC v
(i)     Review each month the rate of adoption of extension
recomnendations by contact farmers and diagnose the
reasons for low rate of adoption where relevant.
(j)     Periodic review of diffusion of extension recommendations
from contact farmers to others and changes of contact
farmers as necessary.
(k)     Examine FEA diaries, and discuss them with FEAs.
(1)     Attend monthly FEA training programs at the ETCs



-63-                         ANNEX 6
Page 9
(m)     Estimate the input requirements and communicate them to
the REO and the agencies concerned.
(n)     Coordinate with other agencies in agriculture such asS
irrigation water agency, inputs and credit institutions,
and tractor hiring agency, as necessary.
(o)     Maintain daily diary recording  work accomplished,
focussing particularly on the farmers' production
constraints brought to the notice of REO and SMSe.
Qualifications
Diploma from the Agricultural Secondary School and field
experience in agricultural extension.
9.     Field Extension Agent
The Field Extension Agent (FEA) is the front line extension worker
and would be responsible for transmitting extension recommendations to
farmers.
._jties and Responsibilities:
(a) Group the farm families in his circle into 8 groups and
select about six contact farmers.
(b) Visit each group on a fixed day each week according to the
following schedule:
Saturday  Sunday  Monday   Tuesday  Wednesday Thursday   Friday
1st week    Gr. I    Gr.II   Gr. III   Gr. IV   Meeting   Extra    Holiday
with      visit if
DEO 'and needed.
other
agencies
Saturday  Sunday  Monday   Tuesday  Wednesday Thursday   Friday
2nd week     Gr. V   Gr. VI  Gr. VII  Gr. VIII  Meeting   Extra    Holiday
with DEO visit if
& other   needed
agencies
(c) Participate in the monthly ETC training and attend periodic
in-service training organized at the FMETC or ETC.
(d) Stay in his area of operation.



-64-                        ANNEX 6
Page 10
(e)   Be responsible for: demonstration of skills to farmers;
motivating farmer to adopt extension recommendations on parts
of the fields; diagnosis of farmers' production constraints
and transmitting them to the DEO; dissemination of results
obtained by contact farmers, from adoption of recommended
practices, to other farmers; field days and farmers' group
meetings; field trials on selected farmers' fields under
their cwn management as per guidelines of the FMETC.
(f)   Maintain daily diary to record his field visits, names of
farmers met; problems brought to his notice and action
taken; and any other matter of importance having a bearing
on technclogy adoption by farmers.
Qualifications:
Diploma from Agricultural Secondary School.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
The monitoring and evaluation unit would assess the impact of the
project through the implementation of its extension and training
components. It would identify key indicators to monitor project
implementation and carry out surveys, including crop cutting, to measure
project impact. It would collect and process data and present them in a
form usable by the Project Management, Government Departments and donor
agencies.
More specifically, it would:
(a)   Prepare, for identified key indicators, the annual target
output, broken down, where necessary, into seasonal and
monthly targets, indicating the financial and material
requirements for the achievement of these targets.
(b)   Prepare and submit to Project Management periodic progress
reports, as required.
(c)   Carry out a baseline survey within six months of project
effectiveness.
(d)   Undertake surveys as necessary, to monitor specific factors,
such as quality of training, effectiveness of contact farmers
and use of animal power on farm.
(e)   Prescribe methods of collecting the needed information, from
records. through staff surveys, market surveys, crop cutting
experiments and other sources, and determine the frequenc, af
data collection.
(f)   Identify areas where special studies would be necessary, and
consultants to be engaged to carry them out.
(g)   Monitor the producer prices in the main markets.



-65-
ANNEX 6
Page 11
D. Project Technical Coordination Committee
The Project Technical Coordination Committee would oversee the
implementation of the project and review the performance of research and
extension once every quarter. More specifically, it would:
(a) Review the long term research strategy for Somalia, and
decide on research priorities.
(b) Review the station research programs and assess their
utility and relevance in the light of the long term strategy
and priorities.
(c) Review the functioning of research extension linkages,
particularly the planning of adaptive research programs to
respond to feedback from extension, and the participation of
researchers in extension training.
(d) Assess the input requirements as projected by extension, and
review arrangements for making them available to farmers;
and particularly, the performance of the research stations
in breeder and foundation seed production.



-66-
WfNEX 7
Table I
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
No, of courses run in the FMETC and ETCs
in the First Phase Project
YEAR               FMETC                ETCs                TOTAL
1982                 3                   9                    12
1983                 3                  12                    15
1984                 5                   9                    14
1985                 7                   7                    14
TOTAL                18                 37                    55



-67-
ANNEX 7
Ta ble 2
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Details of Overseas Training in the First Phase Project
Area of Specialization   No. Sponsored   No. Returned   No. Under  No. Whose Tralning
Training     was Terminated
Agricultural Extension          3                1             2
Agricultural Education          1                -             1
Farm Management                 7                5             1               1
Agricultural Economics          5                4             -               1
Finance & Accounts              3                -             2               1
Agronomy                        5                -             4               1
Plant Protection                1                -             -               1
Agricultural Engineering        1                1             -
Agricultural Communication      1                1             -
Animal Husbandry                1                -             1
TOTAL                          28               12            11               5



-68-
ANNEX 8
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
FMETC Training Plan
The FMETC would conduct two types of training programs (a)
induction training for FEAs and (b) periodic in service training:
(a)     Induction training:  Every newly recruited FEA would undergo 28
weeks of induction training, which would be on a sandwich pattern,
divided into 3 phases. The first phase of training lasting for 8 weeks,
would be in the FMETC, and would consist of lectures and hands-on
training at the Afgoi farm. The second phase lasting for 16 weeks, i.e.
one full cropping season would consist of field work, when, as trainee
FEAs, they would be attached to good and experienced PEAs to learn the
operation of the extension system, communication skills, and participation
in group meetings. YMETC,staff would regularly contact the trainees in
the field and evaluate their performance. The trainees would attend the
FEAs' monthly training sessions at the ETCs. At the end of field
training, they would go back to the FMETC for the third phase of the
training for 4 weeks which would include traiaing in laying out adaptive
trials and carrying out crop cutting surveys. Many of the existing FEAs
and DEOs would also be required to attend the first and tnird phases of
the induction training.
(b)     In service training:  The FMETC would run a refresher course
every year for FEAs of 42 days duration, It would als organize a number
ot in-service training programs for others(Table 1).



-69-                             AN= 8
T*ble 1
SWALJA
mSW  ARIaU3AL Ea                  PRAiEt
M*sr of imrm
St%=  man                       lb. of   Dirt1t     lb. of         let       ad       3rd      4th     5th      6th
aZSS                T1zg*y        yaw       year     yw         er Ye  YqW
1.               -      il
(i) NM                            3          70        210           1         1        1        -       -        -
(i4) hfrs                         6         42        252            1         1        1        1       1        1
lbtal                        9                   462            2         2        2        1    .1          1
2. PrDDa  plauing                6           7         42           1         1        1        1       1        1
3.,  M. m,,d    & cmumicatlon
(i)  for Tranew                   6         28         168           1         1        1        1       1        1
(i) for" tme (s (I/PFb)           6          14         84           1         1         1        1       1       1
4. lkt. M     _ngent              2         21         42                      1                         1
bal                        20                    336           3'        4        3        3       4        3
5. Hm oreKws opeve1opmint
(i)  Uain hiofemm                 3         14         42            1                  1                1
(ii) Tani    ofyuth               3          14         42                     1                  I               1
Tal                         6                    84            1         1        1         1      1        1
6, Wate mvwganent                2          14         28                              1                 1
7.t Ralaed fargs                 3         14         42                      1        1        1
8.  hT;tsd fam&9                 2          14         2B                                       1 l
9. 4gri. 1Pemots                 2          7          14                     1                 1
10. Eati otectln                  3          7         21            1                  1                1
ll. Livestode eeopm*              3          7         21                                        1       1        1
12. Ibtlbcltum                    2          7          14                              1                1
13. A    m  of mjor crops         3         14         42            1         1
lbtJl                       20                   210            2         3        4        4       4        3
14. 9sdnar  1 Workshops          12          7         84            2         2        2        2       2        2
15. OrCltati4m to l&V to
cm ectn.professianals
- staft ot Inputs, credit
organaations                 6          2          12           1         1        1        1       1         1
16. Trainirg to staff of other
projects umnticALpated
tra:iULU   nees              6          7         42            1         1        1        1       1         1
Total                       24                    138           4         4        4        4       4         4
(kanl total                  79                   1230          12        14       14        13     14        12



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Status of Technology
1.      Agricultural research in Somalia is generally confined to (i)
crops and crop varieties; (ii) fertilizer responses; (iii) pest control
and (iv) crop management aspects such as time of planting, plant
population and weeding.
2.      Crops and crop varieties:  Focus has been on irrigated and
rainfed maize, sorghum, and legumes (cowpea, mungbean, peanut, and
sesamum). Research on rice, sunflower, safflower and vegetables has
recently started. Maize and sorghum account for 85-90% of cropped area,
and sesamum ten percent. Legumes, vegetables and other crops are minor
crops at present. Legumes are generally intercropped with sorghum, and
to a lesser extent with maB?.e.
3.      While new varieties of maize and cowpea have been developed,
improved sorghum varieties suitable for rainfed areas of Somalia are
still being developed. Somtex variety of maize and semi-erect variety of
cowpea have gained farmer acceptance in the Lower and Middle Shebelli and
Bay regions. Sorghum growing areas are, however, using the indigeneous
planting material, but some low cost crop husbandry practices such as row
planting, maintenance of plant density, inter-cropping with legumes,
control of borers and timely weeding have been introduced by the
extension service in these areas.
4.      Fertiliser responses:  Fertilizer trials on maize and rice crops
conducted at research stations and on farmers' fields have produced
usable results. The application of nitrogen on these two crops in the
Lower and Middle Shebelli is spreading. Phosphate deficiency in the Bay
region soils has been identified as a problem and several on-station
trials to determine the optimum dose of phosphate to sorghum and legumes
are in progress. Some results would become available shortly for the use
of the extension service. Soil fertility studies are also continuing at
Afgoi and Bonka research stations.
5.      Pest control:  Control measures for stem borers in maize and
sorghum have been studied and widely tested in AFMET field trials.
Extension recommendations, based on the-:e traials have been widely
adopted by farmers. Reasonably adequate research findings are also
available on the control of termites, smut and other pests and diseases
and these are being field tested by the extension service.
Recommendations on these would be available shortly.



-71-
ANNEX 9
Page 2
6.      Crop management:       Research findings on crop management in
maize, cowpea and sesamum have been propagated by the extension service
with remarkable results. Recommendations on crop sequences and rotations,
inter-cropping with maize, sorghum and sesamum; alternative crops of
economic value (e.g. rice in Middle Shebelli) have been developed. These
include: planting of maize or sorghum on the harvest of legumes; and
inter-cropping of cowpea, mungbean and peanut with maize and sorghum.
7.      Research gaps relating to field preparation, including proper
levelling and grading, conservation of soil moisture, varieties of higher
value crops adaptable to Somalia irrigated and rainfed conditions, farm
implements and the use of animal power remain. While inter-cropping
recommendations in rainfed areas are being followed by some farmers, more
precise recommendations regarding the pattern of intercropping and
spacing are not available. There is a serious drainage and attendant
salinity problems in the rice growing areas of Middle Shebelli. The
proposed Research Directorate would address these gaps and initiate the
necessary research efforts.



-72-
AHTNME 10
CUItRLEO 1.l3At11F10   a-3)                              Table  1
Bittuoo     5514
frjot   Projec
vw                                     I         2         3         4          5         4         7         S         9       0- 5
2/
Nt NJ Cropped or"     ha.
Catrelld lrrigatio         3.00       3.00      3.00      3.0        .00       3.50      3.50      eoo       4,00      4.00       4.00
,ailg                     1.50      1.50      3.50       1.50      1.50      I.50       1.50      2.00     2.00       2.00      2.00
sn                        1.00      1.00      1.00       5.00      3.00      1.50      1.50       1.50      1.50      1.50      3.50
Pls                       0.50      0.20      0.50      0.50       0.50      0.50      0.50       0.50     0.50       0.50      0.10
Crop field      kg/ak.
Rat,                      1500      1500      1500       1000      3700      1750      t600       150       3900      1950      2030
sem                        500       500       500       550        550       so5            570  510       562       505        05
Puts"                      300      W3                   450        500       500       550       550        550       550       025
6ros Prdction  kg.
Noise                 2,250.00  2,250.0   2,250.00  2,"0.00  2,550.00   2,42.00   2,100.0   3,700.00  3,000.00  3,9O.0   4,000.0
sumo                    500.00    500.00    500.00    550.00    550.00    340.00    65.00    605.szo      0I7o.0    67.50    975.00
P             se         50.00    150.00    550.00    225.00    26.00    250.00    275.00    275.00    275.00    275.00    312.50
hibt Volue of Predso.sks/il
aue            13.00 33,750.00  33,750.00 33,750.00  34,00.00  3,250.00 39,375.00  0,500.0o  55,500.00 57,000.00 53.500.00  60,900.00
Se.           40.00  30,000.00 30,000.00 30,000.00  13,000.00  33,000.00 50,400.00 51,300.00 51,300.00 s2,380.00  52,643.00 st,5o0.00
Paeso          32.00  4,600.00  4,600.00  4,300.00  7,200.00  *,000.00  0,000.00  8,000.00  8,600.00  6,000.00  3,600.00  10,000.00
Valuse of gss proe.sWkl s
60,350.00  46,SS0.00 60,550.00 76,200.00  79,250.00 97,m,00 100,400.0 11 5,400.00 113,110.00, lt,950.00 129,400.00
3,
Cusotin    so.sh.
990.00  9,O.00  9,900.00  9,90.00  9,90.00  9,900.00  9,900.00  9,9o.00  9,900.00  s,9o0.00  9,900.00
seed                  1,473.0   1,473.0   1,473.00  1,473.0   1,473.00  1,128.00  l,2.o0   1,964.00  1,96.0   3,964.00  1,964.00
iros  Cash licte.       57,177.00 57,177.00  57,177.00 44,827.00 67,677.00  86,147.00  8,972.00 103,710.00 306,29.00 106,000.00 117,510.00
Oerating Costs
Fertilues             1,050.0 5 15,50.00   3,450.00  2,310.00  2,00.00  3,30.00  3,00.00  5,280.00  5,720.00  4,10.00  t,000.00
Pusticsd                300.00    360.00  300.00   9*0.00    90.00   1,060.00   ,000  3            00  3,8e.00   1,800.00  2,280.00
lired  abwr   4/          0.00      000       0.00    975.0   2,600.00  12,075.00  12,075.00 22,01u o 23,400.00  23,40.00  24,375.00
Land Prepaation       6,000.0   6,000.00   ,000.00 _ 4,000.00  t,000.00   7,200.00  7,200.00  3,400.00  9,400.00   ,400.00   ,400.00
Total Operating Coats    8,010.00  3,030.00  3,030.00  10,245.00  12,200.00 24,255.00  24,585.00 37,315.00 39,320.00 39,70.00 41,05.00
lnotot Cast
Fare tools              000.00    000.00    00.00    600.00    000.00    000.00    040.00       00.1    t40.0       000.00    000.00
total Csts               0,10.0   8,410.00  6,30.00  1,0,65.00  12,300.00  24,155.00 25,185.00  36,415.00 39,920.0  40,300.00  42,255.00
lt Csh mcge             46,5.00  4,507.00  46,51.00  53,92.00  55,07.00   1,M.0  03,787.00 45,301.00 06,374.00  07,0.00  75,21.00
Net IlcUeuleern
faly lar  costi         59,940.0  59,O.00 59,940.O  65,355.00  6,450.0  72,920.0  75,41.0  77,15.00  76,2.00, 79,590.00 37,145.00
5,
Fauly Lao,w  Costs      39,000.00  39,000.00 39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.00 39,000.00  39,000.00
Not laegetbltu's to
Nh1a1e0ost              20,940.00  20,90.00  20,940.60  20,35.00  27,450.00  33,920.60  30,435-0  36,16.00 39,260.00  40,590.00 46,145.00
etwrn Per hRdy             399.0     M9.O    19.60    237.65    221.50    243.01    251.36    257.26    200.87   235.30    290.43
/1 Mos rWroeets '3,000  oe fanin isatI  project.   we tu fare sise is
are  ste is e3 ha.
21 WS Cropped in both had 3m weaum.
3/ Isume fly of '5.5 mitl Pr camto Cusct3Ol of *120 k/"yea,
shch  a  alued at "tsting ekrt price.
4/ Tractor.
5 Faily labor available during the crpino  seans is assoou *300
dayss skich as rwalue at &pited costs of Se.SIs. I330 per eel.



ANNEX 10-
-73                                       Table 2
1/
FLOOD IRRIBATION IFARN NODEL-21
(Values in sO.s1bs.)
Wlthout   Lith
Protect    Pro3ect
year    2/   Unit                        1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9      10-IS
Cropped Area
012112 Flooe lrrigtion  ha.         3.00        3.00      3.00        3.00      3.50       3.50       3.10       3.15       4.00       4.00       4.00
Hai                         1.50       2.50       1.50       1.50       2.00      2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00
Stiat                      1.00        1.00       1.00       1.00       2.00      1.00       2.20       1.25       1.50       1.50       1.50
Pulses                     0.50        0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50      0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50
Crop Yield       to./ba.
Nait                    1,250.00   1,250.00   1,250.00   1,300.00   1,350.00   1,520.00   1,525.00   1,525.00   t,525.00   1,650.00   1,7t0.00
Sesam                     400.00     400.00     400.00     420.00    425.00     500.00     500.00     522.00     522.00     530.00     550.00
'ulsas                   200.00     200.00      200.00    220.00     220.00     300.00     300.00     350.00     350.00     450.00     475.0
Gioss Production kg.
Nail                    1,875.00   1,875.00   1,675.00   1,950.00   2,700.00   3,040.00   3,050.0    3,050.00   3,050.00   3,300.00   3,520.00
sam                       400.00     400.00     400.00     420.00    425.00     500.00     600.0      652.50     783.00     795.00     925.00
Pulses                    100.00     100,00     200.00     220.00     210.00     250.00     250.00 I75.00        275.00     225.00     237.50
Value of Gross Proso.shlkq.
Naite           15.00  28,125.00  28,125.00  28,125.00  29,250.00  40,500.00  45,600.00  45,730.00  45,750.00  45,750.00  49,500.00  52,800.00
esaee          60.00  24,000.00  24,000.00  24,000.00  25,200.00  25,500.00  30,000.00  36,000.00  39,150.00  46,980.00  47,700.00  49,500.00
Pulses         32.00   3,200.00   3,200.00   3,200.00   3,520.00   3,520.00   4,900.00   4,800,00   5,600.00   5,600.00   7,200.00   7,600.00
Total value of Gross Prod 55,325.00  55,325.00  55,323.00  57,970,00  49,20.00  80,400.00  86,550.00   0,s500.00  98,330.00 204,400.00 109,900.00
Consumption            9,900.00   9,so0.o00   9,900.00   9,O0.00   9,900.00   9,900..00   9,900.00   9,9O.00  9,900.00   9,900.00   9,900.0
Setd                    2,473.00   1,473.00   1,473.00   1,473.00   2,729.00   1,729.00   1,831.00   2,856.50   1,984.00   1,984.00   1,984.00
sross Cash loco"         43,952.00  43,952.00  43,952.00  46,597.00  51,891.00  68,1.0   74,829.0   78,743.50  '6,446.00  92,516.00  98,026.00
operating Costs
Fertilizers                0.00       0.0o)      o.00     82.00   2,100.00   2,200.00   2,200.00   3,300.00   3,300.00   3,300.00   4,400.00
Pesticides               360.00      360.00     340.00     960.00    960.00   2,080.00   1,080.00   2,320.00   1,800.00   1,800.00   2,280.00
Hired Labour               0.00       0,00       0.00       0.00  10,075.00  10,725.00  16,445.00  17,225.00  21,225.00  21,125.00  22,125.00
Land Preparation       6,000.00   6,000.00   6,000.00   6,000.00   7,200.00   7,200.00   7,680.00   6,400.00  20,200.00  12,900.00  13,350.00
Total Operating Costs     6,360.00   6,340.00   6,360.00   7,785.00  19,335.00  21,205.00  27,405.00  30,245.00  36,425.00  39,125.00  42,155.00
Investunt Costs
Fafr Tools               600.00     600.00     600.00     400.00     600.00     600.00     600.00     600.00     600.00     600.00     600.00
Total Costs               6,960.0    6,960.00   6,960.00   8,38500  19,935.00  22,805.00  21,005.00  30,845.00  37,025.00  39,725.00  41,755.00
Not Cash Incoe           36,m.0   36,992.00  36,992.00  38,212.00  37,956.00  46,966.00  46,814.00  47,191.50  49,421.00  52,792.00  56,261.00
N1t Incooetbef4rs foaly
Labo  Costs)              4,U34.0   49,365.00  48,345.00  49,5.00  49,58.00  58,595.00  5,545.00  59,65.00  62,305.00  64,675.00  68,145.00
Fau ly Labour Costs       39,000.00  39,000.0   3,000,00  39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.00  39,000.0  39,000.00  39,000.00
Net Intoe IRetoarn to
anago mnt)                 9,365.00   9,345.00   9,3650.0   O,515.00  10,585.00  I9,5S5.00  19,545.00  20,65.00  22,305.00  25,675.00  29,145.00
Return Pcr lIndaM            161.22    121.22      161.22     165.28     165.28     295.32     195.15     298.85    204.35     215.58     227.15
lotesi_ 
1/ ModOl reprents '37,000 farm failies in the proJect.
Averago fare size is '3 ha.
21 Area cropped in both Gil and Doe seasoni.



-74-
A1NEX 10
RAINFED ARIA (FARN MOEL-3                   Table  3
(Values in So.Shs)
Without   With
Proeect   Project
Year    2/                            I        2         3         4         5         t        7                   9      10-19
tropped Area    Ulit
in 1IJ tainfid       ha          4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00     4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00
Swobhu                   4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00     4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00      4.00     4.0
PUlse                    4.00      4.00      4.00     4.00      4.00      4.00      4,00      4.00      4.00      4.00     4.00
Crop Yield     ig.lha.
Sorghua                550.00    550.00    550.00    575.00    600.00    t25.00    640.0    650.00     60.00    660.00    675.00
Puloses                150.00    150.00    150.00    200.00    200.00    250.00    250.00    250.00    260.00    260.00    270.00
Oross Production kg.
rwhuo                2,200.00  2,200.00  2,200.00  2,300.00  2,400.00  2,500.00  2,560.00  2,000.00  2,640.00  2,640.00  2,700.00
Polms                  000.00     00.00    600.00    900.00    800.00  1,000.00  l,O00.00   1,000.00  1,040.00  1,040.00  1,080.00
Value o4 crop Prodso.shs.
Suqrhm        13.00 28,600.00 28,600.00 28,600.00 29,900.00 31,200.00 32,500.00 33,280.00 33,800.00 34,320.00 34,320.00 35,100.00
Pul as        32.00 19,200.00 19,200.00  19,200.00 25,600.00 25,600.00 32,000.00 32,000.00 32,000.00 33,280.00 33,280.00 34,U50.0
Total Value of Bross Prod 47,800.00 41,800.00 41,800.00 55,500.00  56,500.00 64,500.00 65,280.00 05,800.00 67,600.00 67,600.00   ,660.00
Consuoption          9,590.00  8,550.00  9,580.00  8,580.00  8,590.0   8,580.00  8,580,00  9,580.00  9,580.00  8,580.00  8,580.00
Sd                   1,960.00  1,960.00   ,960.00  1,960.00  1,9600.0   1,960.00  1,960.00  1,960.00  1,960.00  1,960.00  1,960.00
Bross Cash Incote      37,260.00 37,260.00 37,260.00 44,960.00 46,260.00 53,960.00 54,740.00 55,260.00 57,060.00 57,060.00 59,120.00
Operatinl Costs
Fertilttrs
Pestictdis             240.00    240.00    240.00    240.00    2*0.00    240.00    240.00    240.00    240.00    240.00    480.00
irfed Labour             0.00      0.00     0.00  6,760.00  8,320.00  15,600.00 15,600.00  t5,600.00  15,600.00  15,600.00  15.600.00
andP 2reparation
total Optratu,q Costs    240.0     240.00    240.00  7,000.00  9,560.00 15,840.00  15,840.00  15,840.00 15,940.00  15,840.00  16,080.00
Investnent Costs
Fnrs tools             600.00    000.00    000.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    600.00    60000    600.00
lot. Ctots               840.00    840.00    94o.00  1,60o.00  9,160.00  16,440.00  t6,440.00 16,440.00 16,440.00  16,440.00  16,680.00
Iht Cash locoot        36.420.00 36,420.00 36,420.00 37,360.00 37,100.00 37,520.00 38,300.00 38,920.00 40,620.00 40,620.00 42,440.00
Net lIncoeolbf ore fasnly
l!eu  Costs)           46,960.0  46,9%0.00 46,960.00 47,900.00 47,640.00 48,060.00 48,840.00 49,360.00 51,160.00 51,160.00 52,90.00
Fagly Labour Costs     39,000.00 39,000.00 39,000.00 39,000.00 39,000.0  39,00.00  39,000.00  39,000.00 39,000.0  39,000.00 39,000.00
Not lacoiretwn to
M"amtl                  7,960.00  7,960.00  7,960.00  8,900.00  9,640.00  9,060.00  9,840.00 10,360.00 12,160.0  12,160.00  I3,980.00
Rern Pu Nanday            156.53    156.53    156.53    159.67    159.90    160.20    162.80    164.53    10.5    170.      176.0
Notess
1/ Model rertesents '110,000 fare fatslies in the project,
Average fars size is '4 ha.
21 Total surface area tropped In 6u and Our ssons.



ANNEX 11
-75-
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICIJL,TUJRAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1. Agricultural Extension and Training Project Proposals for National
Extension Program, Phase II - Somali. Democratic Republic Ministry of
Agriculture, June 1986, Volumes I and II.
2.  Somalia -- Agricultural Extension and Parm Management Project, a Review
ot the Extension Service Component fromn 1981-1985; ITAD - December
1985.
3.  Somalia - Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project,
Preparation Report, Technology assessment Study by A. Seager,
Consultant.
4. Somalia - Second Phase Agricuiltural Extension and Farm Management
and Training Project, Training Needs Assessment Study, Consultant iir.
N. Perumul, July 1986.



SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Organization of AFMET
of
Vice Wirister
of Agr-ictJtve
|Ge-tercd Mcroea  |
Techicd            Finr d
Mang              Controer
Proiect                   Tfield Exctension
Head Office                 TrairOng
I                  I~~~~~~~~~~ I
Asst Genrdl Manager            Director of            Asst Genierd Manager
(ServVCes)                 Trdiring                   (Extension)
I   I ~~~~~~~II
FMETC                I                 REO
ETCs                I
Ss                 FEA
Wcid Bv*--34K



4ux  v t 4 1
I   '48'
'PEOPLE S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
- 2-               */ DJ I BOUTI        I
3   j.>odo                                                                             | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL I, A
Li              /  >8la                                                                 Atado  Bososo          +
7  l                                          M         o    it          tt s J:.t., +
Mal't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
/~~~ ~~~~ 'Er  ,  0brt                           igovo              i \     <-        -
8BoroEa\.o'>>                 t      "       <A4        |     it t        1      1     SUC  l
Nal:jdid         i%I
TugWalo
Aburrin                                                                       Gard  -            I          '.B°der kbilo
SOMALIA                                   ,  x    ,AI'i 
SECOND AGRICULTURAL -*
EXTENSION PROJECT                                          -                               ,
Aira covered Only by Project 11 8'
Areas covered by Projects I and 11
i3    New Extension Training Center
Extension Iraining Centers
Form Monagement and Extension Troining Center
Research Stotions *                                                 A° A        /
Bituminous Surfaced Roads
Gravel/Eorth Surfaced Roads                                           /
N Notiorial Capitals
.±    Major Ports
+     Domestic Airports
I nternotional urports
'Distnct Boundonies                                        .{    ,/       --o 
Region Boundaries
- nternotonal Boundanes
Centrol Agncultural Research Station                                                           Ho,y,
"   ./<                  jeletwewl iolJ~~~~~ ij,f  j   jEl Bur       !
4.
40-
I'G  $i_ _n  s         A                                      ro0 so   100   150   200   250   300
KBlometers
s  bleira<l tj 1 >jole-s
8 . t . \>\B,, l~~~~OGADISHU *..w_
.  *>. V    s Gwiv'eS Merca                                                                               h h
<t  ...  ,  <_   _  .\"a¢ \  \ ,\, 'Sc lombot                                                                             vv>ror
\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,4 0O0O7 010,1 Bov
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0. 004 ,n0~' 10, 
fl Gellev > g- DJIBlOUTI- - 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0',00 70 do,0.004 
\   \   i!  ,Jamorr  0--  s-E T H I O0P I A   0
<kIb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 io.v o.os#*z 00*,1x fi 
010I000  ..oC00000
\ fJOOf  /                                                                    ~~~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~UGANDA     6
t  \lf  i>[                                                                  v  K E N Y A  I      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mogadishu
\Shide~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d' I#.00 .10.
z                                  .                                                       a         TAhZ ANIA .
MARCH 1987



