Document of
The Worid Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
iRepwt Ne. 8222-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
PQoR REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
JULY 9, 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients aoly in the perfonrance of
their officiai duties. Its content may net otherwise be disclosed without Worid Beuk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIYVtENTS
Currency Unit            -           Franc CFA (CFAF1
US$ 1                    -           CFAF 300
CFAF 1                   -           US$ 0.00333
CFAF 1,000               -           US$ 3.33
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYCiS
CCCE     - Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CEB      - Communauté Electrique du Bénin
CEET     - Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo
CIMAO    - Société des Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CTL      - Centrale Thermique de Lomé
EdF      - Electricité de France
ESIE     - Ecole Supérieure Interafricaine d'Electricité
MCT      - Ministère du Commerce et du Transport
MDR      - Ministère du Développement Rural
MEPT     - Ministè-e de l'Equipement et des Postes et Télécommunications
ODEF     - Office pour le Développement et d'Exploitation des Ressources
Forestières
OTÉ      - Office Togolais des Phosphates
SBEE     - Société Béninoise d'Electricité et d'Eau
SNI      - Société Nationale d'Investissement
SNS      - Société Nationale de Sidérurgie
STE      - Société Togolaise d'Entreposage
STS      - Société Togolaise de Sidérurgie
UNDP     - United Nations Development Program
UPDEA    - Union des Producteurs, Transporteurs et Distributeurs
d'Energie Electrique d'Afrique
VRA      - Volta River Authority
WAPSI      West Africa Power System Interconnection
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
One kilovolt (kV)                    -   1,000 Volts
One Megawatt (MW)                    -   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
One Gigawatt hour (GWh)              -   1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
One barrel (bbl)                     -   0.16 cubic meter
One ton of oil equivalent (toe)      -   about 7 bbl of crude oil
FISCAL YEARS
CEET        - October 1 to September 30 untïl FY88,
October 1, 1988 to December 31, 1989 for FY89,
January 1 to December 31 as of FY90
SBEE        - January 1 to December 31
CEB         - atnuary 1 to December 31
The Franc CFA is tied to the French France (FF) in the ratio of FF1 to CFAF
50. The French Franc is currently floating.



]FOR OFFICIALJ USE ONLY
TOGO
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pase Nos.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................         ......       iii
I.   THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS ........................    1
Energy Sector         .................................... .......  1
A.    Energy Resources  ................................    1
B.    Energy Supply and Consumption   .**          ...............    1
C.    Energy Sector Organization  ..            ....................    2
D.    Energy Policy and Pricing  ..................                 3
Power Sector  ...        .......................................    5
E.    Existing Power Supply Facilities  ..............              5
F.    Existin- Demand  . ............ ........... ........ .    7
G.    Forecast Demand  ...........  ................................    8
H.    Pover Strategy and Investment Planning            ...........    9
I.    Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for Involvement.   il
II.  THE BORROWER AND THE EXECUTING AGENCY ......... .......   12
A.    Lending Arrangements          ....................12
B.    Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo (CEET)                  12
-   Status and Organization ..12
-     Staffing  ............... ...........                 13
-     Financial and Operational Results ..........   14
-     Accounting and Audit Arrangements ..........   14
-     Insurance..... . ... . ........   14
III. THE PROJECT .....              .    .....................    15
A.    Background ........... .. ...............................    15
B.    Project Objectives  . .......................... ..          15
C.    Project Description  ..........  ..................    15
D.    Project Cost ... ............................ .. ...         16
E.    Project Financing ...............................    17
F.    Coordination with Co-Financiers                 .......    18
G.    Project Implementation ............... ..                      18
H.    Procurement ........................ ........    19
I.    Disbursements ....           ................... . ... ..... .    20
J.    Environmental Aspects           ..........................    21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
IV. FINACIAL,ANAYSIS ................... .*..... 4*    21
A.    Past Finances and Present Financial Position of CEET  21
B.    Billing and Collection  ..........................    23
C.    Tariffs  .................. .......  es ............   24
D.    Financing Plan ......  ............. ........ ....     25
E.    Future Finar.ces ..**.........................         27
V.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ... . .                ........    28
A.    Justification  ....... ........                        28
B.    Economic Rate of Retur.n                               28
C.    Risk   .......................                         29
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS ........................ , ....... .        29
ANNEXES
1-1      Energy Balance
1-2      Existing Power Facilities
1-3      Schematic Configuration of the Interconnected System
1-4      Electricity Supply and Sales
1-5      Load Forecast
1-6      Sector Investments FYs 90-95
2-1      CEET - Present Organization Chart
2-2      CEET - Target Organization Chart
3-1      Project Description
3-2      Project Cost
3-3      Financing Plan
3-4      Organization Chart for Project Management
3-5      Project Implementation Schedule
3-6      Disbursement Schedule
4-1      Income Statements FYs 78-89
4-2      Funds Flow Statements FYs 78-89
4-3      Balance Sheets FYs 78-89
4-4      Tariffs
4-5      Funds Flow Statements FYn  89-98
4-6      Income Statements FYs 89-98
4-7      Balance Sheets FYs 89-98
4-8      Assumptions
5-1      Economic Analysis
6-1      Documents Contained in the Project File
MAP      IBRD No. 22017



- iii -
TOGO
POWER RERABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrovers            Republic of Togo (GOT)
Beneficiar s         Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo <CEET)
Amounts               SDRs 11.4 million (US$15 million equivaient)
Terms:               Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Termes     GOT vill onlend to CEET US$ll.36 million equivalent of
the credit at 7.752 for 20 years including 5 years of
grace; CEET vill bear the foreign exchange risk. This
amount vill also refinance PPF Advances of US$1.5
million.  The remainder (about US$3.44 million) vw11 be
made available by GO? to CEEt in the form of an equity
contribution to financi technical assistance and
training.
Co-lenders:          CCCE (France) vould provide US$15.5 million
equivalent toward project costs.
Proiect              The proposed'project vills
Oblectives:
Ci)   support the $nstitutional strengthening of CEET,
iu particular of its management, planning,
engineering and financial operations; and
Cii)  help meet increased demand for electricity by
first rehabilitating and next extending the Lomé
distTibution system.
Prçject              The proposed project comprises the folloving elements:
Description:          (a) the rehabilitation and extension of the Lomé
distribution system, together vith related engineering
and other services; (b) technical assistance; and (c)
training.
Prolect Benefits:    The main benefits of the proposed project ares improved
reliability of pover supplies, increased capability to
meet the groving demand for electricity and improved
opefationa1 efficiency of CEET.  The estimated Internal
Economic Rate of Return is in,the 21Z to 33S range.
Proiect Risks:        There are no unusual risks associated vith the proposed
project.   Problems may arise from possible project
delays and from failure of CEET to achieve its plans for
improving efficiency. Given GOT and CEETs commitment
t.,l strengthening the power sector, these risks are
considered minimal.



- iv _
Estimated Costs
US$ Million Bauivalent'
Local     ForeiRn   Total
Generation Xehabilitation          0.12      1.06       1.25
Transmîeslop                       0.05      0.29       0.34
Distri, -tion                      Z.80     17.79      20.59
Studies                            0.49      1.93       2.42
Technical Assistance               0.05      0.91       0.96
Training                           0.36      0.83       1.19
Misc. Equipment                    0.00      1.20       1.20
Base Cost                          3.94     24.01      27.95
Contingencies: Phyoical            0.37      2.32       2.69
s Price              0.69      4.17       4.86
Total Project Cost                 5.00     30.50      35.50
Interest during construction                 3.00       3.00
:- -         -----     -----
Total financing required           5.00     33.50      38.50
Financing Plan:
-    Local     Foreign     Total
------ -USS Million) ------
IDA                                     0.0        15.0        15.0
Co-financiers (CCCE)                    0.0        15.5        15.5
CEET                                    5.0          3.0        8.0
Total                                   5.0        33.5        38.5
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY          90    91    92    93    94    95
Annual                        0.75  2.25  4.10  4.20  3.00  0.70
Cumulative                    0.75  3.00  7.10 11.30 14.30 15.00
Rate of Return:    21Z to 33X



TOGO
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
ENERGY SECTOR
A.   EnergY Resources
1.01      The  energy  resources  of  Togo  comprise  mainly  fuelwood  and
hydroelectric potential. There are no known deposits of coal. About 402 of
the country's  surface is covered by forest or wooded savannah.   The
commercial production of fuelwood could amount to some 4 million cubic meters
per year. Significant amounts of biomase are also available to substitute
for and complement fuelwood supplies.
1.02      Togo has a modest hydroelectric potential, estimated at about 600
MW. The Nangbeto hydroelectric plant (60 MW, 150 GWh) on the Mono River,
commissioned in late 1987, is the firet step in developing this potential.
Two sites farther downstream (Adjarala and TétUtou), with an estimated annual
output of over 350 GNh, have been identified and merit further study; the
feasibility study for Adjarala has just been completed and is presently under
review.
B. Energy Supp1ly and Consumption
1.03      Energy consumption in 1988 is estimated at 683 thousands toe or
about 204 kgoelcapita, which is among the lowest levels in the world. 0f
this total, 60Z consisted cf fuelwood and agriculture residues, 30S of
petroleum producte, eZ of charcoal and 42 of electricity. 111 petroleum
producta  and about half of the electricity consumption are  currently
imported.  Regional imbalances in the demand and supply of fuelwood have
developed and, in particular, the southern region has suffered serious
deforestation.  Annex 1-1 shows the overall energy balance for Togo, in 1988.
1.04      The sectoral breakdown of commercial energy consumption, excluding
fuelwood and charcoal which are wholly consumed by households, iL as followst
Consumption of Commercial Energy by Sector (in Z)
Sector   Petroleum Producta        Electricity     Total
Industry                57                58           57
Transport               36                 -           32
Household                 7               21            9
Commerce/Govt.            -               21            2
Total                  100               100          lo0



-2-
C.    -,rgy Sector Ortanization
1.05      Responsibilities in the energy sector are spread among varicus
agencies and are poorly defined, especially in the pover sector.   The
Ministère du Développement Rural (MDR) supervises the use of Togo's forest
resources through the Office pour le Développement et l'Exploitation des
Ressources Forestières (ODEF). In the hydrocarbons secter, responsibilities
are divided between the Ministère de l'Equipement, et des Postes et
Télécommunications (MEPT) and the Ministère du Commerce et du Transport
(MCT). The MEPT, through the Directeur Général des Mines et de la Géologie,
administers the concessions for exploration of oil and gas by the
international petroleum companies  (none are active at present).   MCT
supervises transportation, marketing and distribution of petroleum products
by five private oil coampanies. With a few exceptions, retail prices are
fixed by an interministerial committee upon recommendation of MCT.
1.06      The Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo (CEET) is by law (of 1963)
responsible for the generation, transmission mad distribution of electrical
energy in Togo. The original concept of the concession system is partially
preserved, especially in the dual Government supervisions the MEPT, through
the Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie (Dff) is in charge of
technical aspects; the Ministère des Sociétés d'Etat  ASE) takes care of
financial and administrative matters. The relations between the State and
CEET are not clearly spelled out. In practice, DHE claims a dominating role
in planning, project preparation and execution, thus reducing CEET to little
more than a Government department taking care of day-to-day operations.
1.07      Under the terns of a treaty between Togo and Bénin concluded in
1968, a large part of the responsibilities of the Government and CEET ver*
transferred to a new bi-national entity, the Communauté Electrîque du Bénin
(CEB).   Sinçe CEET?s statutes vere never modified to reflect the new
situation, the legal situation in Togo became even more complex.  On thé
positive side, it should be noted that the Treaty marked a significant step
in international cooperations   CEB is the first supra-national public
enterprise in Africa, and the Code Daho-Togolais de l'Electricité is the
first common electric utility legislation adopted by two independent African
states.  By Treaty provision, CEB has a dual mandates (i) it is a public
utility vith a monopoly of generation and transmission throughout Togo and
Bénin with the exception of facilities in service before 1968 and captive
plants of less than 100 kVA; (ii) it is a directorate or quasi-ministry to
which the governments of Togo and Bénin have delegated extensive regulatory
powers, specificallys (a) the regulation of generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity; (b) tariff fixing; (c) licensing captive plant
in excess of 100 kVA, (d) the conduc: of negotiations concerning
interconnection vith other countries; (e) planning and implementing
electrification in the two countries; and (f) operating a training center for
the benefit of the pover sectors in both countries.



1.08      CEB's organization ia three-tiered and comprises:
(i)       the *Haut Conseil Interétatique de la Comunauté'  (RCIC),
composed of elght members of ministerial rank, four from each
country, of whom two act as concurrent presidents; it meets
at least once a year to determine and monitor CEB's broad
policy;
(ii)      the 'Haute Autorité' (HA), composed of ten members, five fron
each country, nominated by the two Governments and appointed
by the HCIC; lt Ls equivalent to a Board of Directors and
establishes  the broad lines of action on technical and
commercial matters for the General Manager and oversees bis
management; it also proposes new investments, for rev.ew and
agreement by the HCIC; and
(iii)     the *Directeur Général' (General Manager), appointed by the
HCIC after nomination by the RA, who is responsible for the
day-to-day management of CEB.
To ensure optimal pover sector management and coordination ln Togo and Bénin,
the set-up described above has recently been reinforced by the creation of
a Permanent Coordinating Coumittee (PCC) of the General Managers of CEB, CEET
and the Société Béninoise d'Electricité et d'Eau (SBU) which meets regularly
to discuss policies and to prepare major proposals for joint submission to
the HA; it iL supported by working level committees for sector planning and
investment, operations, finance and training.
1.09      Dur±Dg the first twenty years of its existence, CE  haas conf--eJ-
'-te role to that of a wholesale supplier of electrilety te- the natioal power
entities in Togo (CEET) and in Bénin (SBEE). In the process, and vith strong
IbA support (see para. 1.26), CEB bas developed as a vell-managed utility
vhich, by being in charge of major power facilitise. bas assured the security
cf supply and relieved the veak national entities of responsibilities for
which they vould have been ill-equipped.  Even so, CEET, hamstrung as lt vas
by Government interference, did not succeed in effectively carrying out its
ovn mandate. Disputes wittk CEB concerning the split of responsibilities for
transmission by voltage leeel resulted in inefficient planning of
subtransmission lines, and distribution planning vas completely neglected.
The situation vas aggravated by a caretaker management devoid of auy
initiative which held office f rom 1985 to 1989. The appointment of a dynamic
new  general manager  in February  1989  paved  the way  to plan  CEET's
rehabilitation, vit!% emphasis on institutional reforms and rebuilding of the
Lamé distribution network.
D.   Energy Policy and Pricina
1.10      The Governmentes policy objectives for the energy sector are (i)
to reduce the cost of energy supplies to the economy through rehabilitation,
proper maintenance  of  installations  in  the  petroleum and electricity 
subsectors, and tbrougp regional cooperation; (ii) to evaluate and to develop
domestie energy resources; (iiL.) to promote more efficient ùtilization of
energy in all its forms and (iv) to promote accesa of the population to
!



- 4 -
energy throughout the`national territory. In the hydrocarbons sector, this
policy has been implemented successfully by the conversion of the tank farm
of a defunct refinery in a regional storage depot for West Africa, owned by
the Government company Société Togolaise d'Entreposage tSTE) and managed by
Shell-Togo.  This arrangement has much improved the efficiency of p-ocurement
of petroleum products. The strategy in the fields of pover generation and
transmission has been delegated to CEB.   From the beginning,  CEB has
recognized that the umall indigenous hydro resources of Togo and Bénin would
make the two countries strongly dependent on international cooperation.
Between 1973 and 1987, CEBEs only source of supply vas imported electricity
from the Volts River Authority (VRA) in Ghana. Diversification began vith
the commissioning of CEB's firet hydro power plant - Nangbeto - in 1987. The
utility pursues a flexible expansion strategyt while maintaining imports,
it explores the development of new hydro resources in Togo (downstream of
Nangbeto) and in BEnin, to have a viable alternative ready in case either the
quLntity available and/or the price of electricity from Ghana is no longer
attractive.    CEB's planning of high-voltage  transmi%sion lines,  while
oriented towards efficient wholesale supply to CEET and SBEE, serves at the
same time the objective of extending the interconnected system from the
coastal zone to the interior of Togo and Bénin.
1.11      The c.i.f. prices of petroleum products in Togo have been reduced
substantially since the establishment of STE. Retail prices have remained
high except for companies that are entitled to purchase their fuel tax-
exempt, such as the Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP). Government has
granted a similar exemption to CEET in 1984, subject to annual revision. The
company pays now CFAF 170/liter for gas oil and CFAF 90,000/ton for heavy
fuel oil. The electricity tariffs set in the mid-sixties remained unchanged
until 1981. Meanwhile, expeuses increased rapidly because of the high cost
-of supplying isolated centers from diesel units. Tariff increases in 1981,
1982 and 1983 were insufficient to overcome the sericus financial
difficulties of the national pover entity. In December 1983 the Volta River
Authority (VRA) of Ghana reduced the supply of electricity to Togo and Bénin
temporarily by 502 because of a severe drought.   Following this reduced
availability of imported - relatively cheap - electricity, tariffs vere again
increased by 2.4Z in 1984 to offset the much higher cost of thermal
generation.  Further adjustment of electricity tariffs vas agreed under the
Nangbeto Project (Credits 1507-BEN/1508-TO) which raised the average rate to
its present level of CFAP 55/kWh (USc 18/kWh). The adequacy of the current
tariffs is further discussed in paras. 4.04-4.08.



POVER SECTOR
E.   Existing Power SupPly pacilities
1.12      Until September 1987, about 90Z of electricity used in Togo and
BGnin and supplied by CEB originated from VRA. The corresponding service
area comprised the coastal interconnected system (see map IBRD 22017).
Isolated diesel plants service the central and northern areas of the two-
countries. In accordance vith a contract concluded in 1969 vith GOT and GOB,
VRA agrees to supply CEB, under normal operating and average hydrological
conditions, a maximum of 67 MW from its hydroelectric plants of Akosombo and
Kpong. Actual deliveries began in 1973. The contracted capacity is made
available 24 hours a day, but VRA has the right to interrupt service for
maintenance or other necessary vork. It should alec be noted that *force
majeure" includes drought, such as occurred in 1984. Although the VRA supply
to CEB le technically non-firm, the practical conditions of service have been
highly satisfactory except for the severe drought period noted above. CEB's
purchase price, subject to review every three years, is currently about USc
5/kVh. CEB's supply of electricity to CEET and SBEE is governed by contracts
first entered into in May 1973 and revised from time to time. At present,
the average selling price of CEB i  about CFAF 25/kWh (USc 8/kWh).  Since
1987, the Nangbeto hydro pover plant, owned and operated by CEP, has reduced
the dependence on VRA to about 65Z (or 350 GWh annually) of CEB's total
electricity demand.
1.13      CEET's owm generating capacity of 35.7 MW (Annex 1-2) comprises
two 8 MW diesel units in the interconnected system ("Lomé-Centrale") nd many
smaller units, totalling 19.7 MW, in the isolated centers. Tue Lamé-Centrale
plant (next tO the companysy  hesd office% serves as a standby facility.  The
CTe plant of 90 MW, located on the coast just East of Lomé, consiste of four
10 MW low-speed diesel unlts (designed to use heavy fuel oil) and two 25 MW
gas turbines.  The plant layout has provision for a future 28.7 MV steem unit
that vould operate on a combined cycle with the gas turbines.  The CTL plant
is operated by CEET, but owned by the Government. The plant vas conceived
in the late 1970's as a source of pover for the Société Nationale de
Sidérurgie (SNS), snd it vould use residual fuel oil from an adjacent new
refinery;   excess output vould be sold to CEB.   Noue of these plans
materializeds   SUS failed and the new refinery vas  shut down almost
immediately after completion. Moreover, CTL vas plagued by problems: a fire
in the control room in 1982 delayed commissioning of the diesel unit sand
subsequently these units suffered damage during the testing stage. The gas
turbines, despite a relatively small number of running hours, need a major
overhaul because< of soot deposits on the rotor blades.
1.14      Throughout this period of problems (1982-1988) with CTL, SNS and
the refinery, the Government took care of the CTL debt service through the
Société Nationale d'Investissement (SNI) while searching for ways to make
the best of past investments.  This effort resulted in the conversion of the
refinery tank farm to a regional depot (see para. 1.10) and the takeover of
SNS by a private operator vho established the Société Togolaise de Sidérurgie
(STS) and now operates a small rolling mill. The disposal of CTL assets was
more difficult becrnuse t-he capacity vas vell in excess of foreseeable needs
in the interconnected system, especially at the time when Nangbeto entered



-6_
into service.  On the other hand, costa of VRA iports (and hence purchames
f rom CES) vere ricing, while international fuel prices fell.  Prom an
economice standpoint, the CTL diesel units can nov generate encrgy at cotts
below the CEB price.  Nowever,  the substitltion of CTL energy for most of
CEB's deliveries vould force CEB to increase lt-a markup on the remaining
sales and thus raise the unit cost of CEB energy to both CEET and SBEE. If
carried too far, such a developuent could indeed endanger the viability of
CEB itself.   A compromise solution has been found vith the folloving
featurest ti) the Government vill transfer ownership of the four CTL diesel
units to CEET, which vill assume the correspondin- part of the debt service:
(ii) the tranaferred unita vill, for the time being, p.oduce about 7S GVh per
year for the CEET system; and (Iii) the Government vill retain ownership of
the gas turbines and keep them on standby under CEET responsibility for
operation.
1.15      The arrangement described above has been endorsed by IDA.  The
projected level of CTL diesel output is amall enough to have no major
negative effect on CEB'8 operations, it la large enough to allow CEET to
break even financially, provided that tihe heavy fuel is tax exempted. and in
the process the national treasury is relieved from part of the burden of the
CTL debt service. The conditions of the transfer have been defined during
negotiations.  The proposed Credit supports the deal also by financing the
cost of the gas turbine overhaul, a Credit component that vill be passed on
to CEET as a grant.
1.16      The existing transmission facilities fall in three categoriess
,i)  a bulk supply network owned by CEB and shoun on map IBRD 22017.
It comprises essentially the 161 kV lines Lomé-Home Hagou - Cotonou
and Nangbeto-Home ELZou for delivery of importe from Ghana and
generation from Nangbeto to CEET and SBEE.   The 161 kV line
Nangbeto- Atakpamé, built in anticiration of future extension of
CEB supply to central and northern Togo, is temporarily operated
at 20 kV.  CEB also cwns three short 63 kV lines radiating from the
Mome Hagou substation to supply OBEE at Lokossa, the Cimenterie de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CIMAO) at Tabligbo, and CEET at the toun of
Anfoin.   CIDAO  (which  is currently under liquidation) iL  a
wholesale customer of CEB, but CEET purchases some pover at the
Tabligbo substation. The OTP is a CEET customer, but CEB supplies
the plant directly from Home Hagou, for account of CEET.
(ii) CEET's transmission facilities in the interconnected system
comprisingt
-    18 km of 161 kV llmes connecting CTL to the CEB substation
Aflao in Lomé; and
-    about 150 km of 63 kV lines operating at 20 kV and 225 km of
20 kV lines to supply Tsevie, Ipalimé and four samller towvs;



-7-
(iii)  A secondary system in north-central Togo, operated by CEET.  The
backbone of this system is a 66 kV line, 76 km long, connecting
the main load centers Kara and Sokode.   The towvs of Kaboué,
Eassar, Tchamba and Sotouboua are supplied over 33 kV lines
totalling 164 km.
The  configuration  of  the  interconnected  system  is  shown
schematically on Annex 1-3. CEET's purchase points (from CEB) are located
at the CIMAO substation at Tabligbo (20 kV), Anfoin (20 kV), the OTP 63 kV
line terminal at Mome Hagou, the 20 kV line terminal at Atakpamé and finally
at the main CEB substation at Aflao near Lomé, where CEET purchases at 20 kV
(Lomé A substation) and at 161 kV for transmission to the CTL 161120 kV
stepdown substation and further distribution In the city via the Lamé L
substation. A third major substati,n, Lomé-Siège (located near CEET's head
office and the 16 MW Uiseel station in the center of the city) is connected
to Lomé A and Lomé B.
1.17      The CEET distribution network in Lomé consists of 300 km of 20 kV
lines, about 300 distribution subststions, of which half belong to primary
service customers, and about 900 km of low voltage lines. The distribution
system in Lomé, including the three principal substations, is in precarious
conditions mainly because of overloaded lines and transformers that vere not
designed to carry today's load. The quality of service is poor; operations
are plagued by excessive voltage drops, brownouts and blackouts, occasionel
fires in distribution substations and transformers, and high losses that have
reached 20 to 25Z of total supply. Rehabilitation measures vere formulated
in 1983 (vith IDA-financing), 1985 and 1986 (vith ESMAP support' but CEET did
not act until a new management took charge in 1989, which cleared the way for
preparption of the rehabilitation of the distribution system of Lamé and the
bulk supply substations under the proposed project.
F.   ExistinR Demand
1.18      Electricity service in Togo expanded at an extraordinary rate in
the first 15 years since independence. Initially, only the capital Lomé and
the coastal town of Aneho had a public supply. Today, all major centers of
the  country  are  electrified.    As  shown  on  map  IBRD  22017,  three
agglomerations can be distinguisheds
-    The Coastal Interconnected System serving Lamé and the smaller
toams in the surrounding area. The only town still isolated is
Notse;
-    The Kara System in the north central part of the country; and
-    Two isolated towns, Dapaong azid Mango in the extreme northwest.
The development of supply and sales since 1970 is shown in Annez 1-4, page
1. Growth until 1980, stimulated both by favorable economic developments,
and artificially low tariffe, averaged over 202 per year. The early 1980's
vere marred by a severe economic recesston, a regional drought (resulting
among others in curtailment of supply from Ghana) and three sharp increases



- 8 -
of electricity prices.  The sector stagnated until 1985, and ls nov in a
phase of slow recovery.  At the same time, overloading of existing networks
and poor customer management have caused losses to reach 26Z.
1.19      The distribution of 1989 sales by voltage level and major regions,
je shown in Annex 1-4, page 2. Medium-voltage sales (larger commerce and
industry) account for 522 of the national total, and for 55X in Lomé. The
low-voltage category is dominated by residential customers; amall consumers,
cottage industries and public lighting make up the rest. By the end of 1989,
CEET served about 49000 residential customers, of which 36000 in the Lomé
urban area. It is estimated that in Togo as a whole, only 11Z of householde
have access to electricity; in Lomé itself, the ratio la about 50Z. Annual
consumption per residential customer is about 2250 kWh in Lomé and, on
average, 1330 kWh in the rest of the country. The Coastal Interconnected
System, in which the project facilities to be financed are located, accounts
for 912 of CEET sales, 842 in Lomé itself and 72 in the surrounding towans.
Statistice on peak loade are erratic; the reported peak demand of the Coastal
System in 1989 vas 49 MW, implying a 68Z annual load factor, but the real
average load factor is estimated at 642.
G.   Forecast Demand
1.20      Demand to the year 2000 (Annex 1-5) has been projected by the major
service areas defined in para 1.18.  Sales and generation for the entire
country are used in the financial analysis of CEET's revenues and coste
(Annex 4). A subset of data for the Lomé urban area is used in the economic
analysis of the project (Annex 5).
1.21      Given its veight in total sales, the forecast for Lomé itself is
a key input.   The electrification of the city has remained way below
potential demand because of inefficient management of CEET and high
connection fees. Meanwhile, urban development continues and entire quarters
Of the city vith good quality housing for mixed social strata, potable vater,
infrastructure, echools, stores and vorkshops remains vithout electricity.
CEET has continued to connect customers at a rate of 2000 per year, but the
capacity of the network imposes increasing restrictions. It has also been
noted that the new customers, on average, are less vealthy and consume only
1500 kWh/year, compared to 2250 for the established clientele. This trend
vas  factored  into the forecast.    Surveys of the city by engineering
consultants indicate that vithin a short time, at least 15000 new customers
vould be connected at a rate of 5000 per year as of the end of 1991, thus
leaving sufficient time for technical preparations. After 1995, growth vould
continue at a rate of about 5Z per year. The resulting real grovth rate of
loy voltage energy use to 2000, is a prudent 42 per year, but improved
customer management and lose reduction vould increase revenues on average by
5.92 per year. Growth in the medium-voltage category is dependent on export
performance (notably of phosphate rock), output of the STS steel plant, the
success of the planned free export processing zone, and in general, on the
ongoing implementation of Togo's adjustment program.   Real energy use la
projected to rise by 3.2Z per year, and loss reduction would boost revenues
by 4.12.
1.22      Outside Lomé, the proportionately even larger unsatisfied demand
is expected to produce growth rates between 6 and 82 per year. By 1995, the



9-
Kara System le expected to be connected to either VYRA or to CEB's system, and
the resulting drop in generation cost should provide a new stimulus to
develop the local retail market. Similarly, in northwesturn Togo, Dapaong
and Mango are assumed to be supplied over an interconnection with VRA at that
time.
1.23      In sumary,  the demand between 1989 and 2000 Ls projected to
develip as follows:
Coastal Interconnected
City of Lomé             System          CE$T
Sales (GWh)
1989                   199                     214              236
2000                   375                     416               463
Growth rates (Z)              5.9                     6.2               6.3
Generation (GWh)
1989                                           294               321
2000                                           '489              547
Growth rates (Z)                                       4.7              5.0
Peak Load (MW)
1989                                            49
2000                                            96
Growth rates (Z)                                      6.3
H.   Pover Strategy and Investments Planning
1.24      Pover investment planning has fared rather poorly in the past in
Togo and Bénin. Instead of integrating their facilities and services, the
national entities tended to pursue independent policies vith respect to
sector organization, training, tariffs and planning.  Since 1985-86, this
tren has been reversed under the strong leadership of CEB. However, while
CEB concentrated naturally on its primary responsibility for bulk supply and
transmission, CEET and, to a lesser extent, SBEE neglected distribution
rehabilitation and extension.   As a result, the pover sectors in both
countries have developed in an unbalanced manner, vith development biased
tovards generation. It is nov realized that the return on past investment
in generating capacity, as vell as the overall future and soundness of CEB,
w'ill greatly depend on the health - particularly the financial health - of
the twv national companies, which in turn, vill depend on their ability to
market increasing quantities of electricity efficiently. The underinvestment
in subtransmission and distribution has become a potential constraint on
economic growth. As part of the medium-term strategy of GOT, improving the
sector's efficiency and delivery capability is nov of the highest priority.
1.25      Although no major generating facility would be needed before the
mid-1990's, 'some uncertainty persists because the long term contract CEB-VRA
expires in 1996, and the conditions of the expected reneval are still
unknown. CEB is pursuing the investigation of two hydro projectss Adjarala
on the Mono River downstream of Nangbeto at feasibility level, and Ketou on



- 10 -
the Ouémé River in Bénin at pre-feasibility level. Adjarala appears to be
marginally competitive vith new diesel generation; het-e the project la a
form of insurance against reduced quantities and further rises in the price
of VRA supplies as vell as against increases in international petroleum
prices.
An economically rational long-term expansion program for the pover sector of
Togo must be defined vithin an even vider framework of regional cooperation
involving not ouly Togo, Bénin and Ghana, but alo Nigeria and Côte d'Ivoire.
A -egional extra-high-voltage interconnection (330 kV) is being studied under
DANIDA financing vith the AfDB as executing agency. This West Africa Pover
System Interconnection (WAPSI) vould permit the exchange of gas-fired thermal
power in Nigeria and hydroelectric production in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana.
CEB is strategically well-placed to take advantage of these interchanges to
supply the smaller markets of Togo and Bénin.
1.26      Large differences in generating costs between the interconnected
system and isolated towns in the interior favor connection at the earliest
possible  date,  particularly  of the Kara  region.    The  feasibility of
connecting these load centers to the main grid by 161 kV lines is currently
being studied by CEB under a SPPF (SPPF G053-BENIG054-TO). The options ares
Mi) an east-west connection from Yendi in Ghana to Kara and Parakou, to
suppiy the northern regions of Togo and Bénin; and (ii) a north-south
connection Atakpamé-Kara entirely vithin Togo. The study vill be completed
towards mid-1990 and could thereafter lead to a specific project. Meanwhile,
CEET's isolated diesel stations are being overhauled, vith KfW financing
outside the proposed project.
1.27      In the distribution sector, CEET is giving priority to the Lamé
area, where poor service has the largest impact on economic performance of
the country, and where the establishment of a duty-free zone makes reliable
supply even more important.   Detailed technical desJgn is essentially
complete.   The rehabilitation and subsequent network extension vould be
accompanied by measures to improve billing, collection and customer
management in general.   Outside Lamé, CEET emphasizes connection to the
system wherever the load level makes it economical to do so. Since Togo has
a uniform national tariff, the interconnected regions subsidize the isolated
centers, where service is very expensive.  Investments in these areas are
expected to be limited to the strict minimum necessary for public service,
since each incremental kilowatthour must be sold at a loss.
1.28      During the period 1990-95, planned investment in the pover sector
of Togo texcluding CEB's portion allocated to Togo, that is generally
speaking, SOZ of its total investment) vould amount to about US$109 million
equivalent. Sector investment plans are summarized in the following table
and set out in detail in Annex 1-6. The $20 million (18Z) for CTL is the
estimated amount of debt principal that CEET vould take over from SNI in
exchange for  vwnership of the diesel units.   The proposed Togo Power
Rehabilitation and Extension Project vould represent 36Z. *Other investment
includes the Atakpamé-Kara 161 kV connection (subject to confirmation by
ongoing studies), subtransmission in various parts of the country and
miscellaneous items. About 40Z of this category is already financed by KfW.
The program reflects GOT's strategy to give priority to rehabilitation of
existing facilities and to develop access to electricity by new extensions.



- il -
During negotiations, agreement vas obtained f rom GOT and CEET to consult vith
IDA annually on CEET's lnvestment program and CEET agreed not to undertake
any new investments of US$1 million equivalent or more in the sector vithout
prior agreement of IDA.
Topo: CEET's Pover Sector Investment PYs 90-95
(la current prices)
CIAF      US$
million   million         Z
Generation (CTL transfer)                    6,000        20.0        18
Rehab/Extension Pover Project                11,550       38.5        36
Other investment                             15,088       50.3        46
Total                                        32,638      108.8        100
I.   Bank Group Strategsy and Rationale for Involvement
1.29      The Bank's involvement in the power sector in Togo dates back to
1978 when IDA acted as executing agency for a UNDP-financed power development
study. This study identified Nangbeto as the least-cost source of power to
be implemented as a regional project by both Togo and Bénin, and, therefore,
to be owned by CEE. Subsequently, in 1982, IDA financed detailed engineering
etudies for the Nangbeto dam, pover house, transmission and other associated
facilities. These studies served as the basis for appralsal of the project
ln 1983 and Board approval in -lune 1984. Total cost of the Nangbeto Project
was about US$130 million of which IDA contributed:US$30 million. The pover
station vas built vell vithin the budget.   A notevorthy feature of the
project is the achievement of all major provisions to protect the enviroument
and to resettle 10,000 people vith a minimum of social disruption.    The
objectives of the project vere to stabilize the cost of electricity supply
to Togo and Bénin while, at the sàme time, etrengthening the sector
institutions.   Some assistance vas provided to the national utilities,
particularly for training and data processing, but the in8titutiîoal priority
of the project vas to consolidate and strengthen CEB as a regional entity.
To this end, CEB received training, technical assistance as vell as equipment
needed to establish a central load dispatching system. Hovever, the national
utilities CEET and SBEE, being CEB's main source of revenue, need also
urgently attention. Key studies for their rehabilitation vere financed out
cf surplus funds in the Nangbeto Credits. A management change at CEET paved
t;ae way to utilize these studies and to formulate the proposed project. A
similar project is being prepared to assist SBEE in becoming a more efficient
utility.
1.30      Apart from the need to complete the binational snd national
institution building effort started vith Nangbeto. IDA's involvement in the
sector is an important support for the ongoing public enterprise reform
undertaken in the framevork of structural adjustment. Finally, continued IDA
support for the pover sectors of Togo and Bénin iL a key element in tie
strategy of promoting broader regional cooperation of the electric utilities
in West Africa.



- 12 -
II. THE BORRONER AND THE EXECUTING AGENCY
A.   Lending Arrangements
2.01      he Republic of Togo vill be the borrover of the proposed IDA
Credit. The beneficiary and executing agency vill be CEET. The Credit vill
be made available to CEET in accordance vith arrangc ants described in para.
3.08.
B.   Compagnie Energie Electrigue du Togo (CEET)
Status and Organization
2.02      CEET vas formed in 1963 as a limited liability company wholly owned
by GOT, with an option of up to 30Z private sector participation for which
no interest has emerged yet.   Its purpose is defined as the generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity in Togo.   CEET's Board of
Directors is chaired by a President who is General Manager of Société
Nationale d'Investissement (SNI).  The other Board members represent the
Ministers of Equipment, Economy and Finance, Planning, Interior, the Armed
Forces (two members), the Chamber of Commerce and CEET's staff. GOT also
appoints a special representative called Cohmmissaireu to attend all Board
meetings to ensure that the decisions taken are not contrary to national
government policy. CEET's present internal organization structure is shown
in Annex 2-1.
2.OS      So far, CEET has had difficulties functioning as an autonomous
utility. Its relations vith the Government are not vell defined, especially
in the areas of policy making, investment planning and tariff making.  The
existing lavs and decrees are obsolete and incomplete. Nevertheless, GOT has
tended to exercise rigid controls over the company as it does over other
state-owned enterprises. The main supervising agency, DRE, has neither the
staff nor the competence to exercise the mandate it claims, and thus it has
become an external cause of stagnation of CEET's development.
2.04      Until recently the internal management of CEET has been poor and
its quality of service has deteriorated, as reflected by increasing technical
and non-technical losses, increasing arrears and limited rehabilitation and
extension works. In early 1989, however, following the appointment of a new
dynamic and competent general manager, GOT requested IDA's assistance to
finance a Management Audit Study for CEET to define the veak areas in the
organization and make necessary recommendations for improvements. Under PPF
financing, a management consulting f irm vas retained and its main conclusions
and recommendations vere:
(il The relationship between CEET and GOT needs to be clarified vith
specific tasks and responsibilities assigned to each, through
adoption of new legal instruments  (Electricity  law,  company
statutes, performance contract, technical regulations);



_ 13 -
(ii) CEET organization needs reinforcement and strengthening, especially
in  the  area  of corporate  planning.    The  consultants  alo
recommended a manpower study which would def ine CEET's training and
technical assistance needs, and proposed a modified organization
chart for the company as shown in Annex 2-2;
(iii) CEET requires reinforcement of its internal controls through the
creation  of  a  management  information  system,  procurement
guidelines, stocks management system and an overhaul of the billing
system in order to better control custamers' accouats; and
(iv) CEET's personnel statute should be reformulated and adapted to the
need; of an industrial enterprise rather than tied to civil service
regulations.
2.05      GOT and CEET have accepted the recommendations of the consultants
which are being addressed under the proposed project. The most important
long-term measure to ensure adequate autonomy of the utility, i.e. revision
of CEET's statutes, should be implemented vithin the framework of new lava
governing the operation of public enterprises in Togo. This issue is being
addressed in the broader context of the country's structural adjustment
program currently underway and expected to be completed by end-1990. The
principles of reform vere outlined in a report to Government of May 1989
wthich recGmmends, among otherst  abolition of obsolete and inapplicable
existing laws and their replacement by a single statute for the para-public
sector; limitation of the Government role in personnel matters to enforcement
of the labour code and collectively negotiated agreements; re-establishment
of the legitimate role of the Board of Directors; and the exercise of a
posteriori control of Board actions by the Government. This vas agreed to
under SAC III. In anticipation of new legislation, these principles should
already be incorporated in the "Contrat Programme' (setting forth performance
targets for CEET through 1992 and providing incentives to CEET for
improvement in productivity) that GOT and CEET will establish as a condition
of the Credit. A draft, being prepared by consultants, should be ready by
September 1990. Concerning specifically CEET's future statutes, agreement
has been reached with GOT that it vill revise these statutes by July 1, 1991
to ensure their consistency with the new public enterprises legal framework.
2.06      Work has already started on the other critical aspects of reform,
covering  essentially  the  implementation  of  new  computerized  consumer
administration procedures, new stores management systems, computerized
mapping, both for technical and commercial purposes, and a new radio-
communications system. Work is also underway to reinforce CEET's planning
capabilities and to define the details of the new proposed organization
structure. CEET has prepared a timetable for the implementation of remaining
recommendations.
Staffing
2.07      At the end of 1989, CEET had a staff of 1,009, of which 31
professionals (including three expatriate advisers) and 150 techniciansl
supervisors. The number of professionals and supervisory staff is relatively
low, and several positions at the level of section or subsection head are



- 14 -
vacant. At the vorking level, on the contrary, there is excess staff, which
CEET is ia  the process of redressing by natural attrition while the
capabilities of the remaining personnel are being upgraded through in-house
training (especially on-the-job training and short courses amd seminars), as
vell as specialized training at CEB's training center.   Furthermore, to
assure an adequate supply of engineers, CEET has sent several students to the
five-year course at the Ecole Supérieure Interafricaine d'Electricité (ESIE)
in Abidjan.  The project vould contribute to the f inancing of CEET's traininB
efforts as defined by the maupover study referred to above in para. 2.04
<ii).   These measures to upgrade CEET's staff can succeed only if the
personnel statute is redrafted in conformity vith the requirements of a
commercially oriented state enterprise. Present cd'il service regulations
have produced demoralization of staff, chronic scarcity of competent higher
level professionals and high turnover vith los1 of the best people to the
private sector.   Recruitment is encumbered by heavy Government controls.
Reforms in this area are closely linked to the parapublic sector
rehabilitation programmed under the current SAL.   The specific changes
necessary vill be reflected in a new *Statut du Personnel' to be adopted by
July 1, 1991.
Financial and Operational Results
2.08      CEET's financial and operational results over the past decade are
reviewed in para. 4.01.
Accountinf and Audit Arrangements
2.09      Up to 1984, CEET's accounting system vas inadequate and defective,
impairing efficient financial management. Under the Nangbeto project (Credit
1508-TO), IDA financed auditors who undertook not only the audit of CEET's
accounts, but also provided recommendations to strengthen its accounting
systems and procedures. While substantial progress bas been achieved since
then, a sustained effort over several more years is required to establish a
wholly satisfactory accounting and financial reporting system. The proposed
project provides for the assistance required in that respect.   During
negotiations, agreement has been obtained from CEET to (i) have its accounts
audited by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, and (ii) submit to IDA
its audited accounts, and the auditors' report thereon, vithin four months
of its fiscal year-end.
Ânsurance
2.10      Present insurance arrangements for pover stations and associated
transmission and distribution facilities are satisfactory. CEET maintains
adequate comprehensive insurance coverage against risks -- civil liability,
fire, explosion and electrical faulte -- appropriate to pover utilities.
Also, vehicles are adequately insured.



- 15 ,
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Background
3.01      The proposed project is a logical follow-up of the Bank's past
involvement in the pover sectors of Togd and Bénin.  Under the Nangbeto
Project and its associated Engineering/Technical Assistance Credits,
preliminary studies of the Lomé distribution system and CEET's organization
vere undertaken which iudicated the pressing need to strengthen CEET and to
physically rehabil 'tate and extend Lomé's distribution system. These needs
were subsequantly confirmed by Bank missions that supervised the Nangbeto
Project, a Power Sector Report (Report No. 5049-TO), an Energy Assessment
Report (Report No. 5221-TO) and the Pover System Efficiency Study (Report
No. 077187).
B.   Pro3ect ObJectives
3.02      The proposed project aims at correcting the critical deficiencies
in the power sector bys (i) streamlining the relationship between CEET and
Government; (ii) reinforcing CEET's organization and effecting improvements
in all aspects of operations, including the introduction of a performance
contract with specific efficiency targets between CEET and GOT; (iii)
financing part of the investment program of the pover sector  for the period
1990-1994 including the rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension of the
distribution grid, as vell as the economically justified connection o' new
loads.
C.   Project Description
3.03      T.he proposed project consists of the folloving components which
are detailed in Annex 3-ls
(a)  an Institutional development program focussed on the strengthening
of CEET through: ti) a detailed study to define the relationship
and to streamline responsibilities of CEET and GOT; (ii) a
performance contract' between CEET and GOT to improve CEET's
efficiency as a pover utility, containing performance targets for
the period through 1992 and incentives for improved productivity;
(iii) a program of technical assistance snd staff training; (iv)
overhaul of the billing system and provision for new software for
better handling of customers accounts; (v) the development of
computer-based management inforziation and accouuting systems; and
(vi) studies for the future system requirements and a tariff study
to redress the present tariff structure (see paras. 4.04-4.08).



- 16 _-
(b) an Investment program comprising of part of the CEET investment
program through 1994 focussing on rehabilitatjon, reinforcement
snd  extension  of  the  distribution  facilities  in  the  Lomé
intercounected system, supply and installation of a supervisory
control system and a radio communications system, rehabilitation
of CTL gas turbines, acquisition of tools, materials, spare parts
and office equipment.
D.   Pro3ect Cost
3.04      The estimated cost of the project, including provision for physical
and price contingencies, but excluding interest during construction (IDC),
is US$35.5 million equivalent, as suimarized in the table below. The foreign
exchange component of US$30.5 million equivalent represents 86t of the
project cost. Full details of the project cost are given in Annex 3-2.
Summary Project Cost ai
Poreign    Total
USS$ Million Eguival. as Z of   as Z of
Local  Foreian  Total   Total      Base
Gen. Rehab.       0.19    1.06    1.25    85        4.5
Transm'.ssion     0.05    0.29    0.34    85       1.2
Distribution      2.80   17.79   20.59    86       73.7
Studies,incl.
Billing System
improvement      0.49    1.93    2.42    80       8.6
TIA               0.05    0.91    0.96    95       3.4
Training          0.36    0.83    1.19    70        4.3
Misc. Equipment   0.00    1.20    1.20   100        4.3
Total ease Cost   3.94   24.01   27.95    86       100
Contingenciess
Physical       0.37    2.32    2.69    86
Price          0.69    4.17    4.86    86
Project Cost      5.00   30.50   35.50=   86
IDC               0.00    3.00    3.00
Total             5.00   33.50   38.50
ai CEET is exempt from customs duties and taxes on equipment.



3.05      The project cost estimate îa based on mid-1989 prices.  Physical
contingencies of IOS and price contingencles, based on current inflation
trends of 7.2 Z in 1990 and 4.42 thereafter, were added.
E.   Prolect Financina
3.06      An IDA Credit of USel5 million equivalent toeGOT is proposed.  It
would finance about 43Z of the project cost excluding IDC (or 39Z of the
total coot including IDC). The Credit vill 1lo8 refinance PPF Advances of
US$1.5 million. Co-financing with CCCE of France has been arranged under
following terme: interest 52, maturity 20 years, including 4 years of grace.
The financing plan iL sumariied in the table below, with detalls set out in
Annex 3-3.
Project FinancLna Plan
Local      Forelen   Total
--       (US$ million)------
IDA                   0.00         15.00     15.00
CCCE                  0.00         15.50     15.50
rEET                  5.00          3.dO      8.00
Total                 5.00         33.50     3850
3.07      The proposed Credit vill finance IOOZ of the foreigu exchange costs
(excluding IDC) associated with the rehabîlitation of the CTL-gas turbines,
the rehabilitation atà,- extension of the Lomi distribution system, spare
parts, tools and vehicles; -the overhaul of the billing system, including
necessary computer softwarè; studies for procurement and stores' management,
institutional study snd preparation of a performance contract between CEET
and Government. a MIS system and studies of future system requirements. the
proposed project vill also  finance 1002 of the total cost for training
programs both local and overseas and technical;assistance, andtl100Z of the
foreign exchange compoaent of miscellaneous items including office equipment,
and radio telecowmmnications.   About 142 of the project coste  <fUS$5.0
million, excluding IDO) would be covered by CEET's internally generated
funds.
3.08      Of the IDA Credit, US$ll.56 million vill be olent by GOT to CEET
for 20 years, including 5 years of grace at 7.75Z.  CEET vill bear the
forelgn exchalge--risk on thil  amount.  The remaining amount of the Credit
(<ibout US$3.44 million) vill be passed to CEET as an equity contribution to
finance technical assistance, training and the rehabilitation of the CT! gas
turbines still owned by GOT. Signature of an onlending agreement between GOT
and CEET satisfactory to IDA is a condition cf Credit effectiveness..c
A~~                             ..



- 18'-.
P.   Coord  nat on vith Co-Financiers.
3.09      At the informal request of GOT,  IDA has taken the lead in
coordinating co-financing for the proposed project.  A staff member frou
CCCE's office in Lomé joined the post-appraisal mission, and all activities
concerning this project vere vell coordinated with CCCE in Paris.
Effectivenesa of CCCE Loan iL a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
IDA Credit.
G.   Prolect Implementation
Statue of Preparation and Execution
3.10      The proposed project vas prepared by CEET vith the assistance of
management consulting firme financed under the Nangbeto project (Credit 1508-
TO) and a PPF. In particular:
(a)  A diagnostic study to determine areas of veakness and to recommend
improvements of the institutional arrangement for the sector in
general, the relationship between CEET and GOT, CEET's organization
and other operational matters vas completed in August 1989.
(b) A system planning study for the rehabilitation, reinforcement and
extension of CEET's distribution system in Lomé through 1995 is
essentially complete.
(c) A study to determine the extent of vork needed and the
cost to oevebaul the Gas Turbines at CTL has been
completed by ABB (the manufacturer) under C.EET and DANIDA
financing.   CEET hAs agreed to retain an independent
consultant under temra and conditions satisfactory to IDA
to prepare detailed engineering and bid documents.
3.11      CEET vould implement all aspects of the proposed project vith
assistance from consultants.  It has engaZed international consultants to
prepare  detailed  ergineering    (through  bid evaluation  stage)  of  the
distribution components comprising the 'substations and netvork. CEET also
plans to use the same consultants to assist in construction supervision.
3.12      CEET vill establish a project management unit responsible for the
preparation of detailed system engineering and for the supervision of the
rehabilitation and extension of the distribution system.  The organization
of the project management unit is set out in Annex 3-4 and vill be headed by
the construction  manager from EdF, vho has been appointed as the project
engineer under CCCE financing. The construction manager vill be assisted by
a local counterpart.  The unit vill consist of CEET staff and expotriate
personnel from the Eng:.neer's offices. Upon completion of this projec., this
unit vill become the nucleus of CEET's future construction department.
3.13      The scope and terms of reference for studies, technical assistance
and training services under the proposed project vere agreed upon vith CEE?
prior te negotiations. Project completion is expected by June 30, 1994; an
implementation timetable is presented in Annex 3-5.



- 19 -
Monitorins and Reporting Repuirements
3.14      The Construction Manager vill be responsible for the physical
vorks. Monitoring of institutional performance vould involve the General
Manager and all Directors. A Corporate Planning unit is proposed under the
target organization of CEET to strengthen their capability in this area.
Overall coordination among the different contractors, vithin CEET departments
and with other agencies in Togo would be carried out by the Project
Management Unit. Quarterly progress reports vould be made by the project
unit to CEET's Board, IDA and CCCE. Detailed reporting requirements vere
discussed during appraisal; besides managerial and financial aspects, they
include progress on the physical vorks performance of the utility. An annual
review of the implementation of all aspects of the proposed proje.,t vould be
undertaken by CEET and IDA. During negotiations agreement has been obtained
that the Special Account (para. 3.18) and the SOE's vould be audited annually
by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA according to acceptable auditing
standards. The audited accounts and the auditor's report vould be submitted
to IDA vithin four months folloving the end of the fiscal year (para. 2.09).
SOE's vill be reviewed by IDA on a regular basis. All documents supporting
expenditures made under SOEs will be kept at the project site.   During
negotiations, agreement has also been obtained that at the end of the Credit
period, CEET vill prepare a Project Completion Report to be submitted to IDA
six months after the Credit closing date.
H.   Procurement
3.15      The procurement arrangements are summarized in the folloving table,
vhere figures in brackets represent proposed IDA financing:
Proeur _ ntrrans Fntn
muS mli lionc}
Proosira.nt U.*.hod
Prolect Cos»onu,t     IcDa  Otote  Total
Rcheb. CTL                   1.6                1.66
(1.88>            (1.88)
181 kV worke                         0.42      0.42
DlOtrib. ssèi'atTons
end Supervl.ory control            8.68       8.6 8
DistrIb. nteortk             7.48   12.82      20.25
(6.82)            (6.82)
Conmultancy *ervice«                 4.24      4.24
(2.49)    (2.49)
btarials à .qulp_nt          1.76    1.00      2.76
(1.75)   (1.00)    (2.76)
T«chntcal selleuno.                  l.15       1.16
(1.10)    (1.10)
Trolning                             1.4S       1.45
(1.01)  (1.01)
TOtAL            TÔMY    P4        -B-.O
(9.40)  (6.60)    (16.00)



- 20 -
3.16      The supply and erection of materials for the rehabilitation and
extension of the distribution systeit, including the 161 kV substation vork,
vill be procured in four separate contracte, vith single responsibility as
follovs:
(a)  The IDA financed lot in Lomé (US$ 7.43 million) vil' oe procured
through ICB, in accordance vith IDA guidelines.
(b)  The CCCE financed distribution lot in Lomé <US$ 12.82 million) vill
be procured folloving CCCE procurement procedures.
(c)  The CCCE financed substation in Lomé (US$ 2.60 million),  vill be
procured following CCCE procurement procedures; and
(d)  The CCCE  financed distribution dispatching  center  (US$ 0.76
million) vill be procured folloving CCCE procurement procedures.
3.17      The rehabilitation and overhaul of CTL gas turbines <2z25 MW) vill
be procured through ICB. IDA financed tools, telecommunications, office and
miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and spares needed to rebuild CEET's
inventory levels, vill be procured through a combination of ICB and
international shopping folloving the receipt of at least three quotations
from different geographical areas, as shovn in the table above.  Procurement
under international shopping vill be packaged in lots of under US$100,000 up
to an aggragate amount not exceeding US$1 million equivalent. Consultants
fl.l be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines and vould be employed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. All IDA financed contracts for
amounts of US$100,000 equivalent or more, will be subject to prior revieu;
other contracts vill be subject to selective post-award reviev.
I.   Disbursements
3.18      The proposed IDA Credit vould be disbursed as follova:
Dlmburseut CatsMorls of ItA Credit
(A.ount li US2 Mliliton)
X of Exponditur«
C!tMri                    Aounut    finmncsd by IDA
1.    norstson and dlutrlbution     S 90     100% of forelgn
âterlil mnd equlpont,                  *xpndlitures
lIcludlo lnsltllatlon
2.   Spere, tooi, equlpust and     2.10     100% of ftorlgn
vahicles                                expenditures
3.   Consult ntl' services          2.40    IOOX
4.   Tralinlng                      0.90      iOO0
6.  R.fundlog of project preprmton    1.50
edvmnce
6.   Uneolloc.ted                   2.20
I          ~~~~TOTA                  AC.



- 21 -
The proposed IDA Credit vould be disbursed by December 31, 1994, in
accordance vith the schedule shown in Annez 3-6. This schedule corresponds
closely to the former West Africa Region pover s-ctor investment profile
which is most applicable to this project.  It is proposed that a Special
Account of US$1.6 million equivalent be established in a commercial bank in
Togo and replenished periodically to finance eligible expenditures financed
by IDA. Disbursements of the IDA Credit vould be fully documented, except
for expenditures oE less than US$20,000 equivalent, vhich vill be disbursed
against Statements of Expenditures (SOE's).  All IDA expenditures of less
than US$20,000 equivalent vill be financed from the Special Account.
J.   Environmental Aspects
3.19      It  is unlikely  that  the project vill raise  any  significant
enviroumental issue.   This vould be confirmed by an Enviroumental Impact
Assessment (ZIA) being finalized by the design engineers. The submission of
a satisfactory RIA, and agreement on actions to be taken to protect the
enviroument during project implementation, is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Past Finances and Present Financial Position of CEET
4.01      Froa  FY78 to FY82, sales of electricity grew at an average rate
of 16.3Z annually, from FY82 to FY89 at an average rate of 2.2Z, and from
FY78 to FY89 at an overall average rate of 7.6Z.   CEET's sales in its
isolated load centers have grown even faster than these averages. But costs
In these centers have soared because pover is supplied by saill, expensive
to operate diesel plants.   This could,  in the long run,  threaten the
finan-ial viability of the entity as tarifîs are uniform throughout Togo.
CEET's Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements and Balance Sheets for FYs78
to 89 are given in Annexes 4-1 to 4-3 and are summarized, for FYs84 to 89,
in the following tables.
Peut ELamIna.. Flnancinp Performance and Ca.i"l*lzmtlon
(in CFAF Million)
Past Earnin .:
FP                       84      es     8^      87     88      59
Sales (GWh)              202    204    204    217    229    288
Tariff (CFAF/kWh)        44      49     67      se    S6       64
Tot l Revenus          10180  10744  12780  18218  18726  18917
Tota  Expenses,
Incl. Interest         9651  1066   11787  12141  12548  18226
Net Surplus              47U    -TM  sfs                     ffU 11
-       ===                    -      -
Operatlng Ratio (1)       89     89     90      90     97      s
Rate of Return on
Met Flxed Assete         1?      17      a       a      2      4
Average Collection
perlod in menthe         4.1   4.0    4.8    S.7    6.8    7.1



- 22-
In the table above, nY 89 covers a 15 monthe period, from October 1, 1988 to
December 31, 1989. Overall, and notwithstanding the slow growth of sales in
recent years, CEET's earnings have evolved satisfactorily, mainly thanks to
rate increases (251 in January 1984 and 15Z in July 1985) and efforts on the
part of CEET management to contain operating expenses. The drop in the rate
of return a- of FY86 is duc to the revaluation of assets lncorporated ln that
year's accounts. The worsening collection rate of receivables is mainly due
to central and local administrations having difficultles to meet their
obligations in a period of structural adjustment of Togo's economy.
Financing Performances
Period FYs 84-89
CFAF     Equivalent
Million  US$ Million    S
Capital Expenditure                        20041        67        68
Increase ir. Working Capital, incl. cash    9170       31         32
Total Requirements                         29211       98        100
m=n=n       mm
Internal Cash Generation                   16756        56        57
Borrovings                                    (1)        -         -
Equity                                     11325        38        39
Consumers Contributions                     1131         4         4
Total Sources of Funde                     29211        98       100
nn           nc       -
The apparently favorable internal cash generation ratio of 57Z understates
CEET's contribution to investment. About CFAF 10 billion (US$33 million)
lncluded in both capital expenditure and equity results from the revaluation
of assets in FY86. On a true cash basis, internally 8enerated funds financed
over 85Z of new investments plus increases  in vorking capital.   The
relatively low level of investments allowed CEET not to resort to any new
borrowings. On the other hand, an increasing share of cash resources had to
finance the rapidly mounting arrears of the public sector.



- 23 -
Capitalization as of end FY89s
CFAF     Equivalent
Million  US$ Million    2
Net Fixed Assets in Operation              15700        49        57
-Work in Progress                            4200       13        15
19900       62        72
Current Assets                             13570        42        48
legs Current Liabilities                    5500        17        20
807b       2S5       28
Net Assets                                 27970        87       100
Represented bys
Equity                                     22470        70        80
Long Term Debt                              1400         4         5
Consumera Contributions                     4100        13        15
Total                                      27970        87       100
«=-
Debt Setvice Coverage                         33
DebtlEquity Ratio                           6:94
Current Ratio                                2.5
CEET's capitalization as of end FY89 was satisfactory vith a healthy cash
position, an adequate current ratio and an excellent debt service coverage.
Its low debtlequity ratio provides good leverage for new borrowing. Hovever,
nearly 70Z of current assets consist of accounts recelvable, mainly from
public sector agencies, for which delays in collection may be expected.
During negotiations, agreement has been reached with GOT on the issue of
these outstanding arrears as explained in the following paragraphs.
B.   Billina and Collection
4.02      CEETIs billings are monthly and receivables as of end pY89
represented about nine monthe' revenues, mostly from government and state
enterprises. The performance in the settlement of bills by goverument and
public entities to CEET thus needs to be improved.  Durilag negotiations,
therefore,  GOT has  agreed  to adopt  by  January  15,  1991  a  schedule
satisfactory to IDA to reduce the level of arrears in public sector
receivables to no more than the equivalent of three months' billings.
Furthermore, GOT has agreed at negotiations that (i) the annual budgets of
goverument departments and public entities include sufficient provision to
co'er the cost of their annuel consumption cf electricity, anid (ii) all
future electricity bille are paid withim three months from presentation.



- 24 -
4.03      While its present position of receivables from private customers
is satisfactory, CEET has agreed at negotiations (i) to ensure that credit
to its private customers vill not exceed three months' billings, and (il) to
settle CEB's bills vithin a maximum of three months from presentation.
C.   Tariffs
Present Arrangements
4.04      About 90S of total electricity demand in Togo le met by CEB's
imports from Ghana (VRA) and supplemented, since late 1987, by CEB's own
generation at the Nangbeto plant. The CEB-VRA supply contract reflects the
cost structure of hydro pover, characterized by high fixed charges and a low
incremental cost. CEB's present average purchase price is about USc 51kWh
and its average rate to CEET (and SBEE) iB about CFAF 251kWh, equivalent to
USc 8/kWh.
4.05      The historical low cost of electricity purchases from CEB (about
USc 21kWh) has resulted in lcv tariffs to consumers in Togo and BEénin;
between 1967 and 1981 CEET tariffs remained unchanged.  Originally based on
the cost of diesel generation, the 1967 tariff levels vere sufficient to
cover the low cost of imports from VRA and expensive thermal supply to the
isolated load centers for a number of years.   Eventually, however, the
financial situation of CEET deteriorated to the point where tariff increases
became overdue. As a consequence, rates vere increased in March 1981 (by 502
for low voltage and by 100Z for medium voltage service) and again in April
1983 (by an average 202). Follovîng the reduction in December 1983 of VRA
supplies to CEB, CEET vas forced to generate more electricity from its diesel
plants. To compensate for the higher fuel costs involved, GOT allowed new
rate increases: 25Z in January 1984 and a further 152 in July 1985. This
brought the average tariff level to about CFA? 57/kWh (USc 18ikVh
equivalent). It has remained constant since 1985. Full details of CEET's
tariff are set out in Annex 4-4.
Tariff Studies
4.06      CEET's original tariff structure vas set in the mid-sixties.  The
lov-voltage tarif f, vith flat or almost flat rates, provided no incentive for
its customers to save energy at peak time. In the medium-voltage category,
both a low demand charge and a uniform energy charge did not encourage
efficient use of electricity. Togo has always applied a uniform national
tariff as a matter of policy. Siace supply to the coastal interconnected
region is significantly cheaper than supply in the interior (by amall
isolated diesels), there is a de facto cross-subsidization from the about 902
interconnected demand to the remaining 10Z inland load centers demand.
4.07      The Pover Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Credits
1189-BEN/l190-TO) made provision for the review of CEET's tariff; the study,
completed in June 1983, confirmed the inadequacies of both the tariff
structure and levels then in existence. It recommended a tariff structure
based on marginal costs while maintaining uniformity of tariffs throughout
Togo. The recommendations vere essentially implemented and lead to the rate
increases referred to in para. 4.05 above.  Under the Nangbeto Project



- 25 -
(Credits 1507-BEN/1508-TO)  an update of the tariff study, completed in
February 1988, essentially recommended a few adjustments to the tariff
structure as proposed in the original study.
Future Tariffs
4.08      CEET's tariff structure vill be reviewed, taking into account the
recommendations of the tariff studies, during the implementation of the new
customer administration system. Tariff levels, on the other hand, must be
determined in accordance vith CEET's financial requirements as set out in the
IDA-CEET Project Agreement (Credit 1508-TO, Nangbeto)s the Agreement provides
essentially that the rates be adequate to meet a Net Internal Cash Generation
(NICG) goal of 45Z.  It vas also agreed that during the Nangbeto Project
inplementation, CEET, in consultation vith IDA, vould set an appropriate rate
of return target, based on net average fixed assets in operation ( at current
value) In substitution for the above cash generation target. On the basis
of these decisions, agreement has been obtained at negotiations that GOT
vould authorize CEET, and CEE7 vould adjust its tariff levels, as and when
required, to produce a rate of return of at least 3.51 in FY90, 42 in FYs91
and 92, and 62 as of FY93. These relatively low levels are justified by the
burden represented by the transfer of CTL to CEET.   According to the
financial forecasts (as outlined in para. 4.11), this vould translate in a
more or lesa constant average nominal tariff level during the period of the
project. This is important in light of the need to reduce domestic costs in
order to improve the country's international competitivenese in the absence
of an exchange rate adjustment.
D.   Financing Plan
4.09      CEET's estimated investment requirements and sources of funde
through FY95, roughly the period covered by the proposed project, are
summarized below, vith details given in the Funds Flow Statements in Annex
4-5.   It should be noted that the investment plan, including the present
composition listed in Anmex 1-5 vill be subject to periodic review vith IDA
as a condition of the Credit.



- 26 _
CEET's Financini Plan (FYs99O95)
CFAF      US$
Billion  Million   Z
Requirements:
RehabilitationfExtension Project          11.6        39   36
CTL transfer                               6.0        20   18
Other projects                            15.0        50   46
Total Capital Exp. incl. IDC              32.6       109  100
Financed bys
Internal Cash Generation                  30.2       100   91
less Working Capital ai                   (6.1)      (20) (18)
les8  Debt Service                       (10.2)      (34) <31)
CEET'3 Contribution to Investment b/      13.9        46   42
Proposed IDA Credit                        4.5        15   14
CTL debt                                   S.0        20   18
Other Borrowings                          10.5        35   32
Total Borrovinge                          21.0        70   64
Equity Contribution                       (4.3)      (14) (12)
Consumers Contributions                     2.0        7    6
Total Capital Sources                     18.7        63   58
Total Financing                           32.6       109  100
ai including variation ln cash
bl excluding variation in cash, the contribution to investment would be 50Z
The table above includes the transfer of CTL's diesel units, valued at CFAF
6 billion (US$20 million equivalent), together w$th the corresponding debt.
This is an estimated amouat; during negotiations, agreement has been reached
with GOT on a fair assessment of CTL's assets before their partial transfer
to CEET.   Purthermore, it was agreed that improved terme and conditions
(possibly including a complete write-off) gained from a possible future
renegotiation of CTL's comuercial debt would be passed on to CEET.
4.10      For the proposed project, GOT will be the borrower of the IDA
Credit of US$15 million. An additional US$15 million of the proposed project
would be financed by CCCE. Further borrowings of US$20 million would be



- 27 -
needed for CEET to f inance the balance of its investment program.   CEET
should not encounter major difficulties in raising these funds, especially
since a significant part thereof is already committed by R£W.   CEET's
internal cash generation would provide about US$46 million or 422 of
requirements; this vould be satisfactory.
E.   Future Finances
4.11      With the above measures, CEET would show an improving financial
position and performance during the period FYs90 to 95. To protect CEET's
future financial viability, a debt limitation covenant has been agreed upon
at negotiations whereby CEET would not incur new debt vithout consulting IDA
unless its expected future internal cash generation is at least 1.5 times
future debt service, including that of the proposed borrovinga.   CEET's
forecast Income Statements and Balance Sheets for FYs90 to 95 are given In
Annexes 4-6 and 4-7 vith the assumptions used given in Annex 4-8. Salient
aspects of CEET's future finances in tliis period are as follovws
Salient Aspects of Future Finances of CEET (FYs90-95)
(in CFAF billion, unless stated othervise)
90    91    92    93    94    95
Sales, in GWh              245   256   274   298   324   353
Tariff, in CFAPIkWh         56    57    58    58    58    58
Operating revenues         16.4  17.4  19.1  20.9  22.5  23.1
Operating expenses         16.1  17.2  18.9  20.5  21.9  22.4
Net income                  0.3   0.2   0.2   0.4   0.6   0.7
Operating income            0.7   0.9   1.0   1.5   1.7   1.8
Operating ratio             96    94    94    92    92    92
DebtJEquity ratio          32s68 38s62 43t57 46s54 46:54 45:55
Debt service coverage       4.8   3.3   3.1   3.0   2.5   2.5
Current ratio               2.3   3.2   3.8   4.3   4.5   4.6
CI ai                       96    19    31    47    41    50
RoR bl                      3.5   4.2   4.3   6.0   6.7   7.1
a/   The Contribution to Investment (CI), including variation In cash, i9
computed on a three-year average basis.
b/   The Rate of Return (RoR) is computed ou currently valued average  net
fixed assets in operation.



- 28 -
The assumptions used concerning both the growth of sales and the graduai
reduction of technical and non-technical losses are conservative.   Should
actual performance of CEET in that respect be better than a3sumed, even the
minor average rate increases envisaged could be avoided; the tariff would
thus remain constant,  i. e. decreasing in real terme.   The other key
indicators - operating ratio, debt/equity ratio, debt service coverage and
current ratio - are all satisfactory. CEET's contribution to investment,
including variation in cash, would be about 42Z on average for the period
ui,der consideration, which is adequate; excluding variation in cash, the
contribution would be around SOZ, which is satisfactory. The rate of return
as computed above shows steady improvement from 3.5Z to 7.1S over the period
covered by the analysis.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.   Justification
5.01      The performance of the subtransmisaion and distribution system in
Lomé has deteriorated in recent years as a consequence of overloading and
poor structuring of the distribution network and because of old and
inefficient equipment at the substations. Although there is adequate supply
of electricity available from CEB, and as standby capacity from CEET, pover
supply to consumers is often lnterrupted because of breakdowns in the
subtransmission and distribution networks. Furthermore, less than half the
population in Lomé has accees to electricity. The proposed project is
essential to provide better value for money to existing customers, to.
compensate for the past under-investient in the distribution network to meet
the demand of new customers,  and to improve the utilization of sunk
investments in hitherto idle capacity.
An adequate and reliable supply of electricity is essential to the
economic recovery of Togo and vithout the proposed project, that recovery
could be seriously jeopardized.
B.   Economic Rate of Return (Annex 5-1)
5.02      The main direct benefits of the proposed project are the increased
reliability of electricity service to the public, reinforcement of
infrastructure to meet growing demand for electric power, and improved
operational efficiency of CEET.  The costs and benefits are measured by
comparing the power operations irn Loué vithout and with the project.  It is
estimated that vithout the project CEET could continue for at most three more
years to increase low-voltage service by connaecting 2000 customers per year,
while accomodating medium-voltage load growth at a rate of 3.2Z per year;
losses would rem2in at least at the present level of 26Z. With the project,
extension of low voltage service would accelerate, and both commercial and
technical losses would drop gradually, from 26Z today to 152 in 1996. The
sales and generation levels are kept constant after 1995, this being the
first year of full operation of the new facilities.  The benefits of the
project are certainly not exhausted in 1995, but there will also be
additional coste that cannot yet be reliably estimated.



-29-
5.03      The economic evaluation of the investment costs does not take into
account the change of ownership of the CTL diesel units since this is a
transfer vithin the Togolese economy. Rovever, there is an economic effect
on generation costs since in the "With the Project" case, 75 GWh of CTL
production (valued at US cts SlkWh) in substituted for purchases from CEB (at
8 US cts./kWh). On the other hand. there may be an indirect loss to Togo as
co-owner of CEB, but this element le difficult to quantify over time. The
uncertainty is taken into account by computing the rate of return vith and
vithout the direct savings of generation coste arisLng from CTL operations.
The incremental sales are valued by consumers' villingness to pay,
conservatively taken to be the actual tariff of about 18.3 US ctslkMh. The
resulting Internal Economic Rate of Return tIERR) in the 21-332 range is well
in excess of the economic opportunity cost of capital in Togo (about 102),
and thus confirms that the proposed project is economically justified.
5.04      A  least-cost distribution development and expansion plan vas
prepared by a reputable firm of consultants.   The forecaat of the pover
market is realistic, maximum use is envisaged of the existing assets and the
design of the distribution expansion uses the most advanced concepts
concerning planning and choice of techniques.   A notable featire le the
preparation of a complete cadastre of the city of Lomé, which vill help
further customer management and also benefit other urban infrastructure
developments.
5.05      The IERR is believed to be conservatively estimated.  First, the
underlying load growth with the project (4Z in terme of real consumption, 62
in terms of revenue) is considered prudent. Second, no account is taken of
the consumer surplus arising from consumers' willingness to pay over and
above CEET's current average tariff. Third, no quantitative allovance has
been made for the substantial external economic benefits to be derived from
urban electrification, and specifically of its positive effects on small
enterprises (including those led by vomen) and on urban employment.
C.    Risk
5.06      The principal riske associated vith the proposed project relate to
possible project delays and to the achievement by CEET of its plans to
improve efficiency. Hovever, CEET and GOT are fully comnitted to
strengthening the pover sector. Furthermore, CEET's management is keenly
avare of the need to re-establish the credibility of CEET in the eyes of the
public.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached durins Nepotiations
6.01      During negotiations, the following agreements have been reacheds
(a) GOT will undertalte the fair valuation and the transfer to CEET
of the CTL diesel plant, together with the related debt
service (paras. 1.15 and 4.09);



- 30 -
(b)  GOT and CEET vill consult annually vith IDA on CEET's
investment plan and seek IDA approval of any proposed
investment estimated to cost more than US$1 million equivalent
(para. 1,28);
(c) GOT vill enter into a performance contract vith CEET
matisfactory to IDA (para. 2.05);
(d) GOT vill revise CEET's statutes (para. 2.05>)
(e)  CEET vill adopt staff rules and regulations satisfactory to
IDA (para. 2.07);
(f> CEET vill have its accounts audited and submit the auditors'
report vithin four months cf fiscal year-end (para. 2.09);
Cg) CEET vill have the Special Accouat and the SOEs audited. and
subnit a PCR (para. 3.14);
(h)  GOT vill reduce the level of arrears  in publie sector
receivables according to a schedule satisfactory to IDA (para.
4.02);
(i) GOT vill ensure that the annual budgets of goverrment
departments and public entities vill include sufficient
provision to cover the cost of their electricity consumption,
and that all future bills vill be paid within three monthe
from presentation (para. 4.02);
(j) CEET vill ensure thac credit to its private customers vill not
exceed three months' billings, and settle CEB's bills vithin
three months from presentation (para. 4.03);
(k) CEET vill achieve the folloving minimum rate of return: 3.52
in 90, 42 in 91 and 92, and 62 thereafter (para. 4.08); and
tl) CEET vill adhere to a debt limitation covenant of 1.5 minimum
(para. 4.11).
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
6.02      The folloving are the conditions of Credit effectivenesss
(a) execution of an onlending agreement between GOT and CEET
satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.08);
(b)  effectiveness of CCCE Loan (para. 3.09);



(c) presentat1%mn of a satiseactory enviromasntal Impact asessmmnt
and  agreement  on  actions  to be  taken  to protect the
envtromueat during project fmplemutation (para.3.19)1
Recomiendation
6.03      Based on the above agreements, the proposed project te suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDR Il.4 million (US$15 million equivalent).
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



'- 32  - 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 33 -
x                                ~~~~~~~~~~Annex 1-1
TC60
POiWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Eneri, Balanées (1988)
(Thousands of toe)
Primary Energy           Energy Producte             Total
Fuelwood Agricultural Charcoal Petroleum Electricity
Residues               Products
Gross SUDp1  .
Domestic Prod.    431         52          -           -          15       498
Importe              -         -          -        254           15       269
less Exporte         -         -          -         (42)          -       (42)
Subtotal           431        52          -         212          30       725
Supply Conversion <68)         -         68          (6)          6         -
Losses                                  535)          -           (7)     (42)
Net supply for
end use    363         52        33         206           29      683
Coneumptions
Households         343        50         33          15           7       448
transport            -         -          -          74           -        74
CommercelGoIvt.     20         -          -           -           6        26
Industry             -         2          -        117           16       135
Total              363        52         33        206           29       683
toanexil



-34-
'1000                       ANiEX 1-2
P118El htEtAIUTAUCH» AIS EXTENIONCI POCT
EXIST2N0 POIR FACITS
PlBnl                  Uanit/C.p.lty   Type - ;ake    4p*rtino        Yar ln
_a P`t. (1(W                 CpaclOy(KW)    servies
A- Le, btercoçnnetd Sy98e
1- HangbOe                       2 X 81.6        Hydre               WOOO /1      1987
2-LOI il 11                      2   Sm            - Sulsor          140           1901
1 X K40        D - CuIns                         1981
8- CL                            2 X tCO         G- ABs              Som00         1979
4 X 10         0 - au              SOO           1982
1 X 600        O - Jenbch                        1978
4- Kpal lm                       2 s 800         Hydre                1400         1968
6Atalkp                          1  X UO         D - Cumins            448         1981
' xIO          O-MGO                 450         1959
1X690          OD - MO               4S0         1961
Subtet.I Le.                                                        112748
B   eIs.ted Synt_                                                                                             s
1- mot" b2 X 180                                 0 - 8erlIit           212        1978
2 X t2          O - ett              168         19m
: : nl         0 - Briet              64         1978
2- Sot.ubeub                     2 X 72            - Baudouin          lis        1s9s
2 X 1u0        D - nells-Roye        212         1P7
8- $*Oe"                           X 640         D - Cumins            898         1981
4- asr                           a X lO          O - Roll- eRoye      8a8i         1977
2X220          0 - Ceterpillur       aie         1974
6- bra                             K X700        D - Chantier Atl.   awo          1967
1 X 402C       0 - Chantler Atl.   8600          1968
1 X C40        0 - Ca ln.            448         1981
1 X IIOO       0 - D utA            18C0         19m
1 X 1600       D - Dot               l80         198
0- Mnge                          2 X 444         D - Couins            860         1984
1 X 100           - sene              80         1984
7- Oapsem                        2 X 540         D - Coaline           e9u        1981
8- lobil Unlte                   2 X "O          D - Cumins           1000         1987
Subtotil Isoleted Syetima                                            14876
MTAL TM0O                                                           127424
/1  #ragbet hydre lectlrc plant la Jolntly  oed by Togpend S nl. ther.fole
enly blaif It  es<paoty la ao.lded4 for Toge                   (SRUIIxt.a        90)



35
TOGO                          AJNNEX 1-3
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SCHEMATIC CONFIGURATION OF THE INTERCONNECTED SYSTEN
NANGBETO
(Future)                                       -B
I ATAKPAME [                                  - 
f      (operated at 20 kV)
CEET    CEB
161 kV
20 kV
CEET       SUBSTATION
TABLIGBO
CEB
CINAO
(CEB)    63 kV
- .
161 kV                                   SUBSTATION          161 kV
NOME RAGOU         TO BENIt
161 kV (CEET)
VRA            I63 k
161 kV SUBSTATION                                                r      63 kV
APIAO (CEB)OT
OTP
(CEET)
20 kV
SUBSTATION                                               SuEBsTATION    CEB
LOME A (CEEr                                              ANFOIN        CEET
20kV
SUBSTATION                s
LOME-SIEGE             IOME B(CE'
LONE-CENTRALE                               STS



- 36 -
TOGO                             ANNEX 1-4
Page ; of i
POWER REMABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
1. Generation, Sales and Losses
____________________________
Purchases        Total
Year         Generation        CEB            Supply   Sales     Losses
---   ----------  ---------     ----   -           -----
GWh            GWh             GWh     GWh     Z of Supply
(1)              (2)            (3)      (4)-(2)+(3)    (5)      (6)
1970              29.5            -             29.5     23.8     19.4
1971              37.6                          37.6     31.0     17.6
1972              48.8            -             48.8     39.1     19.9
1973              11.4           51.1           62.5     51.6     17.5
1974               3.6           67.1           70.7     61.0     13.6
1975               5.4           77.7           83.1     62.7     24.5
1976               3.4           88.7           92.1      n.a      n.a
1977               7.9          108.6          116.5     93.2     20.5
1978               6.5          133.7          140.2    110.1     21.5
1979              11.1          149.4          160.5    124.0     22.7
1980              13.7          183.9          197.6    151.2     23.5
1980181           17.7          201.2          218.9    183.9     16.0
81182             21.8          206.4          228.2    201.3     11.8
82/83             24.5          222.5          247.0    200.7     18.7
83/84             89.9          148.6          238.5    202.5     15.1
84185             33.2          212.9          246.1    203.9     17.1
1985186           30.3          227.0          257.3    206.2     19.9
86/87             33.5          248.6          282.1    217.5     22.9
87/88             44.5          261.9          306.4    229.2     25.2
88189             31.8          279.1          310.9    232...    25.3
1989              32.0          287.2          320.7    235.7     26.2
Average growth rates: 1971-80                     20.9     20.3
(Z per year)      1981-89                       6.0      5.1
Notess  (1)  1970-1980  Calendar years
1980181 - 1988J89 CS T former fiscal year ending Sept. 30
As of 1989, CEET has changed over to calendar year
TOGIAnnexl-4
25-May-90
'I



TOGO                              ANNEX 1-4
____                              ---------
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT       Page 2 of 2
...._______..______.___.___.______________
2. Market Structure (1989)
.______________________
-             Sales                     Supply         Energy Losses
--------------------------      Energy  Peak       ------------
LV      UV      Total        ------
-Wh     GWh      Glh          GWh      MW        Z of Supply
1. Coastal Interconnected System
Lome                              89.3   109.9   199.2
Other towns                        9.4      5.3    14.7
Total:                            98.7   115.1   213.8        -294.1    49.1          27.3
2. Notse                                 0.9      0.2     1.1          1.5      0.3         26.7
3. Kara System                          10.2      7.9    18.1         22.1      4.5         18.1
4. Northwest (Mango, Dapaong)            2.4      0.3     2.7          3.0      0.7         10.0
Total CEETs                     - 112.2   123.5   235.7        320.7                  26.2
TOGIAnl-4p2
24-May-90



7000                                      AIIEEX I1-S
P0   REHASTATION AM  EX1MIS   PROJECT
Lnd Fér.ct end Esr.y Supply
1.  Sain
1.1 Lom   nd tviiniey                     214      m        281      247      269      29       820      847      870      a85      400      4M
1.2 Kara nd vlolnIty                        19      20       22       24       25       27       29       81       as       8s       88       40
1.S Dlpono                                  8        8        8        S        4        4        4        8        6        4        e        7
1.4  Toel                                 28       245      25S    274        298      824      858      888      4Gs      428      444      418
Mua. cogNh r.                                 8.8       4.5     7.0      8.8      8.7      9.0      8.s      0.6      4.4      4.2      4.8
2. Oer.tion
2.1 SouU.ra ntoroemm.ted Sjetml
2-2  Lo» end vIci1ly                     294      80       81s7    8a       8su       878      887      408      480      458      471      489
2.8 Kara end vl 1 nly                                                                            as       U        41       48       4u       g0
2.4  Subtotl                              24        805     817      885      850      878      422      4«       477      490      517      59
2.6  InIotld Cotr»
2.0 Kara end vielnlny                      24        25      27       29       81       a8
2.7 Dopsg end vloeimly                       8        8       4        4        4        S
2.0 Subbo"l                                 27      20        81      sa       ss       a8
2.0-uN*rn Zuteromemelon
2.10 Dapbono end vleinlty                                                                         6       -        -       -          7       -
2.11 TOTAL                                 821      888      848      8       8s9      411      427      481      48       S02      524      547
8. Supply
a.1  CTL                                    2       80       e0       76       75       75       75       76       75       75       76       75
8.2  CED                                   292      275     267      2e0      281      298       82      870      400      427      449      472
8. 81  Ieltd                                27       29       81      88        #       88        o        o        o        o        o        o
8.4  TOTAL                                 821     8a8      848       U 8     81        411     427      4S1      48       502      524      547
4.  I.plied Loess. Cl)                    20.5    20.4    28.4    27.6    28.8    21.2    17.U    16.1    16.5    16.1    15.8    16.4
5  P  k Locd Sumthrn
Imt6rcoom .odSy*tM(M1                  49       U4        a0      C0       a8       e        76       80       es       88       92       90
TO/AMnn1-6
May 2S, l9m0



39 {
ANINEX 1-6
TOGO
POiER RERABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CEET - Pover Sector Investmente FYs 90-95
CFAF     US$
Million Million
Rehabilitation & Extension Project                            11550     38.5
Generation (CTL)                                               6000     20.0
Atakpame substation                                             950      3.2
Kpime & Epalime Rehabilitation                                 3106     10.4
Atakpame-Notse line                                            1120      3.7
Dapaong-Mango line                                              940      3.1
Amlame-Badou lhne                                               710      2.4
Atakpame-Kara line                                             5550     18.5
Spare-parts                                                     270      0.9
Other investments                                              2442      8.1
Sub-total                                               15088     50.3
Total                                                         32638    108.8
AF1IEICS                                                         j
03/03/90
TSARANle



TOGO
POWER REHABIUTATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CEET - Prent Organization Chat
8/Direction  RéeionaleecEon                         n                  Ortion
Expboitai               t compe                ReSlancate
et empt"Reoureen
_ t  i4>ments                                                          Service ReCoamtic
_ 0t||    R_  Cfenreal Lomé                                                         ContSile de C|Secri ariat |
Aesn Bbkt                                Geston et         Oie
_  S/Dirction.Régkmab                     A_c< Rormat                                  t iotemn>        kale
Expotit0   Sud                                Reovr_t
_   ervice Planktlon  _8veCmtbLt       bzlomaUque
et Equemte              ra                                               ervie ReltSon
sem"k Comptabilié                            -Piubru
- Anawd~  et                                      service
Gestion lBudget                              -Pwrsonn
L   Service Fkmncomenti               Oncl~. Formation)
Trésoree                                       Affres Sociales
Cee Aase
_ béthodes.
Organizaton~
S4cuité~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1N
~4U7Oa 
r'~ ~ ~ ~ ~  



£ '-   ..  nI.S                --u~8~y It1I                                                                A?tW9d
f iruiqd                             iIP OISS  Uui'umu
SWbe00Ild    01|W%                                                             wla.uu,
0S9&Ueg Mm       i.îmuii Pm uetf                                                   amg,           Pm ociulieu.l
"°IS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                              '   S    -    1  |1Sb-  19s
1-~~~~-
hgWmO»V                              iumnueUUU         mojift  i~q~bnm           (lu  Iu1)
aulSSS00ad "00            (Vi>) SUIoieOBA     g012SiSmv            00''#S        Biemiff  Ili                                0010.1 ujq
m  mm  emilIm3v                     IV13Y31M            m 00 mmm iu 1*
*.b30 ~  ~      ~      ~       .~um *lB                                                                          .1,o
00lWIUSdOI000;                                 U0            h1UP0                    1S3IU@qUi N                           01^0 .. 0. ISi0
U«I  BMOeEmWId 3LVUDM-
uas <. £m  EOUYZUIeXO _ c        _        IV«
_001 M                                                                          :iluOu hOUu Z
< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ V3



- 42 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
POWEk REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
PPOJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed project comprises two major components namelys an
institutional development component and an investment component.
I - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
1.01         This focusses on the strengthening of the pover sector in Togo
and CEET through:
(a)  completion of an institutional study that started under PPF financing
to streamline responsibilities in the sector between CEET, CEB and
GOTé The study will also prepare a proposal for a performance
contract to be negotiated between CEET and GOT. The contract vill
focus on improving CEET efficiency as a power utility and include a
multi-year program vith budgets and targets for each year through
1992. CEET performance is to be monitored by performance indicators
lu five key areas of operations namely: saleslrevenues, collections,
manpover development, and training, qu lity of supply and physical
project implementation;
(b)  a program of technical assistance frum a mature power utility to fill
key positions where special skills are needed, or where staff members
from CEET are in training. The technical assistance for the five
years ending 1994 is estimated at about 63 man-months. This includes
short term assignments ranging from a few days to several weeks to
address particular and specific tasks, as vell as long term technical
assistance;
(c)  a training program to provide CEET with required expertise in the
technical, financial and managerial areas. The training needs for
the five years ending 1994 vill cover:
(i)     nine student years at ESIE in Côte d'Ivoire;
'ii)     twenty student years at the Côte d'Ivoîre training center;
tiii)     overseas training estimated at 20 student months.
In addition the CFPP training school in Bênin which is owned by CEB
vill provide for local training of CEET staff;
(d) overhaul the CEET customer accounting system bys
Mi)     establishing,a laboratory for meter calibration for both
the L.T. and H.T. meters;
(ii)     creating of new large scale maps and carry out a physical
inventory to identify and codify all customers in the Lomé
area and update the customer files;



- 43 -
MAOEX 3-1
Page 2 of 2
(iii)     establishing ail necessary software to update the customer
files; and
(iv)     auditing of customers arrears.
(e)  the development by consultants ofs
(M)     a computer-based management information system;
(ii)     procurement procedures;
(iii)     stock management system; and
(iv)     investment program including priorities for 1994-1999.
II - INVESTMENT COMPONENT
2.01         The investment component consists of the bulk of CEET's 1990-
1994 investment program. The rest of the investment program le being financed
by KFWjoutside this project or by CEET.
(a) Subtransmission system. CEET owns and operates three bulk substation
in Lomé namely Lomé A, Lomé B and Lomé Siège. These substations vill
be rebabilitated as followss
(M)     Lomé As  supply and erection of a new SF6 switchgear to
replace the existing one.
<il)     Lomé B:  supply and erection of a new SF6 switchgear to
replace the existing one, repairing two pover transformers
and energizing them.
(iii)     Lomé Sièges  retire the existing switchgear and replace it
by the svitchgear recovered from the Lomé A and Lomé B
substations.
(b)  Supervisory control system (SCS).  Supply and erection at CEET
headquarters of a control system to monitor and control the switching
operations at Lomé A, Lomé B and Lomé Siège substations. This should
provide PEET vith state of the art technology for monitoring the
system and detecting and responding to system disturbances.
(c)  Distribution system.  This component includes the rehabilitation and
reinfôrcement of the existing Lomé distribution system and extensions
to supply unelectrified parts of the city. At present it is
estimated that only about 45Z of householtd are electrified vith an
estimated 15,000 potential customers avaiting connection to the grid.
Engineering studies to determine quantities of materials needed and
vorks are underway and expected to be completed by May 1990.
sm/CS
o0\110190
TSAUAN31.DES



CoeAGGE BEN0IE B.Wim a TOUM0
(US O 8411 4 lm)             ~~~FOR. TOTAL
A. OS1TIO                                                           I       
1.6. 0f cm. CT..     0.0  0.00 0.00  0.0  0.58 0.03  0.0-9 -0.03 -0.03  0.0o -0.00 0.00 J0.00 0.00 0.00   0.19  1.00  1.25 OU1  4.58
I. TIMIIlssII
101 Kv sstBom,       0.01 0.0? 0.09  0.03 0.10 0.51 I0.01 0.04 0.05 I 0.00 0.00 0.00 I0.00 0.00 0.00 I0.05  0.29  0.34 05   1.29
C. 0ISIwIETII s575                                  II 
1. gilTATISS
à. La»a A           0.05  . 0 0.9   .00 0.03 0.70  0.00 0.10 0.18  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.14  1.03  1.17 00   4.28
b. Loa"             0.03 iLIS' 0.0:'  0.00 0.87 0.42  0.01 0.09 0.11  0.05 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.00  0.02  0.70 00   5.58
o. LoMua Si.        0.01 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.18 0.18  0.00 0.08 0.04  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.03  0.02  0.25 0  0.9OA
4d. Otrib. moeetctalng 0.03 0,14 oie3  0.04 0.08 0.00  0.01 0.00 0.09  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.07  0.03  0.08 30   2.21
e.O,. à spv».      0.01 0.10 0.10  0.01 0.10 0.10  0.00 0.00 0.09  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.01  0.25  0.20 9QU   1.18s
3.LM 25 KV à LT
a. ' Loac Ilole.n 1  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.92  1.22 1.48  0.20 1.40 1.72  0.28 1.40 1.72  0.18 0.78 0.00   0.00  4.07  8.73  M5  20.58
b.tu -Ru. 2&    0~. 00 0.0  0.0  0.07  .10 4   0.4  5.1 5.97  0.  2.11 2.97  0.22 1.20 1.40   1.40  0.41  9.09 US8 85.48
o. 1.1., Tnte £5*.  000 0.0  0.u  000 0.14 0.14  000 014 0.14  000 0.20 0.28  0.00 0.20 0.20   0.00  0.04  0.94 1001  3.48
d. en. à sown.       0.01 0.10 0.18  0.01 0.10 0.10 I 0.01 0.18 0.10 1 0.01 0.15 0."10  0.01 0.1.1 0.16 I0.00  0.77  0.01 958  2.98
o.Projet 1.ne.ucont   0.03 0.03 0.00  0.03 0.03 -0.03-10.   0.0  0.00- jL 0.03 0.03 0.00 I .0t00  0.03 I- 0.0  0.001      0.01
Sebtotl C-S          0.08 0.57 0.29 I .180   .6I07   .0 8.03  0.78 4.44 5.1 I7 10.00 2.44 2.03 I  .47 15.00 17.84 0 682.61
Oubbatot  C          0.11 0.97 1.00  0.ét 3. 19 0.00  0.70 4.74 8.53  0.78 4.44 6.17  0.38  2.44 2.02   2.00 17.78 20.59 80  78.71
0. oiims
1. Oilling Spetos    0.00 0.00 0.00  0.27 0.02 0.09  0.18 0.42 0.89  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00   0.48  1.04  1.48 705  5.08
2. Situdio.
a.Pr. à stare 1mo.ng80    010.00.01 0.18 0.10  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00)  0.02  0.30  0.81 958  1.18
b.: InetitIutIonal taaj 0.01 0.:16t 0.17  0.01 0.10 0.17  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.:00 0.00g 0.00   0.02  0.38  0.34  oS  1.28
c. 5.1.5. Systo. 0.0  000 0.00  0.00 0.03 0.03  0.00 0.01 0.01  0.00 0.01 0.01  0.0000    0.00   0.00  0.04  0.06  0S  0.28
d.Second PoerFrojoci 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00  0.01 0.11 0.12  0.00 0.07 0.07  0.00 0.04 0.00   0.01  0.22  0.28  58  0.08
Oubtatt 0-.       0.o00   7 -î- 0.81c0.08  0.0   0.08 i 0.05   0.01 0.1   0.18  0.00 i 0.0  0.00  0.00o 0.04; 0.05i  0.5  0.09;  0.î 98  8.48
a. Training          0.07 6%.&? 0.24  0.07 0.17 0.24I 0.07 0.17 0.24  0.07 0.17 0.24I 0.07 0.17 0.24   0.00  0.08  1.10 708  4.28
4. Techaieat Aeeletu»c
a. Long Tore        0.01 0.14 0.14 I 0.01 0.14 0.14  0.01 0.14 0.14  0.01 0.14 0.14  0.01 0.14 0.14 1 0.04  0."8  0.72 un  2.68
b. 38ort Tam00   .40.000r.4  .0j00  0.04 0~.06  0.0  0.0  0.0    .00.04 0.05   0.01  0.22  0.28 958  0.81
SutOtel 0-4.      0.01 0.10 0.1 Iq 0.01 0.10 0.   0.01 0.1  0.19  0.01 0.13 0.9I000.19      .1    00    .9   .9   5   8.48
5. Mlac.lt8onou.     0.00 0.24 0.54  0.00 0.24 0.24  0.00 0.24 0.24  0.00 0.24 0.24  0.00 0.24 0.24 I00    .012 1008  4.88
subtotel 0.       0.10 0.0  .0  0.8Î7 1.88- 19-1  0.27 1.1  1.39  0. 00 0.i8 0.800   .807           .040 8.77 04   56
IOTAL SAI£ COST     0.23 1.94 2.10  1.30 7.44 0.74  1.à5 0.48 7.00  0.01 5.10 8.91  0.48 8.00 8.54 I  .94 24.01 27.95 00 100.08
Total =l,. Cont.    0.03 0.10 0.25  0.18 0.73 0.08  0.11 0.08 0.74  0.00b 0.49 0.57  0.04 0.29 0.80   0.30  2.12  2.59 US8
Total Fr c. C'ut.    0.01 0.00 0.00  0.10 0.90 1.00  0.25 1.18 1.08  0.10 1.18 1.30  0.10 0.09 1.03   0.09  4.17  4.00 OU1
Total Continonclo.  0.0c6 0.25 0.25  0.25 1.0   1910.8  1.78- 20-7  0.-27 1.07; .$ -94  0.17-.10 188-1.0  0.9  7.5-6 08%
06AN0   TOTAL   0.20 2.20 3.44  1.88 9.07 10.68  1.46 0.20 0.00  1.00 0.77 7.081  0.08 4.20 4.89  0.00 00.50 385-0 WU8
- - - - -~                -     -   - -o  ~     ui  -M   -      -       ~ --    -     -     -
Doq.ATION FACTUl    1.04   j      1.11            1.10            1.21            1.20
DULAT1OR: F003E51  0.080         0.072           0.044           0.044           0.04 
0B0e4:U    DWflIT  lx IR 8 TOTAIL 0.911        30.001          27.5%           22.11           18.08              1008                                  rt
AFTZE:Sl/L@



- 45.-.
TOGO                           Annex 3-3
COMPAGNIE ENERGIE ELECTRIQUE DU TOGO
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENTION PROJECT
-__---------------------------------------
PROPOSED FINANCING PLUI
(US $ million)
Source of Financing
__________________________
Project Component                   Total Cost      CEET      IDA       CCCE
1. Rebabilitation of CTL CT's          1.56         0.23      1.33
2. 161 kV works                        0.42         0.07                0.35
3. Distribution system
a. Substations & Despach Center    3.68         0.41                3.27
b. Netwo'rk Lome region 1          7.43         1.11      6.32
c. Network Lome region 2          12.8Z         1.92               10.90
d. Spares. Tools, & Vehicles       1.22                   1.22
e. Engineering & Spvn.             1.03         0.05                0.98
f. Project Management              0.21         0.11      0.10
4. Billing System                      1.85         0.55      1.30
5. Studies
a. Proc. & Store Management        0.37         0.02      0.35
b. Institutional Study             0.41         0.02      0.39
c. MIS System                      0.06                   0.06
d. Prep. of neot project           0.31         0.02      0.29
6. Training                            1.45         0.44      1.01
7. Technical Assistance
a. Short Term                      0.28         0.01      0.27
b. Long Tern                       0.87         0.04      0.83
8. Miscellaneous                       1.53                   1.53
TOTAL                       35.50         5.00     15.00     15.50
Percentage of total           100           14        42        44
I~~~~~~~~~~~~I *
SMPlfinplan
11-Dec-89



la
:1*
'4
<M gU
n            *B.
'4                                   g,.
k                         o          <i *
p        'J       -       'J
d               i.     -
4      'M
2;     .                                Gi
k ! i
o
eau                                              O4-       z
il                                                          I    I   I    I
il                               i
i _____  E
't               '4                   O
0                   -
o.
o
-                   14
o.                  @2
y>                                        --
4
1P
o                                                                            q4g
o                           g sea
e
q4.4
2;    h
e -
O                  o.          -
-        <OU>   -
t        t



POI IUAItATIOW  ID AU  uSIOUI  ? SOJ
_R0310   hFLfIuOu SCU I
SUBS$TATIONS                   1990          1991          1992          1993          1994
lEgineeriiîg & Tendering     ,
Public 11d opening 
Bld Evaluation & Approv.                 ix
Contract Negot. & Signature                 x
Engineering.  <anuf.. Test., & Shlp.         xxx   Xx
Installation                                          u 
DISTRIBUTION
i              >~~~~~~~~~~.
Engineering             .
Prep. of Bld Documents                   xxxx
Tendering                                    xx
Bid Opening                                   a
Bld Evaluation & Approv.                       xx  xx
Contract legot. & Signature                         s
Engineering. Manuf., Test., I Ship.                  xsxxxxxx x
Erection                                                                      .                        -
I..



- 48 -
AMez 3-6
TOGQO POVER REHAJILITATIoW PROJECT
-         Esttimated Credit Dilbursements
(US$ K±lltou>
IDA Fiscal Year            During                         IBEDIIDA
and Quarter Ending         Quarter la   Cumulative        Profile Z  lb
90-IV  June  90              0.75  Ic        0.8               5
9,1-I   Sept. 90   .         0.30            1.1               7
II  Dec.  90              0.45            1.5             10
III Mar.  91              0.60            2.1              14
IV  June  91              0.90            3.0
92-I   Sept. 91              0.90            3.9              26
II  Dec.  91              0.75            4.7             31
III Mar.  92              1.05            5.7             38
IV  June  92              1.35            7.1             47
93-I   Sept. 92              1.05            8.1              54
II  Dec.  92              1.05            9.Z              61
III Mar.  93              1.05           10.2             68
IV  June  93              1.05           11.3              75
94-1   Sept. 93              0.90           12.2              81
II  Dec.  93              0.90           13.1              87
111 Mar.  94              0.75           13.8              92
IV  June  94              0.45           14.3              95
95.I   Sept. 94              0.45           14.7              98
IX  Dec.  94              0.30           lS.0             100
--_---------------------------------------.------_---------_----
/a Assumes Credit Effectiveness bY May 1990.
lb IBRD/IDA Hast Africa Specifig Iuvestmert Loans, Pover Sector.
ic Includes refundinS of US$ .75 million PPF Advance.
14-
12
I'   _ _____ _                                       - E  .   _    _- _  . 
*
n~-                                           5 _ -  _ -  _ S-  - _   -
'S "___ ___ .__ts_s_s_     
s g- ..                                     _ _                          -       _d_>__
D<Wmbaroumu by MDA PV MAt Q.ater
O"  8y m tu              _              , _ _____ CmuI. Db



- 49 -
iI
TIIC  - PoWU RD4ABILlTATWIN AN> £XTIlON PROJ8T                                                                               xM   4-1
CmET-INCOI STAT£H4T             1978    1979      198     1981     1982    193       1984    Iss      1986     1987     198      9le89
CFAF MILLION                    ----     --       -----                      ---      --       ,       --       ---       --         -
Energy ales.in Owh               110     124      151      184      201      201      .32      204      204      217      229      288
Av.pric..in FCFAIkWh              19      20        19      25       S1       34       44       49       S7       Se       as       E4
Enery revenue                   20S2    241    2840    4619    S279    6902    8986          9958    11s"    12072   1204    15S07
Other op. revenue                62      690      741      a8u     lIS1     1819    1144       786     1194     1141    1221    3310
---  - ---    -   --  _- -- _- --  ---- -- _- --    _- ---    - ---    - ---    _ - - -- _--      _ 
Total revenues                  2704    3108      m81    sm08    784c>    8721    10130   10744    12760    1321       & 1S72S   13917
Fuel                            206      308      S69      681    1058      lm08    S402    1077    2009        1764    25S2      1964
Power purchi» C29              5s8       731      90e    lm8      2432    2897    27s5    so3s    4871    4808          am2S    824s
Ibtariale                       1514     408      499    le8       794     1120      997      S41    8a8        676      300    1;07
. raon.l                         608     681      782      781      932      892      965      995    1o00      11S0    1204      18
Toaut                            140      179     139      148      194      344      148      270      316      810      ass      698
Services                         le2     200      241      28s      290      319      412      499      396      457      409      69S
Trao,port                         70      46       27       21       74       89      108      108       73       65      108      Ica
Other op. expeonso               57       67       82      111      119      l23      124      18a      168      204      lue      258
Provisios .                       s19    382      478      1611    1219    1319        97      820    2812    9203       25s7     asss
_ . _~~~~~~-----    ----    ----    ----    ---_--  
Tot l op. expenes               3540    2972    372       7130     7112    8389    9018    9801    12l31    126S8    13256   10218
Operating mnc..                 -8a6      13s    -145   -1625       728      332     1112    1143       467      m8e      439      701
Intereat                        187      a32      218      242      172      138        4       44       29       23       16        9
Non-o. adjutanta                                          -781      321      592     -U49    -911       aS6      837      7S6        o
- -  _ _  _ - - -    _---  - - _---  -  _- --    _----  -_-- -  _ - - --  __-
Net inco.e                    -1023      -196    -383   -248        877      791      479      188      998    l072      1179      692
Operatino rati                 130.9    95. 6    104.0   129.5    90.7    98.2    89.0    89.4    98.3    95.8    98.8    98.«
geR                            -31.1      3.8    -2,8   -26.9    12.0        5.3    16.8    16.5        3.4       . 8     2.4      4.2
FV'. 78 to 88: 10/1-9/30. FY8s9: 10/1/8-12/31/89.
09-Feb-90



7380 - J0  08DJ*14M    CBISPl                                                                                                                                 AI4-2
E       Sr-ftM    FLOI 87T87ES0  19 76          lm0      1981    1          m      194        "     lB       1987    1968       9                       7W-9 81 MillIon
OIarati in.us                   0     lu        -14S   -162S      728              1112    1148      487  S88          4S9     701                       8010      IO
Depresticin                     16S     35       478      4SS      u6S    1819   lm9        au8    26S2    S092    2SS7    2920                        1650       Sa
Total lntari fuona            -08       488     838   -1172    l2m8    168t    2a2s    1998    3we    asso    2996    am21                             19890      66
Vmr.woihine ciital              S20      S3    -e8    -249    -184         n8e    -SS5       l8u    2324      1n      1017    2709                       4N4        U
int.eret                        t67     U32      218      242     172    1u          64      44       29       28       le       9                       1489       5
PrinaIeai                         7      25      2S6      lSS    11       SOS      112      ill     181       9S      100     100                      2109        7
Tot.op.uoquiraumota             714     410      9f   -2882        tS9    1472    -89        S18    24    1289    ltS         2818                       72        2S
Nit                           -1862      78      2B7    1680    1184       179    2680    160        sa      2361   1l68        808                    l185       89
capital wp.dltorea             208    2074       ais      Su5     aie   lm9        928      607   12868      476    4ss2    1140                       27604      92                       O
inlm8 a87    1996                                278   -1145    -6a6    1217   -1737   -1078   11818   -1808    2089 e37                                  8        88
f iraod bs:
C am cr,ibutio                                                    24u9      0c       61      l84     122       83       2e   - 405                       4100      14
oroeina                        238s      80      187    -220    -149       402       47    -26e       -1       -8            a              2138                    9
EQU'it                         1787    1917       66    -ss    -2192       -58   -1178    -s1i   1l1S3   -841         2424     282                     1ls82       a9
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~--_- -
Total Capital surc             4140    1947      2Js   -t20S       tæ      844   -l70    -594   11774   -lil    2756          900                      lem64      62
Cas reri.tIon                   18       -49     -2S      -SB     764    -s878     687       479     -44      S74       87      m6a -                    27a8       9
Camh buin ynr                  -368    -218    -264    -289    -847        417       44      711    1190    11»0    1720    1807                        -88        -1
Cah* ud yr                     -215    -264    -289    -847       417       44    7n1    1190    1148    1720    1807    2870                            270        8
'I
vurly JMc                     -88.1     8.6    48.0   814.0   222.8    12.8   288.2   270.8          4.4   498.0    41.1    70.4
Averaga N1                    -89.1     4.5    22.8   821.4   141.4    18.0   272.7   a8.8    12.2-   40.8    90.9    17.0                                48
Deil »sruîo covarage           -8.4      1.4     0.7    .4.0      4.0      1.8    11.8    12.8    14.7    80.9    28.8  a8.2
Rate of esahan g   US:  SFAF    8z0
AFIZE16
09-Fei-10



- 51 -
T0O - fOfER R      IUAtTIN AMS  OV NSIgIN PROJE                                                                      ,S AN     4-8
mr5-eAU&NM gfE                  1978     1979     190     1981    192        19m8l    1984     1908     198S     1907     1986l     198
CFFAPMILLON                     -        --   --         --      -          _ --   ---- ---    -     --       ---- _-       --        -
Cro" FA ln op.                  4259     6472     8S78    e858      9485   l1294    11161    11969   24946   2818    26068   27000'
le" Ocpr cialon                 1m       l9       241U     2784     S481    88a4      4822    4985      4100      6207    0432   lU00
NMt FA in Op.                   26       4887     5985     6124     60S4    4410      6839    7004   20848    19108    1768        15700
verk in  prores                 u152     1726      882     387       278      m6        921      790      107      21      8992    4200
Toeli Filud Ate                 48       6260     62n7    6511        m2    7275      7760    7734    209S2    19321    21628    19900
Cash                             117      100      175       1O      417       48      711      1190     1148     1720    107      2370
Inventeria                      1772     1772    2011       60       6        609      617      701      869      1197     1279     1400
RectlvablIe                     1486     1784    lm0      1723    2729      4582      807    38297      4810    6m9       6607     9000
Othcr currsnl usnu"              21       2        198       78      100       1e8      169      S10      480      597      479      M0o
Toel curret sete                Sm4      a878     4289     2441    a89m      8864     4584    5498       7075     920S    10172    13570
Tolta  usuet                   8s14    l018      10U6      89       IM       MU    12294    18232    28027    2 8-7 S810            8S470
Equl ty                         8186     48.f    480o   -1096       -10     1101     1722    2528    I03S6    I5-   21144   22470
Long tlre dubt                  82a8     a2m8     8179    2804      2504    2105    2040       l166      1479    1U81      l27      1400
Cirrent lisbillli               1448     1689    234S    892e    8u55        64S3     802       am29     812S     8812    8S74      6800
B8nk oerdraft                    3S2      864      464      857        O        1        0        0         0        0        0        0
Conu_rs contributlos                                       2958    2748    2M9        a80    8214        86       869     3698     4100
Toet   liabilitO e              8184    10188   1086       8982     10Z12   t2689    12294    1282    26027    2327    8t800   38470
btî/Dsbt Equilty                  iS       40       41      164      t01        86      54        4.        8        7        8        8
Equlty/Debt4quity                 49       60       e9      -64       -8       84       46        10       92      9e        94       94
Currmnt ratio                    2.5      2.4      1.8      0.6      0.8      0.8      0.8       0.9      1.4      1.7      1.9      2.6
AFlwîuC
09-Fsb-90



- 52 -
ANNEX 4-4
(Page 1 of 2)
TOGO
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CEET - Existing Tariffs
(S4nce July 1, 1985)
1.    Low Voltage
1.1   Residential
Up to 100 kWh/month           CFAF 58/kWh
From 101 to 200 kWh/month     CFAF 53/kWh
Above 200 kWhlmonth           CFAF 51/kWh
1.2   Commercial
Monthly fixed charge: CFAF 575/k7VA subscribed
Energy charge:
Up to 100 kWhlmonth           CFAF 53/kWh
From 101 to 200 kWhlmonth     CFAF 51/kWh
Above 200 kWh/month           CFAF 48/kWh
1.3  Public Lighting
All energy charged at:        CFAF 511kWh
2.    Medium Voltage
2.1   Pover subscribed < 500 kVA
Yearly fixed charge: CFAF 17,Z50/kVA subscribed
Energy charge:
from 18 to 23 h               CFAP 54/kWh
from 06 to 18 h               CFAF 41/kWh
from 23 to 06 h               CFAF 37/kWh
2.2   Pover subscribed > 500 kVA
Yearly fixed charge: CFAF 17,250/kVA subscribed
Energy chargez
from 18 to 23 h               CFA! 52/kWh
from 06 to 18 h               CFA! 39/kWh li
/i       from 23 to 06 h                CFAF 37/kWh 1/
1/ Off-peak tariff applicable only to consumers with more than
200 hours of utilization of their pover subscribed.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4-4
(Page 2 of 2)
3.    Office Toaolais des Phosphates (OTP)
Monthly fixed charge:          CFAF 12,400,000
Demand charge:                 US$ 9.46/kVA/month
Energy charge:                 USc 5.08/kWh
4.    Meter Rent and Deposit
A charge for meter rent and an advance deposit are payable by all
consumers. In addition, a charge for meter maintenance is payable
by medium voltage consumers.
APlIE/CS
11/15/89
TOANSAR4
l



Ta  - P"R «EHNfITAilt0  A   XT          N PROJENT                                                                                                        >4888 4-8
cor - ARCS F     STAeIr    1989         10    1991        1992     1998     1994    199       1996     9m      1i98             9s    8 Million   89-t S Mi l lion
CFAF MUILLIO                   -    _             - _  _  _ .            ,_
O"taimg Incor_a                 701     «60      o2n       988     1468     1685    179?      1948    2S72    2858              7?06        2S    15409        a1
Daraciablcn                    220    a177    am          3641    am0       4167    4181    4876    8654        2789            2269         76               m 121
Total Itatamal fun"            am82    8mZ       4327     4s2e    sam                6178    8JQ4      6as6     Sm52             8018s     1so    81797       178
Vr.olne cuital                 2709     -e        99      109      1080      679    562       -508      490      12              S4m2       12    am62        21
InItrest                          9      880     700      eoo      lm20    lOSD      1050    1010    lOBD       100             4970        17    8119        27
Princ Ipal                      100      460     880      700      766      1800    1480     lm6       170      9et               m7S        18     9e         82
Tot.cp.raquiraanta             2010     -se      292a     2sea    2B1s    302M      am72    2tea    5270        2072             1B67        4e   2a899        a0
iaco                           8m8    8s26    2038    208          2tSB     2924    810B      4261    80S    352s                le4m0      S5    27878       'A
Capital *xpmdldtra             1140    eSDO      4776    6SB       a9m6     as00    4190    4900       4180     4180              2588     1Mg   48978        157
blaaca                          83?    4574    2738    a270    a42s    1078           m4      B9       1085     s70              16170       54    IQUo        84
finncad by:
Cc_mar. contributlon.           405      217      807     J29       asl      a7       408      481      481      498              20sa        7     am48       18
Oerroeinga                      218    7BBB    J1         38e1    S227      1618     1         689  10  lm      20eo             20978       70    26186       87
squIty                          282   -4250-        O        O        O        O        O        O        O        o             -4250     -14    4968        -la
Totl capital arem               9oo    896    3S20        8644    a5m7      1989    2042      1981     191    2498              18778      8e    2606e        87
Cxd variation                   eSa     -89       882       74     1l0       9la      988     1292      a77     l628              26o0        9      S9m       2a
Cauh begin pea                 1807   a270    1701    288    2Wa?    S107    4020    4978              6270     7147              270         a     MW7         S
Cab *nd yexr                   2s70     1701    2588    2w7        8107     4020    4978      S270    7147    8770                478        17    87a0        29
Yarlp NICI                     70.4    48.2    42.7    88.4    42.5    72.4    74.1    87.0    78.9    79.0
Averagae N6                    17.0    81.7    82.9    68.1    S0.2    80.8    71.7    98.5    69.7    79.0                         go                59
Oabt m rMIce cevwmga           88.2      4.8      8.8      8.1      8.0      2.5      2.5      2.8      2.8      2.7
Rate cf etx "uca: USICFAF       Mo
Al/09E/0
ArU



TOOO - FOUER REHA8!UMATZON AND EXTENION PROJECT                                                           ANNEX 4-0
CEEt - INCOME STATENUEN       1989    10       1991    lm        1998    194       1995    19m    1997    1998
CFAF iZLLION                                              --   -    --   --   -    -    --
Purchesse fro  CED,ln Wh *    842       276      2C7      290      281      298      852      87e      408      427
Tber  l aon.ratboo,ln 00h       40       se       91      108      110      118       756      7        76       78
of whcCTL.                       1       80       60       76       76       75       76       75       7t       75
Isl.dlsel              89       28       81       88       35       8B        o        O        o        o
Tê*.al,1o In                   a42      888      848      mes    8s         411      427      451      488      502
Av CEB price,CFAF/kUh           24       24       24      2a       2a       2a        29       29       29       82
Av.CTIL cost,CFAF/kWh           42       15      1        17       17       18       19       20       21       22
Av. ssl.dlsssl,CFAF/kWh         49       s5 cs             si       64       87
En.rgy *Is, ln OUi.            289      246      268      274      298      824    8a8        a88      408      426
Loas, ln S                      25       28       2e       ae       24       21       17       15       16       15
fv.prlce,ln CFAF/kWh            64       s6       S7       68       se       S8       S8       S6       S8       S0
Enera> renus                 15607   18720   14800   15890   17290    18800   20830    21620   22000   28760
Other Op. rvomie              8310    2708      2849    8195    8816    8722    2776         2788-   2929    829
l-         -       -       -                 --        -                           41
Tot*l r vnue                 18917   18428   17449   19086   20908    22522   28105    24858   25729    27041
Ful -                         1964    10    2740    8237    8586    8907    1488    1608    1588    1eu                                 'n
Poer porchas. CED             8246     MW00    1es8   0780    7B0          7748   10208    10904   11882   18884                        'n
Matrlaria                     1807    1119    1197    1281        1871    1407    1609       1079    1797    1928
Personnl                      1658    1502    1696    1701    1016    1916    2012    2118    2219    2829
Transport                      100      117      128      129      186      141      149     16      1U4       172
Other op. expenus             1444      918      920      961      974    10Sa    1098       1191-    1293    1404
Provision                     8595    8587    8788    4088    4806    4805    4840    4868    4170    8801
Tote l op. expenses          18210    1578    16527   18097   19442   20887   21809   22409   28058   24468
OperatUno inco                 701      060      922      98S    1405      188      1797   - 1948    2872    2683
Intsrrst                         9      860      700      800    1020    1m50    100         1010    1080    1050
Net incrn                      892      800      222    18        44E      u85      747    9o8       1S92    158
=  C=     _= _M =                   e=      -_                -        -
Op rating ratlo               so.8    96.0    04.7    94.8    98.0    92.6    92.2    92.0    89.8    00.4
RoR                            4.2      8.6      4.2      4.8      8.0      8.7      7.1      7.8    10.3      9.0
e .cludIng OTP end CIA, whtch are treted a  ciont of CED
F O9 represue    a 18-uonth perltd
AF0IE/0S
CEETNC
02/09900



"OG - POW   REHABIUTATION AND ENSION PROJECT                                                                 ANE 4-7
CEET - BALANCE SHEET           1989     1990      1991     1992     1998     1994     1995      1998     1997     lm
CFAF MILLION                             -        -----                       ---   ---         --       ---
Oro.. FA In op.               27000    8680    4<.àa    46098    50848    54848    69418    a8863    08221    726a0
lne  dsprclation              11800    14477    17882    21528    26411    29578    88959    a888      41999   44788
Net FA l n op.                16700    21878    22581   22856    24987    25270    2545s    25618    26222    27762
Work 1n progre..               4200      8860     4068     4684      400     4800     4420   . 4886      4007     46c0
Total Flx.d Asse"             19900    25228    20694    28269    80887    30070    29879    80408    M80        82270
Cash                           2870      1701     2588     2957     8107     4020     4979      8270     7147     8770
Inventori..                    1400     2210      2885     2580     2707     2897     8100      8817     849      8797
Recesvables                    9800     dm60      0570     7161     7781     8460     9149      8048     9120     9500
"tber current *nets             500       si       026      672      725      788      5a8       929     1015     1109
Total current auto"           18570    1l852    12148    18810    14819    16160    18080    19104    20881    28176
Total assets                  88470    86575    88787    41589    44666    462e3    47959    49667    61720    66446
=   _   == =  == 3C
Equlty                        22470    18620    18742    18980    19874    20009    20750    21098    2828S    24818
Long toem dbt                  1400     8818   t1101    14116    106578    16891    17100    17040    18840    17940
Curr.ntt labl l Mes            5500     4860      8800     8500     ao80     8680     8950      4250     4650     5180
onuk overd-aft                    0        0         O        O        0        O        O         O        0        O
Consumas contrlbutlons         4100     4a87      4694     6028     5874     57S0     6158     6584      704S     75a8
Totl It blbIl tl              88470    865?S    88787    41589    44656    40280    47969    49567    61720    66440
== C==                                  C3==3= 3 ==a  =  =
Debt/DebtEqulty                   a        82      8s        48       40       46       4S        44       42       42
Equlty/0.bb4quity                94       08        82       67       U4       64       66        se       68       S8
Curvwnt ratio                   2.6      2.8       8.2      8.8      4.8      4.8      4.0       4.5      4.6      4.6
AF1IE/CS
02/09/90
_._ _



I     - 57-
ANNEX 4-8
(Page 1 of 3)
TOGO
POWER REJABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Assumptions
The main assumptions used in preparing CEET's financial forecasts
are as follows.
Assumptions concerning generation and sales have been derived in
Annex 1-5 as followss
Purchases Generation  Generation   Total       Sales
PY    from CEB  from CTL   is.diesels    GWh          GWh
90        275         30           28       333        245
91        257         60           31       348        256
92        260         75           33       368        274
93        281         75           35       391        298
94        298         75           38.      411        324
95        352         75                    427        353
96        376         75                    451        383
97        408        7i5                    483        408
98        427         75                    502        426
CTL genwiration in FY89 was about 1 GWh, all from the gas-turbines.
The repair of the four diesel units being completed, CEET will
start using these units as from FY9U, and progressively increase
their output to about 75 GWh per year in order to maintain the
plant and itÊ personnel capability to respond to any emergency,
such as the breakdown of the CEB transmission network or a
reduction of VRA's supplies.
Cost of power purchases from CEB: starting from the actual price
of CFAF 24.1 per kWh as of 1/1/89, it has been assumed that
increases of 10% would take place every three years.
FY        GWh        CFAF/kWh  CFAF Million
90        275          24            6600
91        257          24            6168
92        260          26            6760
93        281          26            7306
94        298          26            7748
95        352          29           10208
96        376          29           10904
97        408          29           11832
98        427          32           13664



- 58 -
ANNEX 4-8
(Page 2 of 3)
Fuel costs have been computed on the following basiss for CTL,
specific consumption of 0.25 1/kWh, tax-exempt fuel at CFAF 45/1
(total CFAF 15.0/kWh generated, including gasoil for starting and
stopping, lube oil and consumption of spares), escalated at 5% per
year. For the isolated diesels, an average cost of CFAF 55/kWh
generated has been assumed, escalation also at 5% per year. On
this basis, fuel costs are as computed belows
CTL   CFAF/   CFAF   Isol.diesel CFAF/  CFA?  Total CFAF
FY    GWh     kWh   Million    GWh         kWh  Million   Million
90     30    15.0       450       28       55.0     1540      1990
91     60    15.8       948        31      57.8     1792      2740
92     75    16.5      1238        33      60.6     2000      3238
93     75    17.4      1305        35      63.7     2230      3535
94     75    18.2      1365       38       66.9     2542      3907
95     75    19.1      1433                                   1433
96     75    20.1      1508                                   1508
97     75    21.1      1583                                   1583
98     75    22.2      1665                                   1665
Other headings of operating expenditure (materials, personnel, etc)
have been escalated in line with the development of CEET's
activities.
Depreciation is computed on the following basis: for existing
assets, according to their useful remaining lifetime, for CTL over
15 years, and for new investments (mainly distribution) over 16
years.
Interest has been computed on the assumption that the average rate
of interest for new loans would be about 5%. This reflects the
grant element included in loans from CCCE and KfW, as well as the
onlending arrangements for IDA's loan.
Fixed Assets/Work in Progress are based on CEET's investment plan.
The transfer of CTL for an estimated amount of CFA? 6 billion has
béen assumed to take place in FY90, and an equivalent amount has
been charged to Long Term Debt that same year.
Cash is the balancing item of the Balance Sheet. The amounts thus
computed arc consistent with CEET's minimum cash requirements.
Excess cash beyond FY96 could be subject to Government withdrawal,
in the form of dividends for instance.
Inventories and Other Current Assets, as well as Current
Liabilities, have been computed in line with the development of
CEET's activities.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4-8
(Page 3 of 3)
Receivables have been computed on the basis of the following
average assumptions 5.4 months in PY90, and 4.8 months thereafter.
Average conditions for long term loans have been assumed to be as
followss 20 years, of which 4 years grace period, interest at 5%.
The drop in Equity in FY90 takes into account a proposed amendment
by the auditors; it has been assumed that the proposed amendment
would be incorporated in CEET's FY90 annual accounts.
AFlIE/CS
05/25/90                                                                    !
TOFFASS
;*



- 60 -
TOC0                                         ANNEX 5-1
POWER REHABILITATION AME EXTENSION PROJECT
Economcu Analysis
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     --       2010 /t
Costa:
Investmnet (US$ 000) la                 2378     9614     8860     ôS01      8894
O & M /b                                           48      240       907     1087     1115              1116
Energy Requlrad (GWh)
Wlth the project                    805      817      sss       SE6      878     B87                887
Without the proj.ct                 S0S      817      829       841      841      841               841
IncretentaI Enorgy (0Mh)                   O        O        l       lS        82       48                46
Cost of Inc. En-rgy /c
Wlth ti.e proJece     CTL         1500    a8oo      8750     8750      8760     8750              a760
CEB        22000    2058o    20800    22480    2a840    26580             25860
Total        28500    285O    24550    26280    27590    29110               29110
Without the proj«ct  CEB         24400   23860    26820    27280    27280    27280               27280
Incromentol Enorgy Co0t                 -900    -1800    -1770    -1060l 810          l                 1880
Total Inc. Cost /d                1476     7882    8880    es88        5241     2946              2946
Benefits:
En-rgy Saleo (CWh)
Wlth the project                   222      281      247      269       29a      820               820
Without the proJ.ct                222      280      289      248       248      248               248
Incremental Sales (GWh)                    °        1        8       21        45       72                72
Total Inc. 8enefita je               °      188     1467     8860      8250    18200             18200
NET BENEFITS                       -1476    -7679    -8688   -2508       8009    10265             10266
IERR (1)                                  as
a/ Capital investa.nt Includlng 10% physlcal contingoncy.
b/  2% of cumcalativ  Investment plus US   ,000 annuelly for CT'. 0U.
c/ At the present CEB en-rgy price of CFAF 24/kWh.               1
d/ Conaistlng of Invtmnt1cot, 0U1 coet, and coet of en.rgy from CE.
el Incr.nest.l sales valued nt the average t.rlff of CFAF 56/kWh.
f/ Intervenlng y.re are tdantlcal,
TOc/.con2
24-May-90



-61-
ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 2
TOGO
POWER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Documents, Reports and Studies on Subsector
Lepal Documents
-    Ordonnance No. 63-12 du 20 mars 1963 portant créatiôn de la
Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo.
-    Décret No. 63-152 du ll décembre 1963 portant approbation des
Statuts de la Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo.
-    Décret No. 80-161 du 28 mai 1980 portant définition des
attributions et organisation du Ministère de l'Industrie et des
Sociétés d'Etat.
-    Loi organique No. 82-5 du 16 juin 1982 relative aux Sociétés
d'Economie Mixte.
-    Loi organique No. 82-6 du 16 juin 1982 relative aux Sociétés
d'Etat et Etablissements Publics à caractère économique.
-    Décret No. 82-177 du 30 juin 1982 portant application des Lois
organiques relatives aux Sociétés d'Etat, Etablissements Publics
à caractère économique et aux Sociétés d'Economie Mixte.
Audit Reports
-    CEET, Rapport de révision des comptes 1986, A. Andersen,
July 1987.
-    CEET, Rapport de révision des comptes 1987, A. Andersen,
October 1988.
-    CEET, Rapport de révision des comptes 1988, A. Andersen,
August 1989.
Organizational Studies
-    CEET, Remarques générales sur CEET, ADL, April 1989.
-    CEET, Etude de diagnostic, ADL, August 1989.
lariff Studies
-    CEET, Etude de Tarification de l'Energie Electrique, EdF,
June 198J.
-    CEET, SBEE, CEB - Etude Tarifaire, Rapport FiLal, EdF,
Februgry 1988.



-62 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 2
General
-    CEB, Etude d'Inventaire des Ressources hydroélectriques
potentielles du Togo et du Bénin ec Plan Directeur de
Développement de la Production et du Transport, Sir Alexander
Gibb/Tractionel, September 1983.
-    Togo, Rapport sur le Secteur de l'Electricité, World Bank,
May 1984.
-    Togo, Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, World BankI
UNDP, June 1985.
-    Togo, Power Efficiency Study of CEET, World Bank/UNDP, October 1987
B.  Selected Reports and Studies Relatin. to the Project
-    CEET, Plan Directeur de la Distribution à Lomé, Tractionnel,
August 1983.
-    Togo, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of November 14, 1988.
-    Togo, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of March 1, 1989.
-    Togo, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of June 14, 1989.
-    Togo, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of November 1, 1989.
-    Togo, Power Rehab./Ext. Project, BTO of May 23, 1990.
C. Selected Working Papers
-    Computer printouts, ACTCEET, February 1990.
-    Computer printouts, FFCEET, February 1990.
TOPROFIL
46/2a/so



BI      AA  j- A                                                    . -r. 
_ SawIw(                                                                  *I/9A BURKINA    S.    /
Do ng                                                            FASOA            
.-.~~~   ~       NIG~ERIA
COTE   uJGHAft
i    \l       ~~i                            <,                      o ,éroNv
Mang\                                            )
-.         S'nlv  .                         -4<         - i 9  t?7;;0qF ,
<~~~~~N   -'u                        .                                             k;'          ' '&i
10'  ls   Kant6  >    TOGO - BENIN - GHANA       -
Kantêq       1%
flmt    i    !   ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM
J              N amtou    °                  RESEAU ELECTRIQUE
x     \    /' iEXISTING  FACILITIES
AMENAGEMENTS EXISTANTS
i    .\  /     -      NEXIS11NG   FUTURE
I  ~~~~~~~~ ~~POWER LINES
Hassar A          *9aI loi\HRESAU LIGNES
161 6kV
GHANA                                                                                     2 0 2kv
T                        El A   )ProHy&WW&4q CEB ,(
/  g7  *\              /        ) okoeIê  <,o 
.   -7J     \      Soaouboua A                                                        S
\.         b         I x          ~~~~~~~~~~~* tM DW tzow ts to
A    aI' vI   p                               \               -t't_
__  NatiUWEx&Caital     r
2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Caits Naloetes'o«  
r I    | ._   Itnematlonal Boundarles
8  -         /   j,_                                 - _    -     ; ,           Fdnb&tires IntemtfonaItes
ul  (  `   5             se      `        !      o    ~~~~~~~~~~26  60  75 
,-°i---` . °ad . .{ou z.  
* ~AtWkpam                                                              m
,~~   -  ' .    .  \    Awcams  ^_- ~~~Nangbétoj 
\   c   d  <.JR   X~~Amlamb                                    _                  v 
,'  3iKpalisnb             +~        ~     ~~ B E N I N       
, a, (s X ~~~~~~~~~cimaom5v\i 
`-                            e          Tsévié  S  tMago' L  \-s>  , . ,Hagou
Akosombo                                   ag  Anfoon                -
rl , \ z -_Atho    I            ~ --  * - S



