Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2171 TO
           (Power Rehabilitation and Extension Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 12, 1990
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2171 TO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF
TOGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   by agreement to be entered into between the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the Borrower (such
agreement hereinafter called the CCCE Loan Agreement) CCCE intends
to make a loan (the CCCE Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate
principal amount approximately equivalent to fifteen million Dollars
($15,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
      (C)   the Project will be carried out by Compagnie Energie
Electrique du Togo (CEET) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
Page  2
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CEET
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and CEET;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CEET" means Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo
referred to in the Preamble, a corporation organized under the
laws of Togo pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 63-12, dated
March 20, 1963;
      (b)   "CFAF" means the Franc de la Communaute Financicre
Africaine, the currency of the Borrower;
      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and CEET, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental thereto;
      (d)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to two exchanges of letters, the first dated February 9,
1989 and March 9, 1989, and the second dated April 5, 1990 and
April 12, 1990, each between the Borrower and the Association;
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CEET pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes any schedules thereto.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 11,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (the Special
Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
Page  3
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannu-
al installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, commencing
November 15, 2000 and ending May 15, 2030. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 15, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review, and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
Page  4
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
      Section 2.09. CEET is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall:
(i) cause CEET to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of CEET therein set forth;
(ii) take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable CEET to perform such obligations; and
(iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall: (i) relend a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit equivalent to eleven million five hundred and sixty
thousand Dollars ($11,560,000) to CEET under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CEET, under
terms and conditions approved by the Association which shall
provide, inter alia, that: (A) the proceeds of the Credit shall be
relent at an interest rate of 7.75% per annum for a term of twenty
(20) years, including a five year grace period, and (B) that CEET
shall bear the foreign exchange risk of such onlending; and
(ii) contribute the balance of the proceeds of the Credit to CEET as
an equity contribution.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by CEET pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. On or before January 15, 1991, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   transfer to CEET the ownership of the four 10MW diesel
units of Centrale Thermique de Lome under a sales contract with
CEET, approved by the Association, that shall provide, inter alia,
for: (i) a sales price equal to the value of such units, as deter-
Page  5
mined by a valuation thereof approved by the Association; (ii) pay-
ment of the sales price in installments; and (iii) adjustment to the
sales price or to the schedule of installments to parallel any
forgiveness of any direct or indirect obligation of the Borrower in
respect of the foreign indebtedness incurred to finance the
construction of such units; and
      (b)   enter into a performance contract with CEET, approved by
the Association, setting forth performance targets for CEET through
1992 and providing incentives to CEET for improvement in productivi-
ty.
The Borrower shall comply with its obligations under such contracts,
and shall not amend, waive or otherwise modify any material
provision thereof without the approval of the Association.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by November 30 of each year,
consult with the Association regarding CEET's proposed investment
program for CEET's succeeding fiscal year.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause each government entity
(whether central, local or other), including ministries, public
entities and quasi-public entities: (a) to reduce their arrears due
CEET in accordance with a schedule adopted on or before January 15,
1991 and satisfactory to the Association; (b) to pay all bills
presented by CEET within three months of receipt; and (c) to adopt
annual budgets that adequately provide for their respective
projected annual electricity consumption.
                           ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   CEET shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that CEET will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (c)   (i) the Borrower's Ordinance No. 63-12, dated March 20,
1963, or (ii) the Borrower's Decree No. 63-152, dated December 11,
1963, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CEET
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (d)   the Borrower shall have failed to amend the statutes of
CEET by July 1, 1991, in accordance with the Borrower's public
enterprise reform program, in a manner satisfactory to the Associa-
tion;
      (e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CEET or for the suspension of its operations; and
      (f)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms of the agreement providing there-
                        for; or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity there-
                        of;
Page  6
            (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                  faction of the Association that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Borrower to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are avail-
                        able to the Borrower from other sources on
                        terms and conditions consistent with the
                        obligations of the Borrower under this
                        Agreement.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any of the events specified in paragraph (a) or (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower;
      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraph (c) or (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   any of the events specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (f) (ii) of such Section.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CEET;
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CCCE Loan Agreement have been fulfilled save for the effectiveness
of this Agreement; and
      (c)   the Borrower has submitted an environmental impact
assessment and an action plan to protect the environment during the
Project, both satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
      (a)   the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CEET and is legally binding upon CEET in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and CEET and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and CEET in accordance with its terms.
      Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Page  7
Agreement, the Ministcre de l'Economie et des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre de l'Economie et des
               Finances
            P.O. Box 387
            Lome
            Togo
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIE                    5286
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                        By /s/ Ellom Kodjo Schuppius
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                        Credit Allocated              % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category          SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
Page  8
(1)   Equipment and        1,590,000            100% of foreign
      Vehicles for                              expenditures
      Parts A.7 and
      B.3 (c) of
      the Project
(2)   Equipment,           4,470,000            100% of foreign
      vehicles                                  expenditures
      and related
      installation
      services for
      Part B (other
      than Part B.3
      (c)) of the
      Project
(3)   Consultants'         1,820,000            100%
      services
(4)   Training               680,000            100%
                        Amount of the
                        Credit Allocated              % of
                        (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category          SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(5)   Refunding of         1,140,000            Amount due pur-
      Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
      tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(6)   Unallocated          1,700,000
                          __________
            TOTAL         11,400,000
                          ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, provided
that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be
deemed to be "foreign expenditures."
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of
the Borrower's electricity generation and distribution system, as
managed by CEET.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development of CEET
1.    Completion of the previously initiated institutional study (a)
to define and refine the respective responsibilities of CEET, the
Borrower and Communaute Electrique du Benin; and (b) to provide a
framework for the preparation of the performance contract.
2.    Establishment of an efficient stock management system,
including procurement procedures, for CEET.
Page  9
3.    Formulation of CEET's investment program for the period 1994-
1999 and corresponding adjustment of CEET's tariff structure and
levels.
4.    Development and implementation of a computerized management
information system, and related training of CEET's staff.
5.    Overhaul of CEET's billing system as follows:
      (a)   construction of a laboratory for meter calibration;
      (b)   development of detailed maps to locate each of CEET's
customers and trace the electricity network;
      (c)   identification and codification, through a physical
inventory, of CEET's customers in the Lome area and updating of
CEET's customer files;
      (d)   audit of all customer arrears; and
      (e)   acquisition and implementation of a computerized system
to improve CEET's management of its customer accounts.
6.    Technical, financial and managerial training of CEET's staff.
7.    Acquisition by CEET of office equipment, vehicles and other
equipment for the efficient operation of CEET.
Part B:     Rehabilitation and Extension of Lome Electricity Power
            Supply and Distribution System and Related Studies
1.    Rehabilitation of the electricity power supply system
(including execution of preparatory studies) as follows:
      (a)   Lome A substation: replacement of the existing switch-
gear with technologically superior switchgear;
      (b)   Lome B substation: replacement of the existing switch-
gear with technologically superior switchgear, and the repair and
energizing of two power transformers; and
      (c)   Lome Sicge substation: replacement of existing switch-
gear with switchgears recovered from the Lome A and Lome B sub-
stations.
2.    Installation and operation of a control room to monitor and
control the operation of the Lome area electricity network.
3.    Rehabilitation and extension of the electricity distribution
system (including execution of preparatory studies) as follows:
      (a)   restructuring and reinforcement of the electricity
network in the center of Lome;
      (b)   extension, on the basis of feasibility studies, of
CEET's distribution system to supply areas of Lome not currently
electrified; and
      (c)   acquisition of tools, vehicles and other equipment
necessary for the operation and maintenance of CEET's distribution
system.
4.    Preparation of a distribution master plan to meet the
projected future requirements of Togo's distribution system.
5.   Rehabilitation of gas turbines at the Centrale Thermique de
Lome.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
Page  10
                           SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to one million Dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
Page  11
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to para-
graph 6 (a), (b) or (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
