OFA CIAL
IDOCUMENTS1
CREDIT NUMBER 2171 TO
Project Agreement
(Power Rehabilitation and Extension Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COMPAGNIE ENERGIE ELECTRIQUE DU TOGO
Dated                        ,1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2171 TO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      m k         /2       , 1990, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)   and
COMPAGNIE ENERGIE ELECTRIQUE DU TOGO (CEET).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement (the
Development Credit Agreement) of even date herewith between the
Republic of Togo (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eleven million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,400,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that CEET agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CEET, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent to CEET
on the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary loan
agreement; and
WHEREAS CEET, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CEET declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and power utility practices,


﻿-2-
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. CEET shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. CEET shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, CEET shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CEET shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   CEET shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by CEET of its obligations under this
Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CEET
Section 3.01. CEET shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, commercial,
financial and power utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CEET shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time


﻿-3-
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
power utility practices.
Section 3.03. CEET shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. By January 15, 1991, CEET shall: (a) enter into
the sales contract referred to in Section 3.04(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement and acquire pursuant thereto the ownership of the
four 10MW diesel units of Centrale Thermique de Lom6 provided for
therein; and (b) enter into the performance contract descr4bed in
Section 3.04(b) of the Development Credit Agreement. CEEL shall
comply with its obligations under such contracts and shall not
amend, waive or otherwise modify any material provision thereof
without the approval of the Association.
Section 3.05. CEET shall: (a) by November 30 of each year,
consult with the Association regarding its proposed investment
program for its following fiscal year; (b) not make any investment
in an amount equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) or more
without the approval of the Association; and (c) adopt by July 1,
1991 staff rules and regulations satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. CEET shall take all reasonable actions to ensure
that its customers pay their bills within three months of receipt,
including terminating service for any client with arrears overdue
by more than 60 calendar days.
Section 3.07. CEET shall pay each bill received from
Communaut6 Electrique du B6nin within three months of receipt,
unless CEET shall have a reasonable basis for contesting such bill
and is proceeding with such contest.
Section 3.08. CEET shall promptly carry out the action plan
referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CEET shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   CEET shall:
(i)   have its records (including those for the Special
Account), accounts and finanzial statements
(balance  sheets,  statements  of   income  and
expenses, and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall hare reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, CEET shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-5-
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, CEET shall earn, for each of the following fiscal years, an
annual return as a percentage of the average current net value of
CEET's fixed assets in operation as follows: (i) for CEET's fiscal
year ending in 1990, at least 3.5%; (ii) for CEET's fiscal years
ending in 1991 and 1992, at least 4%; and (iii) for CEET's fiscal
years ending in 1993 or thereafter, at least 6%.
(b)   Before December 15 in each of its fiscal years, CEET
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by CEET and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that CEET would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for CEET's fiscal years
covered by such review, CEEZ shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such require-
ments.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
CEET's net operating income for the fiscal year
in question by one half of the sum of the current
net value of CEET's fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii) The term "net operating income" means total
operating revenues less total operating expenses.


﻿6-
(iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations.
(iv) The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses   related  to   operations,   including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
of not less than 4% per annum of the average
current gross value of CEET's fixed assets in
operation, or other basis acceptable to the
Association, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
(v)   The average current gross value of CEET's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one
half of the sum of the gross value of CEET' s fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the
end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
(vi) The term "current net value of CEET' s fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of CEET's
fixed assets in operation less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, CEET shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of CEET shows that the estimated
net revenues of CEET for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least one and a half (1-1/2) times
the estimated debt service requirements of CEET in such year on all
debt of CEET including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CEET
maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-7-
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for
the modification of its terms of payment on
the date of such contract, agreement or
instrument; and
(B)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations and net non-operating income;
and
(B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
tions including administration, adequate
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, but excluding provision for deprecia-
tion, other non-cash operating charges and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any), and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by CEET not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,


﻿-8-
which both the Association and CEET accept as
reasonable and as to which the Association has
notified CEET of its acceptability, provided that
no event has occurred since such notification
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
future to have, a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or future operating results
of CEET.
(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of CEET hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; and
(ii) the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CEET
of this event.


﻿-9-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
uhen it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For CEET:
10, avenue du Golfe
B.P. 42
Lomd
Togo
Cable address:            Telex:
CEET                   5230
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:           Telex:
INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CEET or by CEET on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Director General of CEET or such other person or persons as the
Director General of CEET shall designate in writing, and CEET shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /4/ E(Wu)t ''
Regional Vice President
Africa
COMPAGNIE ENERGIE ELECTRIQUE DU TOGO
By               At     zd    psti


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and. Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awardad in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
Items or groups of items for equipment and vehicles estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 per contract up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified.to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract, together with the other information required to be


﻿- 12 -
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provision of the preceding subpragraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has autho-
rized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. EmployMent of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


