           Document of
         The World Bank


                                   Report No: 55423 v1




      RESTRUCTURING PAPER

              ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
            OF THE

ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT
     CREDIT NUMBER 3951 BEN
           JUNE 7, 2004

            AND THE
  ADDITIONAL FINANCING OF THE
ENERGY SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT
     CREDIT NUMBER 4492-BJ
           JULY 3, 2008

             TO THE

       REPUBLIC OF BENIN

           June 30, 2010
                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ESDP   Energy Services Delivery Project
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
RVP    Regional Vice President




          Regional Vice President:        Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                 Country Director:        Madani M. Tall
         Sector Manager / Director:       Subramaniam V. Iyer
                Task Team Leader:         Fanny Kathinka Missfeldt-Ringius

                                      2
                                         Annex 3

                                        BENIN --

                                      P079633
                              CREDIT NUMBER 3951 BEN

                                      P111019
                               CREDIT NUMBER 4492-BJ

                                  Restructuring Paper

1.     The closing date for Benin, Energy Services Delivery Project (ESDP), Credit
Number 3951 BEN, P079633, and Benin, Additional Financing for the Energy Services
Delivery Project (ESDP), Credit Number 4492-BJ, P111019, will be extended from 30
June 2010 until 31 December 2011.

2.       The project's implementation progress has been rated marginally satisfactory with
the key investment components foreseen under the project, which account for 58 percent
of the project's financing, accomplished: the northern Togo - northern Benin transmission
line is complete and fully operational barring a few minor technical issues that are being
addressed by the contractor. The rehabilitation and expansion measures, which were to
enhance electricity supply in Cotonou and Porto Novo, are also complete. Under all other
components, important milestones have also been achieved. Thus the Project
Development Objectives remain achievable, with a few of the objectives already met.
Progress towards the Project Development Objective is rated as satisfactory. The
implementing entities are compliant with the World Bank's financial management
requirements and there are no overdue audit reports and interim financial reports from
these entities. In June 2010, 72 percent of the financing of the ESDP was disbursed, while
for the ESDP's additional financing 9 percent were disbursed. This leaves SDR 8.6
million and 3.8 million to be disbursed over the extended period of the project.

3.      Despite this progress, there is a small number of key works and studies that are
delayed and will extend beyond the closing date of 30 June 2010. Moreover, the biomass
component, for which 13 percent of the project's resources were earmarked, has been
delayed. Among the causes for the overall delay are: (i) the underestimation of the
complexity for the implementation of some components, especially the biomass
component (e.g. setting up of institutional framework); and (ii) inadequate responsiveness
of the Ministry of Finance in allowing for contracts to be processed in a timely manner
and lack of counterpart financing.

4.     On February 1, 2010, the Borrower requested an extension of the project closing
date until December 31, 2011, to allow for completion of these activities. Since receipt of
the Borrower's request extensive discussions on an Action Plan have been undertaken,
including through a number of video conferences and a mission undertaken from 3 to 14
May 2010. The agreed Action Plan is enclosed. It spells out both actions that will

                                             3
enhance implementation as well as sets a timetable on how actions will be implemented
within the new timeframe of the project. One of the key barriers to swift implementation
of the project has been the delay of contract processing at the level of the Ministry of
Finance and Economy. During the last supervision mission, the Borrower committed to
endorsing a more streamlined processing procedure for the project at the level of the
Ministry of Finance and Economy to be adopted by the Council of Ministers, which will
aid the implementation of the Action Plan. We consider that some activities of the project
might nevertheless need to be restructured. Further, the Government also requested a
reallocation of funds across categories. This reallocation will be undertaken once final
information on fund commitments has been received.

5.     This is the second extension for the ESDP, with an original closing date of
December 31, 2008, but the first extension for the additional financing, with an original
closing date of June 30, 2010. For purposes of simplification, both extensions are
requested jointly. For the ESDP, this extension spans over a period exceeding two years,
which requires clearance from the Regional Vice President (RVP).




                                            4
