Report No. 1560a-IND                                                                                  copy
Appraisal of a
Teacher Training Project Indonesia
May 2, 1977
Education Projects Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USS1          =           Rp 415
Rp 1          =           US$0.0024
Rp 1 million  =           US$2,410
Rp 1 billion  =           US$2,410,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
Bappenas       -    National Planning Agency
BP3K           -    Office of Educational and Cultural Research and Develop-
ment, MOE
College        -    Secondary Teacher Training College (IKIP),
University Faculty of Education (FIP), and
University Faculty of Teacher Training (FKg)
INPRES         -    A local public work program including inter alia
primary schools.
Institute      -    Primary Teacher Training Institute (Includes SPG and
SGPLB, grades 10-12 and 13 respectively).
MOE             -    Ministry of Education and Culture.
PGSLP          -    Temporary one year course (grade 13) at College to
prepare lower secondary teachers.
Repelita       -    National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84).
Sarjana        -    Masters Degree (5 years after secondary education).
Sarjana Muda   -    Bachelors Degree (3 years after secondary education).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION  ...................................                         i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  * **  **  **  **  **  ,*  *......................  . .......  . .  1
II.    THE EDUCATION SECTOR  ............ .......................                        2
Primary Education  ......  ........ ........ .  .o.                       2
Secondary Education  ....... . . .   ....................... ..  .       4
Teacher Education  .................. ......... ..                        5
Primary Teacher Training  (Institutes)  .........                         5
Secondary Teacher Training  (Colleges)  .........o.                       7
Finance  so  ............... ........... o   .......... .o..o             8
Government Programs and Plans  ...........o.......                        9
III.    THE PROJECT   .           .... ..................... .... .                      12
Objectives ... .....0........ ................                          12
Project Scope  .....            .........*  ............                12
Project Design and Phasing               .     ....................     13
IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND IMPLEMENTATION C..TC TT........o......                        17
Cost  o..oo.......      so......o..................................     17
Project Financing  .. .................                                 19
Procurement  ...............06..........a..... . .                      21
Disbursements            ....................           ........        21
V.    BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION,  AND RISKS  ..................                        22
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED  ............ oo.  .... ..                   .......         24
APPENDIX:
I     Bank Assistance  in Education
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
I       Comparative Education Indicators
2       Trends in Key Educational Demographic Indicators,
1971-2000
3       Age and Sex Distribution and Progression Rates by Grade, 1974
4       Qualifications of Primary and Lower Secondary Teachers
by Province and Region, 1974
5       Institute and Senior High School Staff -
Qualification, Region and Age Distribution, 1974
6       Relationships Between Teacher Education Institutions, 1976
7       The Government's Proposed Program of Consolidation and
Expansion of Public Primary Teacher Training Institutes                  *
8       Secondary Teacher Education Enrollments, 1974
9       Educational Costs and Unit Costs by Level, 1974
10       Schematic Project Design and Time Table
11       Scope and Sequence of a Study of Status and
Deployment of Teachers
12       Technical Assistance
13       Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
14       Contingency Allowances
15       Organization of Project Management
16       Forecast of Disbursements
CHARTS
8385       Structure of the Education and Training System
LIST OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS AND MAPS



INDONESIA
BASIC DATA 1/
(1974 unless otherwise noted)
General                                                           Amount
Area                                                       1,905,000 km
Population:   Total (Bank est. 1975)                          136 million
Average Annual Growth Rate (1970-75)           2.6%       2
Density (Bank est. 1975)                        71 per km
School Age (Govt. est. for 1976)
Primary (ages 7-12)                      22.3 million
Lower Secondary (ages 13-15)              9.7 million
Upper Secondary (ages 16-18)              8.7 million
Enrollment (All types of schools)
Amounts:      Primary School (grades 1-6)                    17.3 million
Secondary Schools (grades 7-12)                 3.2 million
Gross   Net
Ratios:  2/  Primary (grades 1-6, ages 7-12)                   79%    60%
Lower Secondary (grades 7-9, ages 13-15)         26%    16%
Upper Secondary (grades 10-12, ages 16-18)    12%        8%
Higher Education                                  2%     -
Finance
GNP/Capita                                          (1976)      220 US$
Public Education Expenditure as fraction of GNP (1975)           3.9%
Fraction of Public Expenditure devoted to Education (1975)  11.0%
Secondary
Primary  Lower  Upper
Total Education Costs (US$ millions):
Recurrent                                           335      128    102
Capital                                             132      796     43
Unit Education Costs (US$):
Recurrent (per pupil)                                19       58    110
Capital (per place)                                 120      930  1,130
Average Teacher Salaries:
Annual amount                                       390      480    830
As a multiple of GNP per Capita (US$154 in 1974) 2.5         3.1    5.4
1/   See Annex 1 for comparative education indicators.
2/   Gross includes over-age students; net excludes over-age students.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a fifth education project in
Indonesia for which a loan of US$19 million is proposed. The first education
project, IDA Credit 219-IND (1970), aimed at improving technical education by
financing centralized workshops and has been successfully completed. The
objective of the second project, Credit 288-IND (1972), is to upgrade middle
level agricultural training. IDA Credit 387-IND (1973) is providing 138 mil-
lion textbooks and in-service training for primary education. Loan 1237-IND
(1976) addresses technical/vocational and civil service training.
ii.       The Government is committed to increasing educational opportunities
and to improving the quality of education. A total of 7.4 million new ele-
mentary school places are being created with the goal of providing universal
elementary education. The Government has taken three major steps to improve
quality: (i) new curricula have been developed for all levels; (ii) textbooks
provided under the third education project are being distributed to support the
new curricula; and (iii) facilities have been improved at both the primary and
at the secondary levels. A fourth area crucial to improved learning achieve-
ments - that of the quality of teaching - has received inadequate attention.
The Government plans to consolidate and expand the present uneconomic system
of primary teacher training to meet the projected heavy demand for teachers
over the next decade. This consolidation program provides an opportunity to
train a large new supply of teachers in new curricula, teaching methods and
materials. However, substantial improvements are required in primary and
secondary teacher training to gain the full benefit of this teacher increase.
iii.      The principal objective of the proposed project is to produce better
trained teachers by improving the knowledge and teaching skills of graduates
from teacher training institutions. The proposed project includes inter-
related components which would:
(a) revise teacher training programs in accordance with new
school curricula and more effective teaching methods;
(b) develop, produce and distribute related instructional
materials in the national language;
(c) retrain about 7,000 teacher educators in new curricula
and teaching methods;
(d) provide specialized facilities (libraries, laboratories,
workshops and practice teaching rooms) at 15 secondary
teacher training colleges and 54 primary teacher training
institutes, and equipment for an additional 14 primary
teacher training institutes; and



- ii -
(e) develop improved selection procedures for prospective teachers
and analyze basic problems affecting teacher utilization
in schools.
The project would focus on improving the quality of the training and would be
closely coordinated with parallel actions by the Government to consolidate and
expand teacher training institutions.
iv.       Under the project a team of 40 Indonesian educators would be selected
and trained abroad to lead each project activity throughout implementation.
A project monitoring system would be established under the project and would be
used to adjust the implementation program and schedule following a trial phase
two years after loan signing.
v.        The total project cost is estimated at US$42.8 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$19 million or about 44% of the total cost.
The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange component. Up to
US$300,000 would be financed retroactively for expenditures of professional
services, expert services and fellowships incurred between November 1, 1976
and loan signing.
vi.       The proposed project and the parallel consolidation program would
be managed by the Teacher Training Division of the Ministry of Education
using similar procedures and the same staff strengthened in numbers. Con-
sultant architect firms would design the specialized teacher training facil-
ities and assist with the procurement of furniture. An agency abroad would
be contracted to administer and coordinate the training of the 40 Indonesian
educators.
vii.      Contracts for all civil works, and for equipment and furniture
packages under US$50,000 equivalent, would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding. Foreign firms would be allowed to bid. Equipment and
furniture packages over US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding with local manufacturers being allowed a
preferential margin of 15% or the customs duties whichever is the lower.
Miscellaneous items in packages not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent subject
to an aggregate total of US$300,000 equivalent could be purchased on the
basis of at least three price quotations.
viii.     The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
$19 million equivalent to the Government of Indonesia for a term of 20 years
including a four and one half year grace period.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report covers the appraisal of a project on teacher training
which would be the fifth education project in Indonesia. The first, second
and fourth projects are directed at developing skilled manpower while the
third project is designed to improve the quality of primary education. Credit
219-IND (1970 - US$4.6 million equivalent) financed the construction of five
centralized workshops (TTCs) to strengthen vocational training at 14 senior
technical high schools. The project was completed ahead of schedule and the
facilities were occupied in early 1976. Credit 288-IND (US$6.3 million
equivalent) aims at improving middle-level agricultural training and is being
completed satisfactorily. Construction has been finished at twenty-six of
twenty seven project institutions. Credit 387-IND (1973 - US$13.5 million
equivalent) is contributing toward an improvement of basic education through
testing, production and distribution of 138 million primary school textbooks,
and short-term in-service training for 350,000 teachers in their use. Some 31
million textbooks have been produced and distributed thus far; in-service
teacher training is proceeding on schedule. Loan 1237-IND (1976-US$41 million
equivalent) addresses technical, vocational and civil service training.
Implementation began in June 1976 and, except for the Ministry of Manpower
component, is also proceeding on schedule. These projects are described in
further detail in Appendix 1.
1.02      The Government undertook a comprehensive National Assessment Study
on Education between 1969-73 with the assistance of the Ford Foundation. A
Bank education sector survey in November/December 1973 1/ reviewed the find-
ings of the Assessment and identified, inter alia, the priority need for
improvements in teacher training. The sector survey recommended an invest-
ment in primary teacher training because of the need to (a) improve the way
teachers are trained, (b) increase the average size of training institutes
for improved economy, and (c) achieve a better balance between supply and
demand by region. The Office of Educational and Cultural Research and Devel-
opment (BP3K) of the Ministry of Education and Culture subsequently undertook
a pre-investment study on teacher training (November 1975). The Government
suggested during preappraisal and the Bank agreed that external resources
should be concentrated on the more difficult task of improving the quality
of teacher training. The Government intended to devote its resources to
expansion of enrollments where outside assistance is less crucial. On this
basis the BP3K prepared the project in June 1976 with Unesco assistance. The
IBRD appraisal mission in November 1976 2/ agreed with the Government on some
1/   IBRD Report No. 433-IND, "Indonesia Education Sector Survey Report"
February 5, 1975.
2/   Messrs. 0. Bergman (educator and mission leader), F. Farner (general edu-
cator), W. Haddad (teacher training specialist) and A. Stam (architect).



- 2 -
changes in the project. These included: consolidation of pre-service and
in-service facilities at College level; increase in the number of Colleges
included from eight to 15 to ensure better geographical balance; deletion
from the construction program of 14 Institutes for which only minor additions
to facilities were proposed; and rescheduling of training to allow the facil-
ities' being constructed under the project to be used in the training com-
ponent of the project.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
2.01      The formal system of education in Indonesia consists of a six-
year primary school cycle, lower and upper secondary cycles of three years
each, and post-secondary education ranging from three to six years. Notable
characteristics of the structure are its fragmentation into many types of
schools at the secondary level and a parallel system of religious schools
(Chart 8385). Presidential Decree No. 34 of 1972 helped clarify respon-
sibility for educational administration and eliminate duplication of efforts
by giving the Ministry of Education legal authority over all education and
training. The discussion below is limited to the following components of the
education system: primary and secondary education and related teacher training.
A more comprehensive treatment is presented in the education sector survey
report of February 1975.
2.02      The Government is committed to increasing educational opportunities
and to improving the quality of education. A total of 7.4 million new ele-
mentary school places are being created with the ultimate goal of providing
universal elementary education. To improve quality, the Government has taken
steps on three fronts: (i) new curricula have been developed for all levels;
(ii) textbooks provided under the third education project have been distributed
to support the new curricula; and (iii) physical facilities have been improved
at both the primary and at the secondary levels. A fourth area crucial to
improved learning achievements - the quality of teaching - has received
inadequate attention. The Government plans to consolidate and expand the
present uneconomic system of primary teacher training to meet the projected
demand for teachers over the next decade. This consolidation program provides
an opportunity to train a large new supply of teachers in new curricula,
teaching methods and materials. However, substantial improvements are required
in primary and secondary teacher training to gain the full benefit of this
teacher increase.
Primary Education
2.03      In 1974, primary education (grades 1-6) was offered to 17 million
pupils in nearly 100,000 schools:
Enrollment (millions)          Schools (thousands)
General  Religious Total    General  Religious  Total
Public            11.2       0.7     11.9       56.1       0.6      56.7
Non-Public         2.1       3.3      5.4       21.2      20.7      41.9
Total            13.3       4.0     17.3       77.3      21.3      98.6



- 3 -
General schools are supervised professionally by the Ministry of Education,
although the Ministry of Home Affairs pays teacher salaries and controls the
buildings. Religious schools are administered by the Ministry of Religious
Affairs.
2.04      Primary school enrollments in 1974 averaged 79% of the school age
population (Annex 1 and 2), ranging from 38% in West Nusatenggara to 92% in
West Sumatra. Females comprised about 45%, a ratio which remains steady
throughout the six-year cycle (Annex 3). The typical primary school has
150-200 students with one class at each grade level and six to eight teachers.
The countrywide student-teacher ratio is 30.  Repetition, which at 17% is
highest in grade 1, tends to swell lower grades, while dropout rates averaging
12% p.a. result in small classes at the upper grades 1/. About one-fourth of
the primary schools are used in two shifts.
2.05      There were a total of 573,000 teachers in 1974 of which 444,000
were in general schools. Less than 45% of the teachers have the most suit-
able form of training, either Institute (SPG) or the equivalent or a higher
degree in education. In some outlying provinces the percentage is as low as
20% (Annex 4). Primary school teacher salaries have until recently averaged
about US$400 per year including allowances 2/, less than twice the per capita
GNP of US$220 and lower than in any other country in East Asia (Annex 1). Many
teachers were forced to seek additional income to supplement their salary and
thus were unable to devote their full time to teaching in one school. This
situation should improve in the future as a result of substantial salary
increases that became effective in May 1977.
2.06      Curriculum content emphasizes reading, social studies, mathematics,
science and national culture 3/.  Subjects and materials often have not
been adapted to reflect local or regional conditions. The school day tends
to be short, often under three hours in the lower grades, with the result
that required subjects cannot be taught adequately. Equipment and materials
1/   For instance, the average class size in grade 1 is 38, with a spread
of 22 to 53 students in different provinces. In grade 6, the average
is 22, ranging from 16 to 35 students.
2/   All Government employees receive allowances for such items as rice,
sugar, shoes and for dependents.
3/   Six vernaculars--Javanese, Sundanese, Makassarese, Batak, Madurese
and Balinese are used as mediums of instruction in grades 1-3 in areas
where these languages are spoken. Bahasa-Indonesia is used in all
other areas and is the only medium used beyond grade 3. Moreover, in
grades 1-3, Bahasa-Indonesia is universally taught as a future medium
of oral and written instruction. All textbooks other than those used
for foreign language teaching are in Bahasa-Indonesia. Percentage
distribution of major first languages: Javanese, 43.1%; Sundanese,
12.7%; Indonesian-Malay, 11.5%; Madurese, 5.8%. Sixteen languages
have over 750,000 speakers as a first language and the total number
of languages spoken is over 200.



are usually not available or are improperly used. Classes are typically taught
as a single group at the same pace with little attention to the learning needs
of individual students. Moreover, teaching methods require only that students
receive, copy and memorize by rote-methods information supplied by the teacher.
2.07      The teaching methods tend to be inefficient, ineffective and do
not develop the analytical abilities of students. In particular, the tradi-
tional teaching practices have the following undesirable consequences:
(a) They waste student and teacher time through excessive
repetition and copying.
(b) They result in low learning achievements. A recent study
found that only half of the students learned more than
one third of the language arts content in grade 5 1/. Only
40% of the students who start grade 1 successfully complete
grade 6.
(c) They seldom require students to analyze or learn to solve
problems.
Improvement could be achieved through better teacher training.
Secondary Education
2.08      Secondary education is conducted in two cycles:  lower secondary
(grades 7-9) and upper secondary (grades 10-12). The general/religious and
public/non-public categories exist at this level also. Total enrollment
in 1974 was 3.2 million, about equally divided between public and non-public
schools with 77% in the general category. Total enrollment comprised 2.2
million or 24% of the age group at the lower level and about 1.0 million
or 12% at the upper level. Females accounted for 41% of the students at
the lower and 35% at the upper secondary cycles, with provincial variation
ranging from 28%-50% at the lower level and 18%-24% at the upper level.
2.09      Secondary schools are generally small, over half with fewer than
200 students and only 6% with enrollments of over 400. Nationwide, the
pupil/teacher ratio is low, 17 in the lower cycle and 12 in the upper
cycle. As a result, teacher loads average 16 hours per week; teacher compe-
tency is being used inefficiently, and recurrent and capital costs are in-
creased. If ratios of 25 (lower) and 20 (upper) could be attained,recurrent
costs could be reduced by about 35%.
1/   The Government's target was for half of the students able to answer
70% of the items. In a recent study, half of the students could
answer only an average of 35% of the items. Details for sub-tests were:
grammar, 32%; comprehension, 39%; dictation, 45%; composition, 24%;
vocabulary, 42%; and spelling, 39%.



- 5 -
2.10      There were 80,000 general secondary school teachers in 1974 at the
lower level and 25,000 at the upper level, less than one-quarter of whom were
women. Many teachers were part-time: 37% in the lower cycle and 51% in the
upper. At the upper secondary level 80% of teachers held a university level
degree (Annex 5). However, in the lower cycle, one third of the teachers had
upper secondary schooling (grade 12) and no teacher training (Annex 4). The
Government recently introduced a one-year intensive course (PGSLP) to provide
basic preparation for teaching and presently 40% of lower cycle teachers have
PGSLP training.
2.11      The curriculum of the lower secondary school includes broad sub-
ject areas such as science, social science and language. At the upper level,
general schools are divided into two streams: mathematics and science (46%)
and social and cultural studies (54%). At least ten subjects are included in
each stream, although the smaller schools cannot always afford teachers for
all subjects. The ineffective methods of primary school teaching (paras
2.06-2.07) are continued at the secondary level.  Students are not required to
become actively engaged in learning, needing only to listen to lectures and
copy from the blackboard or books and pass recall examinations.  Independent
thinking is not sought. Students seldom undertake individual or group proj-
ects. In a recent poll, one-fourth of secondary teachers said they never used
class discussions; half reported they never assigned special projects; and half
said they never gave library assignments. Although students seem to pass
through the system efficiently (1974 figures show average of 4% repetition, 9%
dropout and 88% graduation) (Annex 3), there are no available data on how well
prepared graduates are to cope with individual and community problems at the
completion of their schooling.
Teacher Education
2.12      Teacher education is given by the Ministry of Education as follows:
Pre-Service                     In-Service
Grades                            Duration
Primary  : Institutes (SPG)         10-12   Third Education Project  3 weeks
(Mobile Teams)
Secondary:  Colleges (IKIP)                 Training Centers at        6 weeks
One-year Intensive              Colleges (BPG)
Course (PGSLP)        13
Sarjana Muda (BA)   13-15
Sarjana (MA)         16-17
The interrelationship among these institutions is shown in Annex 6.
Primary Teacher Training (Institutes)
2.13      A total of 458 Institutes were operating in 1974 of which 45% were
public. Public Institutes enroll 60% of the students. Institutes were
small with an average enrollment of 170; only 7% had enrollments over 400.



- 6 -
As a result, the student/teacher ratio was low, about 10 although the aver-
age class size was 30, reflecting an average teacher load of only 15 hours per
week.
2.14      The 205 public Institutes enrolled about 55,000 trainees in 1974
with an annual output of about 15,000. Females comprise about 60% of enroll-
ment. Enrollment and output were unevenly distributed by province in relation
to primary age groups. In eight provinces, Institute capacity was less than
half of long-term needs, while in two provinces capacity exceeded need by over
50% (Annex 7). This has led to an uneven distribution of qualified teachers
in primary schools (para 2.05). Supply and demand have been poorly coordi-
nated. An employment freeze for the civil service was imposed from 1968 to
1974 without immediate reduction of teacher training enrollment. As a result,
by 1976 there was a surplus of about 68,000 newly graduated primary school
teachers, and it often took three years for teachers to find jobs. Institute
outputs reflected this lack of opportunity, gradually declining from about
25,000 in 1971 to less than 15,000 in 1974, far below the 25,000 p.a. require-
ment estimated for enrollment growth and attrition.
2.15      Students usually enter Institutes directly after graduation from
junior secondary schools. The Institutes have not been able to attract the
most able students mainly because: (a) secondary schools offer more possi-
bilities for further education; (b) employment after graduation has been
uncertain; and (c) primary teacher salaries have been low. There is a sub-
stantial dropout rate: about 27 of every 100 who enter training leave before
graduation (Annex 3).
2.16      In 1974, there were 3,800 teachers in the public Institutes of
whom 1,060 were part-time 1/. Only 69% were considered qualified, the 9% who
held a Master's (Sarjana) degree and the 60% who had a Bachelor's (Sarjana
Muda) degree, compared with 80% for academic high school teachers (Annex 5).
Institute teachers are often assigned to teach subjects which are unrelated
to their fields of specialization 2/, a factor related to the small average
size of the Institutes. In addition, Institute staff often lack tra:Lning in
modern methods of teaching; only 25% have ever taught in primary schools.
2.17      Subject matter study takes 75% of the available time.  Another 15%
is reserved for study of religion and national culture. Only 10% of the time
remains for teaching methods and practical teacher training. Subjects are
taught by lecture and note-taking methods, as in general upper secondary
schools (para 2.11). Graduates of upper secondary schools themselves, Insti-
tute teachers emphasize theory over practice. They tend to lecture about
1/   Most part-time staff teach less than 10 hours per week compared to
an average of about 15 for full-time staff.
2/   For example, only 24% of Institute teachers of mathematics have
diplomas in that subject. The comparable figure for science is
47%, while for social studies it is 79% and for physical education
91%.



-7-
teaching methods, rather than demonstrating and using them. Students observe
teaching sessions without relating their observations to the theories under
discussion. Practice teaching is unstructured; objectives are seldom speci-
fied, and little effort is made to provide evaluation of performance in prac-
tice teaching so students and teachers can learn to improve performance. In
short, Institute teachers were educated as lecturers and have been unable
to translate modern educational objectives into practical skills.
2.18      Some Institutes are located on small overcrowded sites without space
for expansion. Their old and poorly maintained buildings are used primarily
as general classrooms, offices and communal facilities. Most Institutes lack
science laboratories and libraries, and all lack multi-purpose workshops for
preparation of instructional materials. Supplies of instructional materials,
books and audio-visual equipment tend to be inadequate.
Secondary Teacher Training (Colleges)
2.19      There are eleven public Teacher Training Colleges (IKIP) with an
enrollment of 27,000 and 22 private Colleges with a total enrollment of
14,000 (Annex 8). In addition, 12 universities give teacher training both
through faculties of education (FIP) which offer education courses only,
and through faculties of teacher training (KFg) which give both education
and subject matter courses. Teacher Training College (IKIP) students con-
stitute about 23% of the total in higher education and students in university
faculties of education and training account for another 5%. Each College
(IKIP) has five faculties: Education, Science Teaching, Technology Teaching,
Social Science Teaching, and Arts and Letters Teaching. Each faculty is
further divided into subject departments which have strong influence over
student study choices and detailed graduation requirements.
2.20      Most College (IKIP) entrants come directly from secondary schools.
They represent a lower socio-economic background than that of the typical
university student. About half of the College (IKIP) students come from rural
backgrounds.
Employment of Parents:  Gov't Employees    Farmers   Others
Colleges (IKIP)         30%              48%       22%
Universities            39%              18%       43%
2.21      Colleges prepare teachers for the two cycles of secondary schools
and for primary teacher training (Institutes). Two degrees are given:
Sarjana Muda (3 years of study) and Sarjana (2 additional years). The annual
output of public Colleges, about 3,000 Sarjana Muda holders and 600 Sarjana
holders, corresponds to only 11% of total enrollment compared with an optimum
of about 25%. 1/ Thirty-two percent of the students are enrolled in social
1/   The low output results from repetition and dropout and third-year
delays, when a major writing assignment is required. Delays also
are caused throughout by lack of Indonesian language books in
essential subjects.



- 8 -
sciences and twenty percent in education (Annex 8), out of proportion with
the demand and with curriculum requirements of the schools and Institutes.
Only about half of the graduates go into teaching.
2.22      Of the 3,000 teachers at the Teacher Training Colleges, about 80%
hold a Master's (Sarjana) degree. However, they have had little experience
in teaching outside Colleges. In some cases, 85% of the staff are graduates
of the College in which they teach.
2.23      College curricula are heavily oriented towards one specialized
field of study. Eighty percent of the study requirements are in the student's
subject department (65%) and in related subjects (15%). Twenty percent
remains for education courses, including specialized teaching methods, and
these are geared to upper secondary school teaching 1/. This specialization
is inappropriate because lower secondary schools and Institutes require a
broad approach to a number of fields (para 2.11).
2.24      College facilities vary in standard but laboratories and workshops
for sciences tend to be underequipped. There are no special facilities for
observation of teaching, and there are virtually no laboratories for teaching
methods in science or social studies, no workshops for the development of
instructional materials and audio-visual media. Libraries vary in size and
quality but in general are inadequate with few books in the national language
in which all teaching is conducted.
2.25      In summary, Colleges are neither staffed nor equipped adequately
to train teachers in modern teaching methods. College teachers use the
practices of lecturing and note taking by which they were educated. Con-
sequently, their students in turn perpetuate these practices in secondary
school classrooms. As in Institutes, College teachers do not use observation
and practice teaching sessions as teaching devices to illustrate theories under
discussion.
Finance
2.26      Annual average teacher salaries in 1974 were:  primary, US$387;
lower secondary, US$478; and upper secondary, US$833, including the customary
allowances. The salaries are exceptionally low in relation to per capita GNP
in developing countries (para 2.05). Most teachers have supplemented their
salaries by (1) employment in second and even third teaching positions; (2)
other employment; (3) farm income; and (4) earnings of spouse and other family
members. Effective May 31, 1977 the Government has substantially increased
salaries of primary and secondary level teachers.
1/   Requirements for Sarjana Muda (120 credit hours) are approximately as
follows: Core education courses, 14; Major in one subject, 78;
Courses in related subject matter, 20; Specialized methods, 2; and
Practice teaching, 6.



- 9 -
2.27      Recurrent costs of teacher education in 1974 were about one tenth
of general public education costs at each level. Institute costs were about
US$6 million, 11% of upper secondary recurrent costs. College 1/ costs
were US$5 million, 25% of public higher education costs; however, only about
half of the graduates of Colleges entered teaching.
Government Programs and Plans
2.28      Enrollments and Construction.  The Government has embarked on a major
school construction program which aims by 1979 to have added a total of 7.4
million primary school places. The program (part of a larger public works
program known as INPRES) began under Repelita I and is being continued under
Repelita II 2/.  As a result of this program, the average standard of schools
will be substantially upgraded; a third of all classrooms will be less than
five years old by the end of Repelita II.
2.29      The primary school age population is projected to increase from
21 million in 1974 to 25 million in 1984 and to over 36 million at the end
of the century (Annex 2). The INPRES program aims not only to keep pace with
the ever-expanding school population but also to achieve geographic equity
and to decrease dropout and repeater rates, with the goal of approaching uni-
versal grade 1 enrollment by 1984. (Schools outside the Ministry of Education
are expected to provide for about 15% of the age group. See Annex 2). Geo-
graphic equity is ambitious, particularly in the provinces where enrollment
ratios are now lowest (para 2.04). The number of secondary school youth is
expected to increase from 17 million in 1974 to over 22 million in 1984, and
to nearly 30 million by the year 2000. Enrollment in general secondary schools
is projected to nearly double by 1984, reaching 4.5 million. This growth would
be concentrated in the lower cycle to receive graduates of the expanded
primary system (Annex 2).
2.30      Curricula.  The issue of improved educational quality was raised
in the National Assessment Study (para 1.02) and quality improvement was
adopted as an objective of Repelita II. The Government is determined 3/ that
education should be: (a) effective and relevant to individual and societal
needs; (b) a basis for lifelong education; and (c) efficient, realistic, and
consistent with the resources and capabilities of the Indonesian Government,
society, and people. To achieve these goals, new curricula were adopted in
1975 which call for more effective teaching methods. Under the new curricula
the relationship between the student and teacher will be redefined to make the
student a more active participant in the learning process; he or she would
learn from his or her own inquiry and group discussions. Curricula reform
1/   Including FIP and FKg.
2/   About 2.6 million places had been added by 1976 and another 5.8 million
are projected by 1979.
3/   Ministry of Education and Culture Decree No. 41, 1974.



- 10 -
added a variety of pertinent topics to the traditional focus on Indonesian
language, mathematics, science and social studies. The new courses include
subjects considered important to national and regional development such as
health, demography, hygiene, economics and commerce. The content is, however,
only little more than a rearrangement of old materials, and still needs further
improvement to make it relevant to Indonesian conditions. Introduction of the
1975 Curricula is being impeded by insufficient understanding of the objectives
and content of the 1975 curricula among new and existing teachers.
2.31      Books.  Textbooks for primary schools are being developed, produced
and distributed in the Third Education Project (Cr. 387-IND). About 31 mil-
lion textbooks have been distributed thus far, with a total of 138 million to
be achieved by 1981 (para. 1.01). The project appears to be succeeding in
getting textbooks to the school. However, some problems are being encountered
in relating materials to the 1975 Curricula and in achieving effective class-
room use of the textbooks.
2.32      In-Service Teacher Training.  Effective application of the new
curricula and proper use of the new materials and facilities require major
efforts to retrain teachers. The Third Education Project has been designed to
retrain all primary school teachers in textbook usage over a six-year period.
With 120 provincial mobile teams staffed by 1,200 members, mostly Institute
staff trained in workshops at Colleges, some 90,000 teachers had been reached
by 1976.  A preliminary evaluation shows that the three-week course has had a
positive effect on teacher performance. The Office of Educational and Cultural
Research and Development (BP3K) is also initiating a project to provide in-
service teacher training via radio. The project covers nine remote provinces
plus Jogyakarta and Central Java. Under this project lessons will be broadcast
to 60,000 teachers, 20 minutes daily, four times a week. The results of in-
service training by radio (year-round) will be compared with that of mobile
units (one or two weeks intensively per year). The Government needs to
prepare plans for continuation of in-service training beyond the life of
these two projects, including assignment of institutional responsibility for
in-service training.
2.33      In-service training of secondary school teachers is organized at
Colleges and two existing In-Service Training Centers (BPG). It is scheduled
to increase; five additional Centers are under construction and eight more
planned. Four of the Centers would have a National status and specialize in
one subject area. Each Center is designed to accommodate about 150 trainees
and six-week courses are planned, usually organized by subject areas. At
completion, they would have an annual training capacity of 18,000 or about
one-sixth of the present number of lower and upper secondary teachers. All
Centers would be located adjacent to or nearby Colleges on which they would
rely for staffing. The concept of separate In-Service Training Centers at
Colleges requires careful planning to avoid duplication and misuse of
resources.
2.34      Pre-Service Teacher Training.  There is a major need to increase the
number and quality of new teachers entering the system. As a result of the
INPRES Program, the demand for primary teachers will amount to 250,000 between



- 11 -
1974 and 1984 or about 25,000 p.a. 1/. The demand will be substantial at the
secondary level also--89,000 for the period or 9,000 p.a. 2/. Part of the
demand will be met by absorbing trained, unemployed teachers. In the long run,
there is a risk that untrained or undertrained teachers may have to be hired
because of the recent decline in Institute enrollments (para 2.14) and low
College outputs (para 2.21). To meet the projected heavy demand for teachers
the Government plans to consolidate and expand the current uneconomic system
of primary teacher training (para 2.13). By 1984 the 205 public Institutes
enrolling 55,000 students will be converted into 126 Institutes enrolling
about 100,000 students. Under the consolidation program, the average size of
public Institutes will increase from about 270 to 800 students. Annual output
will increase from 15,000 teachers to 25,000, the estimated demand in the
early 1980s. The consolidation program is both desirable and feasible. The
larger enrollment size of the Institutes will ease management of the teacher
training system and facilitate use of staff and facilities. In addition the
program promises greater balance between supply and demand for teachers by
region (Annex 7). A consolidation plan has been prepared which identifies the
institutions to be expanded and those to be converted to other purposes. Most
of the consolidation will be achieved by converting the second and third
Institutes in a city, thus minimizing problems of student and staff relocation.
Construction has already been budgeted for the first group of Institutes to be
expanded under this consolidation program.
2.35      The Government has an opportunity under the consolidation program
to train a large supply of teachers in the new curricula, methods, and mate-
rials. However, to gain the full benefit of this teacher increase, sub-
stantial improvements are required in the training given at Institutes and
Colleges (paras 2.17 and 2.25). An initial step in this direction was a new
Institute curriculum developed in 1975 to conform to the new primary school
curriculum and the new role envisioned for teachers. Its first year of use
reveals major gaps in the areas of: (a) classroom management; (b) preparation
of lesson plans; (c) use of technologies and instructional materials; (d)
testing; and (e) diagnosis of student learning. Teacher trainers generally
use traditional teaching methods in their own work and would thus need to be
prepared for the use of alternative methods. Consequently, there is a need to
complement improvements already made by the Government in school buildings,
curricula and textbooks by improving pre-service teacher training. Fundamental
changes need to be introduced in:
(a) curricula, with more emphasis on broad subject preparation
and greater attention to practical teacher training;
1/   Estimated on the basis of achieving a pupil/teacher ratio of 35 in 1984,
up from 30 in 1974, and destined for 40 in year 2000. The current trend
is in the opposite direction, and if the present pupil/teacher ratio of
30 is continued, the annual demand would be about 40,000.
2/   Estimated on pupil/teacher ratios of 25 and 20 for the lower and upper
secondary schools, up from current ratios of 17 and 12. If current
ratios were maintained, the annual demand would amount to about 20,000.



- 12 -
(b)  materials, with additional and improved instructional
materials in the Indonesian language;
(c)  staff training, with emphasis on encouraging student
thought and inquiry;
(d)  facilities, in particular, provision of libraries,
laboratories and workshops; and
(e)  student selection, to ensure that students with aptitude
for teaching enter the profession.
The proposed project would support reforms in teacher training to achieve
these needed changes.
III. THE PROJECT
ObJectives
3.01      The principal objective of the proposed project is to produce
better trained teachers by improving the knowledge and teaching skills of
graduates from teacher training institutions. A secondary objective of the
project is to analyze basic problems affecting teacher utilization in schools
and formulate a program for treating these problems.
Project Scope
3.02      The objective of better trained teachers requires interrelated
changes of teacher education in student selection, teaching programs and
materials, staff training and physical facilities. The project accordingly
includes components which would:
(a)  revise teacher training programs in accordance with new
school curricula and more effective teaching methods;
(b)  develop, produce and distribute related instructional
materials in the national language;
(c)  retrain about 7,000 teacher educators in new curricula
and teaching methods;
(d)  provide specialized facilities (libraries, laboratories,
workshops and practice teaching rooms) at 15 secondary
teacher training colleges and 54 primary teacher training
institutes and equipment for an additional 14 institutes;
and
(e)  develop improved selection procedures for prospective
teachers, support policy studies related to teacher
utilization and preparatory studies for future education
projects.



- 13 -
Project Design and Phasing
3.03      At the request of the Government, the proposed project focusses
on quality improvements rather than expansion of enrollments. Expansion
by providing classrooms and communal facilities, would require little
foreign exchange currency and could be carried out without outside expertise
or assistance. However, the project would be closely coordinated with the
Government's expansion plans (para. 2.34) and would provide the specialized
facilities needed to expand Institute enrollments by about 7,000 places. The
proposed project covers both primary and secondary education in recognition
of the changes needed at both levels and the dependence of Institutes on
Colleges for staff and curricula. The number of institutions included in
the project represents a compromise between maximum impact and feasible size.
Virtually all of secondary teacher training could be covered because of fewer
institutions and staff. However, because of size the project would be limited
to about the first half of the primary teacher training institutes to be
expanded under the consolidation program. 1/
3.04      A team of 40 Indonesian educators would be selected and trained
to supervise the software aspects of the project (teaching programs and mate-
rials, staff training, studies and evaluation). The team would receive
nine months of training, starting about three months after Loan signing.
In parallel with this training, teaching materials would be drafted by
Indonesian subject matter specialists according to agreed criteria, and the
first phase of construction would commence (Annex 10). The year after the
overseas training would be devoted to the completion and testing of teaching
materials, training programs and the first physical facilities. Trial train-
ing programs would begin about 18 months after Loan signature. A project
monitoring system would be introduced in the trial phase. Based on evaluation
of trial programs after two years of execution, appropriate adjustments could
be made in the project targets and implementation schedule. Full replication
of the materials, training programs and facilities would take place in the
third to fifth years of project execution.
3.05      Development of Professional Leadership (Proposed outlay:  US$1.7
million 2/). Leadership and professional expertise for the proposed project
would be provided by a National Team of 40 Indonesian educators. The Team
would include staff members of Colleges and Institutes, Ministry of Education
and provincial education offices, assigned for full-time work on the project.
Criteria for selection would include professional competence, capability and
experience, with special emphasis on curriculum development and primary
teacher training. The Team would represent major subjects and geographic
regions; at least one member would be selected from each of the 15 Colleges.
The National Team would contribute to all components of the proposed proj-
ect--curriculum and materials development, design of facilities, selection
1/   The Government has indicated that it would improve the remaining
Institutes under a second phase program after obtaining results from
the consolidation of the first half included in the proposed project.
2/   Proposed outlays exclude contingencies.



- 14 -
of equipment, staff training, evaluation and policy studies. In the twelve-
month period following Loan signing, the Team would receive local and over-
seas orientation and training. This would begin with local orientation
during which Team members would be familiarized with classroom conditions,
project objectives and their future role in the project. Following the
orientation, the Team would follow a carefully designed study program,
including a period of overseas training (averaging five months) and local
follow-up seminars. This program would cover the major needs of Indonesian
teacher training, including: (a) training objectives and evaluation,
(b) content of training in general education and subject matter, (c) prep-
aration and use of instructional materials and equipment and (d) management
of training and development programs. During the second year of project
implementation the Team would concentrate on completing and testing teaching
materials and on preparations for staff training. The principal responsibil-
ity of the National Team during the third to fifth years of execution would be
to conduct the three staff training phases (para. 3.13), revise materials, and
contribute to research and policy studies (para 3.15).
3.06      The proposed project would finance allowances 1/, local and foreign
travel, and foreign training. During negotiations the Government and the
Bank reached agreement on criteria for selection, and on the outline and
schedule of the overseas study program. During negotiations the Government
also provided assurances that members of the Team would be required to work
full time exclusively on the project for a term of at least three years after
completion of training abroad.
3.07      Curricula and Materials Development (Proposed outlay: US$1.0
million). Teacher education curricula and programs would be adjusted and
materials developed to facilitate the training of teachers who are able to
implement the 1975 school curricula (para 2.30). Curricula and materials
development would begin starting about two months after Loan signing under
the leadership of the project management and the National Team (para 3.05),
assisted by curriculum commissions, College and Institute staff. This work
would be guided by the principles that new teachers should: (a) value the
ability of the child to learn by own activity and inquiry, (b) appreciate the
importance of concepts, relationships and processes, (c) relate teaching to
the environment and needs and interests of students, (d) organize independent
and group work based on diagnostic measurements, and (e) use educational
materials and technology effectively. Specific curricula changes would
emphasize teaching methods and practice, and introduce more relevant and
practical content in all subjects. The Colleges would ensure a broad subject
preparation and eliminate the problem of over-specialization (para 2.23) by
introducing interdepartmental courses.2/
1/   Allowances are supplements to salary to compensate for secondary income
foregone. Similar allowances are being financed by the Bank Group under
the third education project (Cr. 387-IND).
2/   For example, science teachers would need a minimum of one year or about
40 credits in broad science content and methods (covering physics,
chemistry, biology and agroscience with related methods courses) before
further specialization.



- 15 -
3.08      Instructional materials, mostly textbooks and teacher guides, would
be developed, produced and supplied under the project for use in staff train-
ing and in regular teacher education programs of all Institutes and Colleges.
Materials would cover about 40 courses at primary and secondary levels in
major subject areas. All materials would be in the national language (para
2.24). Printed matter would be supported by simple media such as charts, film-
strips and cassette tapes. The Colleges and fifteen Institutes would experi-
ment with videotaped materials. The National Team would have prime responsi-
bility for materials development complemented by subject matter specialists
at Institutes and Colleges employed on a contract basis. Materials would
be tested before and during the first phase of training. Materials would be
revised and improved throughout the remaining training phases. Initial work
on curricula and materials development by subject matter specialists would
parallel the period of foreign study of the National Team, but the major work
would occur in the year between the return of the Team from studies abroad and
the beginning of training (Annex 10).
3.09      The proposed project would finance allowances, local travelling and
the production and distribution of materials. The Government has prepared
guidelines for the adjustment of teacher education curricula to be undertaken
as part of the proposed project. These guidelines, which were discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations, provide inter alia for (a) broad stbject
matter preparation within each Faculty at Colleges and (b) increased propor-
tion of time for training in teaching methods at Institutes and Colleges.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that, except as other-
wise agreed, curricula adjusted according to these guidelines would be applied
to all Institutes and Colleges by January 1, 1981.
3.10      Physical Facilities (Proposed outlay: US$20.4 million).  Learning
Resource Centers consisting essentially of libraries, laboratories and work-
shops would be constructed, furnished and equipped at 15 Colleges and about
54 Institutes, and equipment would be provided to an additional 14 Institutes.
These facilities would enable teacher education institutions to train teachers
in new teaching methods and would also enable experimentation with new training
techniques. The project would include all 11 public IKIPs and four faculties
of teacher training (FKg) (para 2.19). These institutions were selected to
ensure 5easonable geographic coverage. At Colleges, facilities of about
1,100 m would be provided including (a) a demonstration/observation facility
where one or two groups of trainees could observe lessons being conducted, (b)
an audiovisual section where slides, films or videotapes of model teaching
could be shown to large or small groups, or students could analyze their own
teaching (c) a science and mathematics laboratory workshop, and (d) a social
studies workshop. Laboratories and workshops would be designed to train
students to prepare and use instructional materials. Videotape equipment
would be simple and portable. One College would be provided with a small
computer facility for education research and mathematics education. All
facilities would serve not only the Colleges but also any adjacent In-Service
Training Center (BPG) (para 2.33).



- 16 -
3.11      The 68 Institutes were selected to ensure balanced regional cover-
age and to conform with the phasing of the Government's consolidation program
(para. 2.34). The facilities provided under the project would complement
the classrooms and communal facilities which exist or are to be constructed
by the Government as part of its consolidation program. The facilities at
Institutes would have a net area of about 400 m and include: (a) a library,
(b) a multi-purpose workshop, and (c) a science laboratory. Fifteen Institutes
would be more fully equipped than the others including a small audiovisual
room and at a nearby primary school a demonstration/observation facility.
These schools would be available for demonstration, training and pedagogical
experiments. At each institution a staff member would oversee the activities
within the Learning Resource Center and a technician would be employed to
assist the staff in use and maintenance of equipment.
3.12      The proposed project would finance construction of civil works and
procurement of furniture, equipment, library books and educational materials.
3.13      Staff Training (Proposed outlay:  US$6.3 million).  An important
part of the project would be to train staff of teacher training institutions
in the content and use of new curricula, teaching methods, materials and
project facilities (paras 2.16 and 2.25). The project would aim at retrain-
ing about 7,000 staff, or 80% of the projected total for 1981, including
College staff, Institute staff, administrators, librarians, inspectors and
technicians (on equipment use and maintenance). This target would be reviewed
after evaluation of trial and first phase training programs (para 3.04) and an
ultimate target in the range of 5,000-7,000 staff established. The training
programs would be conducted by members of the National Team at regional Colleges,
assisted by 100-200 selected College staff who would receive prior instruction.
The training for regular College staff would last three months. Training for
Institute staff, with the same leadership and locations as for College staff,
would last about two months followed by two seminars of two weeks duration by
regional College staff at selected Institutes. Full replication of the train-
ing program in two or three phases would follow a trial phase, evaluation, and
necessary adjustments in the program.
3.14      The proposed project would finance allowances, per diem, and travel
for teaching staff and participants.
3.15      Evaluation and Policy Studies (Proposed outlay:  US$0.3 million).
An important feature of the proposed project is evaluation and studies to help
ensure achievement of project objectives and to assist in overcoming basic sec-
toral problems. A project monitoring system would be developed by the National
Team (para 3.05) and consultant services financed under the project. The
monitoring system would assess how well trainees acquire the new teaching
skills sought by the project. In addition it would assess job performance of
graduates in the classroom in terms of the use and effects of new teaching
methods. The information obtained from the monitoring system would be used
regularly to identify weaknesses in project implementation as a basis for



- 17 -
necessary adjustments and improvements. Development of the monitoring system
would involve three steps: (i) identification of the specific skills and
competencies expected of teachers by level and subject, (ii) design of methods
and instruments to measure achievement of those skills and competencies, and
(iii) application and revision of the tests during project execution. As a
corollary to the monitoring system, the project would also support the devel-
opment of better methods for selecting students into teacher training insti-
tutions, and the design of standardized student achievement tests for use
in schools. The project also includes funds for preparatory work for future
education projects. During negotiations the Government provided assurances
that improved methods and criteria for selecting trainees would be introduced
at all Institutes and Colleges by January 1, 1981. It also agreed to submit
to the Bank for exchange of views by July 1, 1979 its plan for continuous
in-service teacher training, covering program content, length, means of train-
ing, target groups and agency responsibility (para 2.32).
3.16      Full use of the improved teacher training to be accomplished under
the project depends on finding solutions to problems of teacher deployment and
salaries (paras 2.05-2.06). The project would therefore include policy
studies to help overcome key constraints on quality improvement in education.
in particular the project would help finance studies on teacher status (work-
ing conditions and salaries) and use (multiple jobs and short school day).
These studies would conclude with an evaluation of various policy options
available to address the problems (Annex 11). During negotiations the Govern-
ment and 'Bank reached agreement on the scope and sequence of the policy review
program. The Government also provided assurances that terms of reference for
studies would be acceptable to the Bank, and that results of studies would be
submitted to the Bank for exchange of views.
3.17      Technical Assistance (Annex 12).  The above mentioned project compo-
nents include 72 man-months of expert assistance and 240 man-months of foreign
fellowships as shown in Annex 12. In addition, expert assistance would be
provided for project management support including equipment procurement spe-
cialists (6 man-months) and project advisors (36 man-months) at an estimated
total outlay of US$0.2 million. An agency abroad would be contracted to admi-
nister and coordinate overseas training of the 40 Indonesian educators. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that programs and schedules
for foreign fellowships and terms of reference and conditions of employment of
experts would be acceptable to the Bank.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost
4.01      Estimated costs project are given in Annexes 13 and 14 and
summarized below:



-18 -
Rp (million)             US$ (million)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Professional Leadership            319     406      725      0.7     1.0      1.7
Curriculum & Materials
Development                      112     294      406     0.3      0.7      1.0
Physical Facilities              4,253   4,194   8,447    10.3    10.1    20.4
Staff Training                   2,052     551   2,603       5.0     1.3      6.3
Evaluation & Policy Studies         52       88     140      0.1     0.2      0.3
Project Management Support          -        92      92       -      0.2      0.2
Total Base Cost                  6,788   5,625  12,413    16.4    13.5    29.9
Contingencies:
Physical                         679     563   1,242       1.6     1.4      3.0
Price                          2,409   1,682   4,091      5.8      4.1      9.9
Total                            9,876   7,870  17,746    23.8    19.0    42.8
4.02      Base cost estimates refer to early 1977 prices.  Civil works costs
have been estimated on the basis of functional and economical accommodation
schedules and recent bidding experience. Site development costs have been
estimated' at 20% of construction costs; professional services at 12% of cost
of the civil works (construction and site development); and furniture at 10%
of construction cost. Equipment estimates were based on preliminary equipment
lists which are reasonable in scale. The cost of the fellowships is based on
a detailed study program agreed upon during negotiations. Expatriate services
are costed at US$5,300 per man month. The cost of local training 1/ was
calculated on the basis of reasonable per diem and travel allowances.
4.03      Use factors of the Learning Resource Centers (LRC) would average 75%
based on 40 weekly teaching periods.  Unit building costs would amount to about
US$170/mi for school buildings which accords with building cost in the region
(Malaysia, Philippines and Thailand). Capital cost per student place of a
typical LRC would amount to about US$1,700 including US$1,150 for civil works,
US$100 for furniture and US$450 for equipment, books and materials.
4.04      The foreign exchange component, US$19 million or 44% of tctal proj-
ect cost, has been estimated as follows for the various project elements:
civil works, 35%; furniture, 35%; equipment, 85%; and technical assistance,
30%; (Annex 13). These percentages have been calculated on the basis of a cost
analysis of the various components (e.g. labor, materials, overhead and profit).
1/   Includes allowances, per diem and travel for trainees and for local
personnel (trainers) for curriculum and materials development, training,
evaluation and studies.      -



- 19 -
4.05      The contingency allowance of US$12.9 million (Annex 14) includes:
(a) physical contingencies for unforeseen factors estimated at 10% of the
base cost and (b) price contingencies averaging 30% of the base cost and phy-
sical contingencies. Project contingencies were calculated on the basis of
the implementation schedule and expected annual price increases between 1977
and 1982 as follows:
Annual Percentages of Price Increases
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Civil Works and Furniture
including Professional
Services                       14      11      9     8.5      8      8
Equipment                           9      8      8      7.5     7       7
Experts and Overseas
Fellowships                     9       9      9      8       8      7
Local Training (Trainers
and Trainees)                  14      11      9      9       8.5    8
The above figures are based on GDP deflator indices for the local cost compo-
nents and Bank guidelines for foreign cost components.
4.06      Custom duties and taxes amount to about 10% of total project cost
including contingencies. No customs duties are levied on educational equipment
if directly imported by the Government.
Project Financing
4.07      The proposed Bank Loan of US$19 million would finance the foreign
exchange component, or 44% of the total project costs including contingencies.
At full operating capacity, the programs at the project institutions would
require additional recurrent expenditures at Rp 2.6 billion (1974 prices)
representing an increase of 1.7% over recurrent public education expenditures
in 1974.
Implementation
4.08      Management.  The project would be managed by the Teacher Training
Division of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE). This Division is also
in charge of implementing the Government's parallel construction program which
would supply the additional classrooms and communal facilities needed for ex-
pansion of the Institutes (paras 2.34 and 3.10). Identical procedures and
staff would be used for execution of the project and the parallel construction
program, but additional staff would be added to the Division to-manage the
additional workload which the project entails. Since the project spans three
major organizational units in the MOE (the Office of Educational and Cultural
Research (BP3K), and the Directorates General of Primary and Secondary Education
and of Higher Education], a Board of Directors has been formed which would be



- 20 -
responsible for overall project planning, coordination and control (Annex 15).
The Director of the Teacher Education Division, is the Chairman of the Board
and the Project Director. Two senior officials, one each from the Directorate
General of Higher Education and the Office of Educational and Cultural Research
and Development (BP3K), are members of the Board and co-directors of the
project. For the Teacher Education Division the following key staff have been
designated or appointed to work on the project: (i) assistant director; (ii)
curriculum and materials development officer; (iii) training officer; (iv)
evaluation officer; (v) architect; (vi) procurement officer; and (vii) comp-
troller. These staff would be assisted by advisors experienced in project
management and procurement and be provided adequate supporting staff. At
the provincial level, staff of the provincial departments of education and
public works are being designated to assist project implementation. They
would have responsibility for site surveys, necessary site selection and
acquisition, and would participate in review of sketch plans, evaluation of
bids for civil works, and site supervision. During negotiations the Govern-
ment provided assurances that the project management would continue to submit
joint budget requests covering construction of project facilities and facili-
ties for expansion at project institutions.
4.09      Professional services required for civil works and procurement of
furniture would be provided by a consortium of three consultant architect
firms. The firms were contracted in April 1977. The firms would prepare
sketch plans, working drawings and specifications and provide site supervision
related to project and the parallel construction program.
4.10      Sites.  About 80% of project institutions have adequate land avail-
able for both the Learning Resource Centers and the parallel construction
program. For the other 20%, additional land is being selected and acquired.
Such land would be adjacent to or nearby existing sites. During negotiations
the Government provided assurances that: (a) it would acquire adequate
additional land as necessary at each site not less than six months prior to
the scheduled start of construction at each site, and (b) site plans showing
existing and intended construction at each location would be acceptable to
the Bank.
4.11      Implementation.  Annex 10 shows the sequence in which the project
would be executed. Coordination of the various project components would be
essential. Staff training, for example, could not start until materials,
facilities and the training program were completed and tested. Two activities,
execution of the fellowship program and equipment procurement, are on the
immediate critical path of initial implementation and are being given priority
attention by project management. Following evaluation of the initial trial
phase two years after Loan signing (para 3.04), it may be necessary to revise
the program and schedule for subsequent implementation, such as to divide
training into more phases of smaller size. The implementation period, five
and one-half years, would allow flexibility to accommodate such changes, but
could not be shortened without substantially weakening the impact and effec-
tiveness of the project. The project would be completed by December, 1982.



- 21 -
4.12      The Government has made good progress in preparing the project for
implementation. A project team has been organized and staffed (para 4.08)
consultant architect firms have been contracted (para 4.09) and have prepared
schematic designs for the Learning Resource Centers and designs for the
parallel program. Priorities of this parallel program are consistent with the
phasing of project construction. Adequate budget has been obtained for initial
project activities, including purchase of land for the first phase. Selection
has begun for members of the National Team and their training program has been
planned in detail. A Ministerial decree has been prepared for signature for
the purpose of establishing commissions to revise teaching curricula. Broad
outlines for changes in College curricula have been discussed and agreed within
the Government and with the Bank (para 3.09).
Procurement
4.13      Civil works and procurement of furniture and equipment would be
grouped to the extent practicable to form attractive bid packages. Contracts
for civil works would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding.
Indonesia has well-developed building industries and foreign firms not already
established in Indonesia are unlikely to bid due to the relatively small bid
packages (US$100,000-200,000) and the scattered construction sites. Bid pack-
ages would include project construction as well as parallel construction for
which the Government would use local competitive bidding. Separate contracts
would be signed for project construction and parallel construction. Bidding
would follow current government procurement procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. Prior Bank review would be required on contract awards above
US$200,000 equivalent. Foreign firms would be allowed to bid.
4.14      Equipment and furniture packages over US$50,000 equivalent would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. In bid comparison local manufacturers would be allowed
a preferential margin of 15% on the cif cost of equipment or the customs duty
whichever is lower. Equipment and furniture which cannot be grouped to form
packages of US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded without prior Bank review on
the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with current government
procurement practices which are acceptable to the Bank. Miscellaneous items,
in packages not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent, subject to an aggregate total
not exceeding US$300,000 equivalent, could be purchased off the shelf on the
basis of at least three price quotations. Instructional materials and books
produced outside Indonesia would be procured through international shopping
also on the basis of minimally three prize quotations. Books produced locally
would be procured on the basis of local bidding acceptable to the Bank or
where appropriate purchased from publishers after negotiations for bulk
purchases.
Disbursements
4.15      The proposed loan of US$19 million equivalent would finance 44% of
the total project cost and would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  30% of the cost of construction and site development;



- 22 -
(b)  30% of total cost, or 100% of foreign cost, of professional
services for civil works;
(c)  100% of the cif cost of imported equipment  1/ and furniture,
95% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment
and furniture, and 65% of the cost of imported equipment and
furniture procured locally;
(d)  100% of cost of expert services; and
(e)  100% of foreign costs and 30% of local costs of training and
fellowships.
4.16      Withdrawal applications would be aggregated to the extent feasible
in groups of US$50,000 prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement.
Disbursements for training cost would be made on the basis of certified
statements issued by the project director, showing number of staff trained
and average actual expenditures per trainee. Full records of training ex-
penditures would be available for Bank review in the field. An annual audit
would be conducted by an independent agency with copies sent to the Bank no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. At negotiations
the Government and Bank agreed on audit procedures. It is recommended that
expenditures for professional services and fellowships, subject to maxi-
mum of US$300,000, incurred between November 1, 1976 and loan signing would be
reimbursed from the proposed loan retroactively. Disbursement is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1982 (Annex 16).
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
5.01      The ultimate benefit of the project would be improved quality of
instruction in primary and secondary schools by means of better trained
teachers. Under the project the content and methods of teacher training
would be reformed and improved. Training programs would be adjusted to
correspond more closely with the competencies required for classroom instruc-
tion. Textbooks and teacher guides covering 40 subjects would be developed
and produced in the national language and distributed to a total of 200 tea-
cher training institutions. Retraining would be provided for between 5,000
and 7,000 teacher educators, or 60%-80% of all teacher education staff in new
curricula and teaching methods. Physical facilities provided by the project
(libraries, laboratories, workshops and demonstration rooms) would permit
better academic preparation and especially the acquisition of better teaching
methods. Between 1980 and 1985 it is expected that about 80,000 primary and
23,000 secondary teachers would have graduated from teacher education insti-
tutions involved in all aspects of the project. These teachers would in 1985
educate about 2.8 and 0.5 million students at primary and secondary levels,
respectively. It is reasonable to expect that the project, together with other
1/   "Equipment" includes instructional materials and books.



- 23 -
improvements envisioned by the Government, would make it possible to achieve
targets for primary and secondary school student achievement substantially
above current levels (para 2.07).
5.02      In addition the project would support the Government's program to
rationalize its system of primary teacher training by reducing the total number
of Institutes from 205 to 126 and increasing average enrollment from 270 to
about 800 in 1984, thereby improving quality and reducing unit costs. As
most trainees are female the Government's expansion program would also in-
crease employment opportunities for women. The proposed project would make
a limited contribution to the expansion by providing about 7,000 student
places (about 15% of the number of new places needed).
5.03      Risks.  The activities of this project involve an unusual degree of
interdependence, span a wide geographical area and depend on action at various
levels of government administration. Therefore, effective coordination and
management are especially important to the attainment of project objectives.
The project takes these requirements into account by: (a) formation of a
board of directors to develop and supervise project operations, (b) careful
recruitment and training of a National Team to lead each project activity,
(c) establishment of a fully staffed project management unit, (d) provision
of technical assistance for project management support, and (e) specific
arrangements for reassessment of the implementation schedule after an initial
trial phase.
5.04      Successful implementation also depends on coordination of the pro-
ject with parallel activities being undertaken by the Government, particularly
its planned construction program to expand enrollments at project teacher
training institutes (para 2.34). At several institutions this parallel
construction is essential for effective utilization of the project facilities;
consequently joint budgeting, architectural design and tendering of project,
and parallel construction have been agreed upon with the Government.
5.05      Factors outside the direct purview of the project, such as low
prestige for teacher training institutions, multiple jobs for teachers and
inefficient deployment of teachers (short school days), are major obstacles
to improvement of instruction. There is little the project can do to affect
these problems directly or quickly but the proposed project would include a
systematic evaluation by the Government of its policies on teacher salaries,
deployment and working conditions. (Annex 11).
5.06      The ultimate benefit of the project, better student learning, would
depend on whether and how well the graduates of project institutions apply
improved teaching methods in the classroom. This would require teachers to
change traditional attitudes and behavior about the content and methods of
teaching. The project includes a monitoring system which would facilitate
assessments of the use and effects of new methods in classrooms as a basis
for continuous adjustments in the curricula and methods of teacher training
by the project institutions and improvements in classroom teaching.
5.07      Despite the implementation risks and the above-mentioned general
obstacles to improvements in the quality of instruction, the project would



- 24 -
be able to make a significant impact on teaching skills and methods. The
good progress made by the Government in preparing the project for implementa-
tion (para 4.12) indicates a strong interest in, and commitment to, the
project. Without the changes in teacher training which the project would
introduce, the objectives of the new school curricula are unlikely to be met
(paras 2.17 and 2.23) by the 180,000 new teachers who would enter the system
between 1980 and 1985 without proper preparation. Subsequent retra:Lning would
be logistically and educationally difficult. The project, therefore, affords
a unique opportunity to achieve broad improvements in the quality of teacher
preparation.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01      During negotiations the Government and the Bank discussed and
reached agreements on selection criteria and the outline and schedule of the
foreign study program for members of the National Team (para 3.06), guidelines
for curriculum adjustments (para 3.09), a policy review study on the status
and deployment of teachers (para 3.16) and procedures for an annual audit of
the project expenditures (para 4.16).
6.02      During negotiations the Government provided assurances on:
(a) employment of members of the National Team (para 3.06),
implementation of curriculum plans (para 3.09), selection
of trainees for teacher education (para 3.15), plans
for continuous in-service training of teachers (para 3.15),
terms of reference for, and review of, results of studies
(para 3.16), review procedures for technical assistance
(para 3.17); and
(b) coordination of project construction with the parallel
consolidation program (para 4.08), and acquisition of
land and review of site plans (para 4.10).
6.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$19
million for a term of 20 years including four and one half years grace period.



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
WORLD BANK GROUP
EDUCATION PROJECTS IN INDONESIA
AND THEIR IMPLEMENTATION
One education project has been completed and closed and three are
presently being carried out with World Bank assistance. They are summarized
as follows:
Indonesia I (Credit 219-IND)
Five new centralized workshops (TTCs) for 14 technical
senior secondary schools (STMs).
Total project cost (appr. est.)       US$7.6 million
Total project cost (actual est.)    US$10.75 million
Amount of credit                      US$4.6 million
Amount disbursed                      US$4.5 million
Amount cancelled                      US$O.1 million
Date of Credit Agreement              November 6, 1970
Closing Date                          December 31, 1976
The project was fully implemented by mid-1976, about six months be-
fore the closing date. Although construction started 12 months behind sched-
ule because of delays in appointing consulting architects, most civil works
were completed on schedule. Procurement and installation of most major furni-
ture and equipment were not completed until the end of 1975 and minor equip-
ment procurement continued until August 1976. Nearly 550 technical teachers
completed training under the project or about 70% more than planned. This
was caused by a reduction of the class and workshop group size and the conse-
quent increased need of teachers. The TTC started operating on a limited
basis in mid-1975, were two-thirds occupied in 1976 with two of the three
grades making use of the facilities, and became fully operational in 1977.
While there are no graduates yet from the TTCs, the quality of training in
the TTCs, in comparison with those STMs without the centralized workshop
supporting facilities, has been much improved through the provisions made
in this project, i.e. better facilities (workshops and equipment), better
trained teachers, improved curriculum and closer linkage with industry.
Indonesia II (Credit 288-IND)
Thirteen in-service training centers (ISTCs) and a
training institute for agricultural extension
workers (rehabilitation, expansion and equipping);
Two new agricultural senior secondary schools
(SPMA);



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
Twelve agricultural senior secondary schools
(rehabilitation expansion and equipping).
Total project cost (appr. est.)         US$12.3 million
Total project cost (current est.)       US$22.0 million
Amount of credit                        US$6.3 million
Amount disbursed (4/29/77)              US$5.4 million
Date of credit agreement                March 9, 1972
Closing date                            March 31, 1978
Because of the delays in the initial stages of implementation, the
project completion will be delayed by about one year. Good progress was made
however, during 1976. Progress and quality of civil works are satisfactory.
Construction has been completed at twenty six of the twenty seven project
institutions. Furniture and equipment to be acquired under the project has
been contracted. Delivery of equipment from port of entry to schools is
delayed because the necessary budget funds for local handling and transpor-
tation charges were not included in FY76-77, as requested by PIU. Adequate
funds however, have been provided in FY77-78 permitting the delivery to be
completed by the end of 1977, when all project institutions will be in use.
The technical assistance program is virtually complete. Enrollment and out-
puts of the SPMA conform to the appraisal estimate. During the last six
months the teaching force of the SPMA was increased from 91 to 123. Another
41 staff will be recruited this year. For the ISTC, all teachers have been
selected but not yet appointed.
Indonesia III (Credit 387-IND)
Testing, production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects;
Preparation and testing of related prototype teach-
ing aids; and
Related in-service training of 350,000 primary school
teachers and upgrading of 2,800 supervisors.
Total project cost (appr. est.)         US$39.2 million
Total project cost (current est.)       US$58.9 million
Amount of credit                        US$13.5 million
Amount of disbursed (4/29/77)           US$5.1 million
Date of credit agreement                June 1, 1973
Closing date                            December 31, 1981
The first 31 million textbooks produced during 1975/76 have been
distributed and are beginning to be used in schools this year. Production
of 49 million textbooks scheduled for 1976 is well under way. Book delivery,
a problem when printers were required to arrange delivery, has been improved



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
through the appointment of a national forwarding company as general contrac-
tor. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. To improve effec-
tiveness of equipment utilization, the Government is being urged to prepare
instruction manuals for its use. Motorcycles have been delivered and are
being used by school inspectors. Teacher training is being conducted on a
large scale but it has proved difficult to keep the training program in
phase with book deliveries. A rephasing of the training program is being
considered. Project management has been strengthened by arrival of UNESCO
specialists and appointment of additional Indonesian staff. The Bank Group
is planning to mount a mission to review textbook development and production
in Indonesia to determine how it can help to consolidate and institutionalize
these functions.
Indonesia IV (Loan 1237-IND)
Expansion of two Technical Teacher Training Facilities
(FKITS) and four new Technical Training Centers (TTCs)
under the Department of Education and Technical Assist-
ance through UNESCO;
Seventeen new Vocational Training Centers (PLKs), equip-
ment for 25 Mobile Training Units (MTUs), furniture and
equipment for one PLK under the Department of Manpower,
and Technical Assistance through UNOTC 1/.
New training facilities for the National Institute
of Administration (LAN) and Technical Assistance.
Total project cost (appr. est.)         US$64.2 million
Total project cost (current est.)       US$64.2 million
Amount of credit                        US$37.0 million
Amount disbursed (4/29/77)              US$0.9 million
Date of credit agreement                April 15, 1976
Closing date                            December 31, 1980
The project became effective on June 17, 1976. Project Implemen-
tation Units have been established for all three components of the project.
A project coordinator and three team leaders for the UNESCO, ILO and UNOTC
preparatory technical assistance have arrived in the field. Contract agree-
ments with the consultant architects and the Funds-in-Trust Agreements with
UNESCO, ILO and UNOTC have been signed and the technical assistance is
progressing satisfactorily. Site selection and acquisition are generally
satisfactory with some exceptions due to difficult site conditions and high
site development costs. Schematic design for the Education and Manpower
sub-projects have been prepared by the consultant and approved by the
Bank, while those for the LAN sub-project are being revised. Overall
project implementation is about ten months behind schedule, but is expected
to be completed within Closing Date. Disbursements are on schedule.
1/   United Nations Office of Technical Cooperation.
April 1977



COMPARATIVE EOWCATION INDICATORS                                                         ANNIX I
MAY 601977
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
a        I        i            I         I                   I         I         I     .     I       I             I             I        I       I         I
I        I GNP/ I 11 GNP    it TOTALIX   OF PUBLIC i                   I         I           sPRI. IAV,PRI.    I                 I        ISEC    I         I
I        OCAPITAI DEVOTEDIPUBLIC I EDUCATION    ILITERV, iFRI, 1COMPLEw j3TU- ISCH.TEACHIPROGRESSwo $EC, iSTU. i                                            I
I        i  AT    % TO EOU                  RECURRENT    IACI          sENROLLMON            iDENTSiSALARY IN%I(IN RATE 1ENR0LLsDENT8tKIQHERs
I        $MARKETS (PUSLI!:.E'V0"Th:EXP ALLOCATEDo  RATE $RATIO IRATE FORIP[R    iRELATION IFROM PRI,eRATIC sPER    sENROLLI
iPOP, sPRICESo EXP.    iTO    c                   TOI        j(% OF   i NET   sPRI.3CH   TEACH: TO GNP/ $TO $IC.   I NET   jTEACH- RATICs
YRIMILL3.3 (USS)i ONLY)    i  FOU. iPRI, SEC, HI.IADULTS)i (1)   ICYCLE(XI:ER                              CAPITA    i    M         I (11)   #ER    I C%)
(3)    1 (4)                            (b)        (7)   :   (8)    : (9) I   (10)    : (11.)             :(12)   :(13) :(14)
......................................................................................................                                                           ..............
ADVANCED
;U,;7;7;          73    7.5E 4,4toE          4.3       9,V9     470   299   20 0    99          90        93         26         2.0          99         St       19        8,00
CANADA            72   Z2,9E 6,i9oE           7,7    1914       30    38    19        98        89         98        24         2.0          99         52       IT        9,00
GERMANY F.REP.72   62.OE 6,260E               4.2    III ?       ...  74** 26         99        91        99          33         1-1         99         91       ?2       17.00cy
JAPAN             71 SU9.7E 4,070E           4.3    20:7        39    is    la        99        990       99C        asc        2,0          99C        94D      aoc    26,00D
NETHERLANDS    72   13*St 9,250E             8,5    191IG    32    49    L9           99        95        9FJ         29        3, 0         97         73       20       ittoo
NEW ZEALAND    73    3.0t, 4,310f            5.2    ...         39    24    29        99        99        99         26                      99         67       19      24. Oo
NORWAY            12    4,0E 5, 860E         7.0    113 2       -so    as    13       99        99        98         20         1.9         99          Tb       14      11,00
SWEDEN            73    8.2E 7,240E          M,9    I6:o        36    14    13        99       99         99          17                    90          as       to      30, 0 0
U,K,              72   55.9E 3,490E          6.3    t2,7        46    39    22        98        99         p-q        26        2.0                     b3       17       11.00
U.S.A.            T2 211.9E 6,670E           6,0    19.4               73** 27        99        99         99        29U        2.0                     93       iqu    29, 0 a
EUROPE
;";E-;                  9,OE 2,n9nE         2.2    11;1        94Y   29Y   14Y    82A          oljy       V.,       32Y       I.,           70A        say      43Y    11,00
IRELAND           72    3,IE 2,32nE           5. 1    t349D    43Y   41Y   14Y    S.          97         99A        39                     95A         is       19        7,00A
PORTUGAL          72    q.OE 1,630C           ...                      ...   ..;    ...         91xy       ...                                          bsxy       t.      7 60Y
SPAIN             71  39.IE 2,490E           2.18   ;;!iA    4;;   22Y   15Y    94A             91A        ...       i;Al                               29A      ;O        6:OOA
AFRICA
; ;i;            75   15,7        778       7.5       ti-      416   32G   lag    30          76         62f        42E        6,UG        49E         17       Zs        4.00
BENIN             13    3.0e    t2oE         5,3    3210        qy    23    to        11       32xe       70 8       -job      25, 08       439          78      39B       0044cy
SUTS"ANA          74    U.7        290       9,0    20 u        36    20    is        25        7ox        715        39        5,0          24         13X      18        0,30Y
BURUNDI                                               19,90    47R   4IR   IRR    to            2ox        30?       la        10.0          14          2X      to        1.0
CAmEROON          73    T.iE    2.50E        5.9    20 to       3gy   29Y   ITY    ...          74          V.       41DY    -                           9       23CY    0.90cy
C.A.R.            70    1.7E    210L         4.0N   20 0        5b    It?                       64CY       25        611CY                   is          srv    27BY    0,07Y
CHAD              75    4.OE    IOOE         3,0    10:0        To    22                        29xsy    30          696Y    ;;:O             a          2XBY   30         0.018Y
CON;O(B)          74    143        470       6.0    1913        40    32    21        507    133X          63        63         6 , U        4a         33X      22        3,40
EGYPI             74   36,41       280        9,3      Vt.      29    36    241       40        74X        49         MD       -             64         39X      Pe       11,co
ETHIOPIA          73   2712E    tooE          3.t    20, 0      42    29    18          7       17C        42        -io        3,U          63          2       30        0,20
GABON             73    U.5   1,960E            0    ZOO        as       9    It              184xoy    25C          46C        9,0          IOA        20C      21C       1.4oc-
GHANA             71    9.6L    43t)E         4.7    24,4DR   360   ISQ   230    ...            56xcy    62          3ucy    ...             14         lix      16CY    0.748Y
IVORY COAST    72    b, 4E    460E           6. 3    24, 7      27BY 330Y 13Y          9A      92         57A        46        ...           . . ,      I 0      25        1.20BY
KENYA             73   1 2.9E    200E        6,11N   27,u       63    1 i     I 1     40        73         ...       40         8.0          14         12       25        1,03BY
LESUTHO           75    1.2        14OF    I "'op   23, 0       49    le    2o        40        as          0        132        7,QN         a I        I 0      26        j.00
LIBERIA           75    i's        410       2.4    13,2        27    I 9     20      73       -se         1-1       319        2.0          t - 9      it       lb        t,lohy
MADAGASCAR        74    8,6        too       3. 2    12, 1      III    24    RS       40        66X        30        63        15.0          46          9x      26        1 to 0
MALAWI            74    4.9        130       3, I    20,9       4 I 9   I . . I . .    29       56X        60        130        7, 0         40          4 X     20        0,26cy
MALI              74   -3 , bE      SoE      4,6N   32,3        lbq   Sao   its    loc          18A        22A       40A       1 4 , 08      ITA         4A      17A       0 , I &A V
MAURITANIA        TO    I .3E    29nr        4.5    21.0         I I.   ...   ...    I 0        tsx        . . .     22                                  3       24        1 I-
MAURI I IUS       72    0 .9E    98oE        3. 7    11 7DQ   7 1    1 0       4      so        86         qq        I I                                 1       30        1,47cy
MOROCCO           7 4   16.3       340       .5. oc   I-5       44    47       9      26?       134 x      2 1       37                      3 1        13X      2 1       2,VO
NIGERIA           7 1  73.0e    327F          3. 2    t                                         S9xCY                 34cy                               4       ZOCY    0.37cy
ROANDA            73    4,OE        BAE       3,2C                ..   ...   ...                52                   9 1                                 a       1 3       0,23cy
SENEGAL           I I    4,9E    330E        4.9N   220OR  38A   42A    5 A    I 0              Sax                  46                                 I I x    25        1,%Cy
SIERRA LELINE   73    2,9E    190E            3. 4    23, 4     3 1    36    30       IS?       34X        4s        32         4.OE         68         13X      2 1       0 2 SS5 y
SOMALIA           75    3. 2       1 ( 0     3. 70   1 0,80    490   16Q   19G    907           34X        86        313       1 D. 0        60          3       1 5       0, I 0
SUDAN             72   19,2E    230E         4 .5    1 3.2      43    29    ze        I 5       36         75        4'i        4, 0         2S         I I      a 0       1 '23Y
SWAZILAND         TS    0 I        4TO       3.8       ...      3a    St    19        5 0       T 3       7 1        38         S , 6        5i         24       22        I , (' I
TANZANIA          74   14.4t    16OF         9. 1 N   I 7 , 0   36    ...   I 2       63        44X        . . ,     49                       T          2       zic       O'S 0
TUNISIA           73    S.9e    610E         6. 3    23,11      37    43    1 6       55        72        8 1        4 3        6, 0         3 1        1 4      2 1       3, 00
UGANDA            70   1 1 .2E    240E       9.2N   t?,6CR   409   229  250    29A              48xcy    ...          36                     14A         4xcy   21         0 , soov
UPPER VOLTA    72    S,AE           94)E      4.0    2 319      69    1 0      6        5       I 0        . . .      49       18.0          20          2       23        0.010Y
ZAIRE             73   24. If    ISOE         5, ?CN 2 3c    54C   17C   29C    15              63         3:         44A       b,o          43          5       24        0,968Y
74    4,8       920        5.3    I,:
ZAMBIA                                                 1 2      34       a    16      43        88         8          47        9. 0         20         13       22        1 . 0 0
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE C4RIBBEAN
;;;T z;         ;;    7:;;    ;;;;         S.?    22;T        137    as    12       89        86cy       69        29         3, 0         58         22cy    25        12, 1 ICY
DUMINICAN REF,72    4.6E    6150E            3. 0    1 3 9      42    4?4    22         1       80         I 1       54         3.OD         63         II's    24         7, 00
EL SALVADOR    TS                                     21                 Is   22      go        65         ...        39                     39          Sxc
S.6E    W E         3.6      318       61                    6 a         c                     CY      ...                              ZICY    4 359Y
GuArEMALA         73    5.3e    118 nE        t.9    16. 0      9-3   23    1 4       47        64         26        iq         3.0          69          a       as        4.0gy
HAI 11            72    4,SC    t7oE         0,9       616D    61    1 i       a      206       22         25?        45        5.0          so          3       as        I'm
HONDURAS          72    2.8E    340E         3,9    26,SD    64    i 3        3 6     92        aix        I 0        37        6,0          75         14X      14        3,0 0
JAMAICA           72    200e 1,190E          6,Sy   t 9  7      33Y   22Y    Ty    86         lobxy       I . .      92         R - I       t . ,      32XY    19         4,79V
MEXICO            70   97,9c 1,090E          2,6       913      94    Z4    12        76        71         31         46        3,o          63         19       2%        6.32cy
NICARAGUA         74    2,0F    670E          2.5    14 2       61    13    13        97        65X        21         37         2. 0        93         17       24        7100
TRINIDAD S T. 71    I,1E 1,700E              5, I    tfl :9     9      27      2      90        95         BT         39        4. 0         Is         49       25        2,54AY
SOUTH AMERICA
76    9.1       3tisF              IT,SF                           38        ITS        29D        24         -5F                     41       16D
BRAZIL            73 107.0   1, ol 0          5.0    12, 4       42C   2oE    3YE   64A         66G        ...        27cy                              266       15cy    6, goo
CHILE             72   1 0,49    SSOE         4 .6Y   10,6AY   36Y   14Y   36Y    , , .    I t I XDY    .1,           l7sy                              4SXDY   ...        I t 0
COLOMBIA           70   23, le    400E        4 .0    to,q       39    18    20       is        67         20         36         4, O        90         17        14       4.00
ECUADOR           7z    619C    480E          3. 7    2717C    45GY 499Y Jody   69              72         , . .      38         , . 0       , . I      16        la       4,97ty
GUYANA            74    o's        -30 0     S,8N   14, 70    47    39    14          53A       92X        39         33         6,0         19         62X       24       1 .00
PARAGUAY           74    als       -sto       t , a    I I0      55    13    22       St        82         26         3u         1 , 9       65         17        12       5, 00
PERU               71   14.9[    740E         4 S    14 ' I D    fiO    22    Is      72        so         se         39DY       3, 0        70         so        asoy   12. 0 0
VENEZUELA         73   It .6e 1, 960E         4,6    19. 9       30 0   289   390    77A        $I         . . ,      33         2, 4        , . ,      33        1 t 9    12,63cy



COMPARATIVE  EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONYD)                                    ANNIK  I  PASS a
MAY 6,1977
I       I       I          I         I                I       .I        I         I       I           I           I       I       I       I
I  IGNP/ I % GNP  it TOTALIK  OF PUBLIC i                 I       I          sPRI, IAV.PRI    a                       lEC  i         I
I       sCAPITAI OEVO1EDIIPUSLIC % EDUCATION    tLITER'. t PRI, ICOMPLE'  eSTUs ISCH.TEACH,FROSPE&530: SEE,  $$Tu. I                      I
I       I  Al  I TO EDU,I   EXP,  I RECURReNT    lACY          IENROLLITION       IDENT3ISALARY INSION RATE UENROLLSDENTISHIGHERI
I       IMARKeTI  CPUBLJCbDEVOTEDoEXP ALLOCATEDI   RATE IRATID IRATt PORIPER  iRELATION IFROM PRI,o*ATIO  SPUR  s9NROLLI
a POP, IPRICESIO  EXP.   I  TO    I         Too      mI(  OF  I NEt  IpRI.SCH..TEACN1 TO GNP/ $TO SEC.  I NET  ITIACH. RAT0i,
YRSHILLS.1 CUSS)g ONLY)  I  [DU. *PRI, SiC. MItiAOULTS)i  (%)  ICYCLE(%)IERl    i CAPITA   i  (XI                   I CZ)  siR    I (K       I
I CI) is  (2) I  (3)    I  (4)  I           Cs)       I (6)    I CT)  I  (a)    I (91  I  (10)    I (11)          1(121  1(13) 1(141  a
AS1A AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    74~;  16,1  11I0                      39P  tIP  (AP    IC.        26X      24        Al        1, 0       7a         ex    21       1,00
BANGLADESH      73  76.2E    l A E       1...   ...  *,                     23       56K       I..      48        ...-.                231     25       *..
CMINACTAOWANi 73  )5, 7E    SioE        3,2    t4 o      48.  41   22       82       98C       94       40       14,0        84        AIC     26     20,000
INDIA           71 599,6E    t40E    2.6147  ,           ..       .   ,.    29       791       .         3AA      ,.         ,.       25K      20AY    4,00AY
INDOUNESIA      74 136F        220G     3 9F  itluF    69   at   10         605      79X      43        30        2,00,      52        59K     14      2.00
IRAN            73 133.IE 1,250E        3.1     1939~1 112 I                          7       7A         2        505        BOA      24       32      4.32CY
IRAQ            72  IO.mE 1IIloE        6,7   16,1DR ~, ,,26                         6ICY       .       22        ,..        *.I      26Kcy  26        6,28CY
JURDAN          73   2,AE    430E       I 0      a98    13a   15   21    539         911      76        i8        5,0        84       5ox    22         4.00
KOREA           75  35.3       910      2.9      b,ouR   653   33     2    920    1041        98        92        3.5        77       55K      38      7,8
LEBANON         72   3,1E l,07ok        3,5    18,0      39    40    10    68        86       65        19        2.0        63        26U     25     23.00
MALAYSIA        74  11,7       680      6'/(   28,0      44    31    It    6CC       96F       90       32        4,0D       83F       44F     27F      3,OOF
OIMAN           72   O.7E I , bbE       A,IN   3,a    96        -           20       2141     99        33        7.0                  0,4K     9       P-
PAKIS(AN        75  69,0       130E     1,6    616,2     45   25    1s    21         47K      50        39        2,0        ,..       17      18       6,00
PAPUA N.G,      79   2,6       4110     5.6    16,)      38    16   24      32       577       73F      31       11,0        90        12X?    24       0,90?
PHILIPPINES    74  41,4E    330E        2.9    14,9      73    Is    12    87       104K       I..      34       15,0        ,..       46%     I..   21.00
SINGAPORE       72   2,2E 2,240E        3.1    16,2      44    31    IS    iSA       qAY       72A      35        v ,,       99A      STY      24       8,25Y
SYRIA           75    7.4      660      3.6   6,9        39   25    26    55         89        70       39        2. 0       92       45       21     12, 00
THA1L,AND       73  4070C   3toE        4 ONF 2o 7F    *5,   9   15         4R       571      93C       32        3,0 U      91C      21X      24      2,00
TURKEY          72  37,90    600D       t. 3,ODR  ., ,.    ,,                .,     C01E      ...       340Y      ..,        O..      22XV    27DY    5,315Y
YEMEN           73   6,4E    linE       05       4,0     4F21P ;    3 P'  10         15K       18       36        5,0        75'        21     19       0.osSy
YEMEN P.D,R.  72    1,6E   220E    02 ,3A  12.6          79    12           to1      701      Si        29       10.0        99        12K     20       O,OSAY
NUMBER OF COUNTHIESI                     74i    73      70   69   69       71       89       55        78          S3       55       79       7s        74
RANGEI                               (0, S.   (31*8.  (25. CO.  (0.    (5.       (10.      (17.      (19'       (1.5"    (t-       (,4.,   (9.      (.01.
t2.OP )  32,3)  96) 52)  40)   98)             184K)    991    65)           25.0)    991       75,0)  43)       23,0)
QUARTILESIUPPER 1                     5.2   22 I       55    31   22      75      87        75        46          a       80        29       26      6.0
MEDIANI                   4,0    18,0(    415  23    15       50       71       50        38          9       63        16       23      2,00
LUwER S                   3,0    13.9      38    16    12     21       52       30        31          3       a5         9       2 0       .9
SYMBOLSI... DATUM UNAVAILAB    ------E------- -OR--E-OR---M----RR-N--PR---------------
MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8.1971                            NGOPF....
?  QUESTInNABLE                      C.1972                       POINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMN3SI  AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INLLUDES PART.11ME STUDENTS D.1973                             GNCENTRAL GOVT.  ONLY                                          OR IBRD MISSIONS
**CUMBINED WITH PRIMARY             E-1974                      R*MIN13TRY OF EDUCArION (MOE) ONLY                    3 TO 14 ISOA  MISSIONS
F31975                      S.MOE AND STATE Govr, ONLY                                     AND/DR UNESCO
Gm)976                      TuEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
UPPUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
VgINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
KaSINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YXUNESCO SOURCES
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
COMPARArIVE EDUC.ATIIlN DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, MUWEVER#ON THi BASIS Of THE PRESENT DATA#C#033.NATIONAL COMPARISON HO6LLD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION, DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOCVE TABLE HAVE SEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE SANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCEES   THE
REMAINDeR ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROH UNESCO, EFFORTS HAVE SEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA, NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARC STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION nP ITS OPERATIONAL WORK, IN THF USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD SE BORNE IN
MINDs
(1)EDUCATOON4 AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FURMAL AND NON9.FORMALI
(2)"PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATIUN AT THr FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (C,G, GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(I3)'LITERACY RATEB'CCOL,6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES, IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFDRM DEFINITION OF "LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
C4)'PU5LIC EXPENDITURE IN EDVCATION1(COLB,3p4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES#
C5)OCNROLLMENT RATIOS'CCOLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OP ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOIL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES [IWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATACI,E, AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND IENROLLMENTS8), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCNOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED  By
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE TME RATIOS,



ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
Trends in Key Educational Demogranhic IndicatQrs, 1971-2000
Units        1971  1974  1979  1984  2000
A. Primary (SD)
1. School Age Population (ages 7-12) millions        19.4  21.2  23.2  24.9  36.9
Enrollment (Grades 1-6)*
2.      General                        millions      12.5  13.3  16.4  20.6  33.2
3.      Religious                      millions       3.3   4.1   3.6   3.6   3.7
4.      Total                          millions      15.8  17.4  20.0  24.3  36.9
5:      Percent Religious                  %          21    24    18    15    10
6.      Percent Female, General           %           45    45      -      -    49+
Enrollment Ratios*
7.             Public                      %          64    63    71    83    90
8.              Total                      %          81    79    86    98   100
B. Lower Secondary (SMP)
1. School Age Population (age 13-15) millions         8.0   9.2  10.6  11.5  15.7
Enrollment (Grades 7-9)*
2.      General                        millions       1.4   1.7   2.0   3.3   5.9
3.      Religious                      millions         .4    .5    .4    .4    .4
4.      Total                          millions       1.8   2.2   2.4   3.7   6.3
5.      Percent Religious                  %          22    23    17    11        6
6.      Percent Female, General            %          39    41       -     -    45
Enrollment Ratios*
7.             Public                                 14    19    19    29    38
8.              Total                      %          23    24    23    32    40
C. Senior Secondary (SLTA)
1. School Age Population (age 16-18) millions          6.6   7.8   9.6  10.9  13.9
Enrollment (Grades 10-12)*
2.      General                        millions         .7    .8   1.0   1.2   2.1
3.      Religious                      millions         .1    .2    .2    .2    .3
4.      Total                          millions         .8   1.0   1.2   1.4   2.4
5.      Percent Religious                  %          13    20    17    14    13
6.      Percent Female, General            %           33    35     -      -    40
Enrollment Ratios*
7.             Public                      %          11    10    10    11    15
8.              Total                      %          12    12       -     -    17
*  Enrollments and enrollment ratios include over-age students.
Sources:    Ministry of Education and Culture.
1971 and 1974 - Actual;
1979 and 1984 - Official government projections,except lines 8, which are
mission estimates;
2000 - School age population (lines 1) are official Government projec-
tions. All other tigures are mission estimates, based on trends
for previous years and logical absolute parameters (100 E.R. and
49% female).
March 1977



ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
Age and Sex Distribution and Progression Rates
by Grade, 1974
Mean                            Rates ()
Level        Grade   Age    Female   Dropout   Repetition   Promotion   Graduation
Primary         1      7.5      47        5           17           78             _
2      8.7      45        8           13           79             -
3      9.9      46       13           11           76             _
4     10.9      45       16           10           74             -
5     12.0      44       15            7           78             _
6     12.9      43        8            2            -            89
Lower
Secondary      7     13.9      41       10            4           86
8     14.9      41        9            3           88             -
9     16.1      41        9            3            -            88
Upper
Secondary    10      17.0      37       10            5           85
11     i8.o      35        7             4          89             _
12     19.3      34        8            4            -            88
Institutes    10      17.3      55       13            3           84             _
11     18.5      59       17            3           80             -
12     19.5      57        5            4            _            91
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture Statistics, November 1976
March 1977



ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
Qualifications of Primary and Lower Secondary Teachers
by Province and Region, 1974
Primary                           Lower Secondary
.  Percent            I                 Percent
No. of              Partly        Un-      No. of                  Un-
Province/Regions           TeachersIQualified Qualified qualified Teachers  Qualified Qualified
1. Jakarta                  15,065      14.9       70.6       14.5      5,470        68.1       31.9
2. West Java                64,837      54.2       34.5       11.3      9,704        49.1       50.9
3. Central Java             79,741      44.8       41.0       14.2    12,458         61.5       38.5
4. Jogyakarta               13,753      59.9        28.9      11.2       4,888       66.5       33.5
5. East Java                76,775      45.5       43.1       11.4    13,941         53.4       46.6
Java              25,71        <T5         41.       T27      46,467        57.8       42.2
6. Aceh                      6,029      36.2       50.9       12.9       1,416       59.8       40.2
7. North Sumatra            33,615      38.2       47.3       14.5      7,785        62.0       38.0
8. West Sumatra             15,338      43.0       42.0       15.0       2,218       48.2       51.8
9. Riau                      6,515      30.1       53.3  1   16.6          987       58.9       41.1
10. Jambi                     4,397       35.0       42.1       22.9        469       1.2       28.8
11. South Sumatra             14,326      29.2       40.5       30.3      2,436       46.7       53.3
26. Bengkulu                   2,346      16.3       50.3       33.4        496       25.8       74.2
12. Lampung                   10,570      28.2       60.1       11.7      1,195       57.5       42.5
Sumatra            79,13        35.1       47.3  |        17 .6    17,00    56.5       43.5
13. West Kalimantan            5,521      31.6       41.4       27.0      1,256       33.9       66.1
14. Central Kalimantan         5,019 |   18.3        73.2        8.5        778       31.9       68.1
15. South Kalimantan           7,274      22.2       60.4       17.4        860       69.4       30.6
16. East Kalimantan            3,398     19.1        60.4       20.5        602       42.5       57.5
Kalimantan          21,212      23.1       58.6       18:3                  43.7       56.3
17. North Sulawesi            13,315      42.8       44.0       13.2      2,394       38.0       62.0
18. Central Sulawesi           4,818      48.6       44.8        6.6        493       28.2       71.8
19. South Sulawesi            21,597      67.2       19.1       13.7      2,383       86.4       13.6
20. Southeast Sulawesi         3,028      39.9       53.1        7.0        492       85.2       14.8
Sulawesi             T,/75B    755T   ~ T             12.3       76.2       6
21. Maluku                     5,983      26.4       71.7        1.9      1,185       38.5       61.5
22. Bali                       7,800      62.1       34.7        3.2  1  2,258        53.2       46.8
23. W. Nusatenggara            7,361      28.8       56.6       14.6        874       38.4       61.6
24. E. Nusatenggara           11,590      36.7       57.3        6.0  1  1,664        52.4       47.6
25 . IrianJaya                 4,230      26.4       71.7        1.9        622       59.8       40.2
Eastern Islands    36,964J    37.6         56.4        6.0      6,603       49.0       51.0
Nation          444,241      43.1       43.7       13.2     79,324       56.4       43.6
Definitions:
Primary
Qualified - SPG, SGA, HIK, Sarajana Muda, Sarjana, SGPLB
Partly qualified - SGB or SPG classes 1 & 2, KPG, KGA, CVO, OVVO, PGSLP
Unqualified - all other
Lower Secondary
Qualified - PGSLP, Sarjana Muda, Sarjana
Unqualified
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture Statistics, November 1976
April 1977



ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
Institute (SPG) and Senior High School (SMA) Staff -
Qualifications by Region and Age Distribution, 1974
Total            Qualified                   Unqualified
Qualification                    Staff      arjana  Sarjana   Total   PGSLP*  Others    Total
By Region                    Number    Muda %        %         %        %        %          %
Institutes (SPGs)
1.  Java                        4,310       61          13        74     6.7       19        26
2.  Sumatra                     1,520        71          3.7     74      9.2       16        26
3.  Kalimantan                     310      48           2.2     50    21          29        50
4.  Sulawesi                       710       50          7.1     57    11          32        43
5.  Eastern                        750      47           3.6     50    18          31        50
6.  Total Institutes            7,610       60           9.4     70      9.3       21        30
Senior High Schools (SMA)
7.  Java                       14,760        71        15        86      2.1       12        14
8.  Sumatra                     5,400        75          7.5     83      3.9       13        17
9.  Kalimantan                  1,060       48           3.2     51    17          31        49
10.  Sulawesi                     2,160       56          8.1      64    16         20        36
11.  Eastern                      1,810       58          5.2      63    12         24        37
12.  Total Senior High Schools 25,190         69         12        80     5         14        20
-20      21-30        31-40  41-50    51+       Total
Age Distribution                   %          %           %       %       %       Staff
13.  Institutes                     -         21         55        20     3.1      7,610
14.  Senior High Schools            0.2       20         52        25     3.1    25,190
Years of Teaching                 0-4       5-8        9-12    13-16  17-20    21-24         25+
Experience                     %         %          %         %       %         %          %
15.  Institutes                     23        26         17        12     12         5.7       3.6
16.  Senior High Schools            27        25         19        13      9.3       4.0       2.5
*  PGSLP - One intensive course to prepare teachers for lower secondary schools.
Note: Figures do not add due to roundings
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture statistics, November 1976.
March 1977



ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
Relationships Between Teacher Education Institutions, 1976
Primary                                   Primary and Secondary                                 Secondary
In-Service                                 Pre-Service Training                                   In-Service
Trainer's       ..........                    IKIP/FIP/FKg                      ..........           BPG
Workshop                                                                                               _
PGSLP
I=                        II  '' 
Mobile        .......           SPG                                 SMA          ----- -1 _
Tea ms
I_                                                                                    l
l                                              SMP D-_
L_____^                      SD
-          -      In-Service Training of Teachers or Teacher Trainers.
... ......       Provision of staff on consultancy basis.
Pre-Service Training of Teachers or Trainers.
IKIP/FIP/FKg     Secondary teacher training (grades 13-15).
PGSLP            Crash program for junior secondary teachers (grade 13).
SPG              Primary teacher training (grade 10-12).
BPG              In-Service training centers at IKIPs.
SMA              Senior Secondary Schools.
SMP              Junior Secondary Schools.
SD               Primary Schools.
April 1977                                                                                        World Bank -17423



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
The Government's Proposed Program of Consolidation
and Expansion of Public Primary Teacher Training Institutes
Number of          Institute          Comparative
Province and Region                Institutes  enrollment or capacity  Training Ratio
1974    1984   1974           1984      1974      1984
1.  Jakarta                         6       4   1,300         3,400       0.45     0.94
2.  West Java                      22      17   5,600        18,000       0.37     0.95
3.  Central Java                   26      18   7,900        17,300       0.54     0.95
4.  Jogyakarta                      7        4   3,300        2,000       1.94     0.97
5.  East Java                      29      20   9,300        L9s900       0.56     0.95
Java                          90      63  27,300       60,700       0.54      0.95
6.  Aceh                            7        3   1,800        1,800       1.13     0.92
7.  North Sumatra                  14        7   6,900        6,600       1.25     0.95
8.  West Sumatra                    9        5   1,500        3,000       0.60     0.96
9.  Riau                            4        3     700        1,600       0.54     0.95
10.  Jambi                           3        1     700        1,400       0.81     1.30
11.  South Sumatra                   4        3   1,100        3,200       0.40     0.92
26.  Bengkulu                        2        1     200          500       0.38      0.80
12.  Lampung                         7        3   2,300        2,700       0.97     0.92
Sumatra                       50      26  15,200       20,800       0.87      0.95
13.  West KalAmantan                 6        3   1,200        1,800       0.82      0.98
14.  Central Kalimantan              4        3     400          900       0.64      1.06
15.  South Kalimantan                5        3     600       1,400        0.54     0.95
16.  East Kalimantan                 1        1     100          900       0.10      1.17
Kalimantan                    16      10   2,300        5,000       0.59      1.01
17.  North Sulawesi                  6        4   2,000        2,100       1.21      0.98
18.  Central Sulawesi                5        3    900           900       1.16      0.91
19.  South Sulawesi                 17        7  1,600        4,800        0.39      0.97
20.  Southeast Sulawesi              4        3    400         1,100       0.84      1.72
Sulawesi                      32      17  4,900         8,900       0.71      1.02
21.  Maluku                          3        2  1,500        1,200        1.54      0.94
22.  Bali                            3        2    900        2,300        0.46      0.96
23.  W. Nusatenggara                 4        3    900        2,300        0.46      0.92
24.  E. Nusatenggara                 4        3  1,400        2,700        0.70      1.06
25.  Irianjaya                       3        2    900           900       1.13      0.91
Eastern Islands               17      12  5,600         9,400       0.73      0.96
Nation                             205      128 55,300      104,800        0.64      0.96
Average Enrollment per Institute                    270          820
Ranges:  High                       29       20                            1.94      1.72
Low                        1        1                            0.10      0.80



ANNEX 7
Page 2
DEFINITIONS
The Comparative Training Ratio approximates the long-term balance between supply
and demand and is defined as actual enrollment (1974) or projected capacity
(1984) divided by the estimated enrollment required in a certain area to balance
population growth and teacher wastage at a constant pupil enrollment ratio.
This ratio differs from the supply demand ratio as it does not take into account
trends in enrollment ratios nor surplus or deficit in stock of teachers nor
migration of teachers. However, it illustrates long term effects well as the
ratio should gradually approach 1.0. It was above calculated on the basis of:
83% enrollment ratio (excluding children in religious and private schools),
a pupil/teacher ratio of 40, a population growth of 2.33% per annum, a teacher
stock wastage of 3.00% per annum and an effective output of 72 teachers for an
enrollment of 285 (100 annual intake).
OBSERVATIONS
Three important results of the Government's expansion and consolidation pro-
gram can be noted from the table above.
1.        The quantitative supply of teachers would approach the estimated
long term demand, as the "Comparative Training Ratio" for the Nation improves
from 0.64 to 0.96.
2.        Training opportunities and teacher output would become more evenly
distributed throughout the country. "Comparative Training Ratio" would be
close to 1.0 for most Provinces, and the range would be reduced from 0.1-1.9
in 1974 to the narrower range of 0.8-1.7 in 1984.
3.        The Institutes would become more economical, average enrollment
growing from 270 to 820 pupils.
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture Statistics, November 1976.
March 1977



ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
Secondary Teacher Education Enrollments, 1974
A. Enrollment by College (1974)
Enrollment
(000)
1.  IKIP   Medan                                         2,900
2.  IKIP   Padang                                        1,800
3.  IKIP   Jakarta                                      1,800
4.  IKIP   Bandung                                       3,800
5.  IKIP   Semarang                                      2,200
6.  IKIP   Jogyakarta                                    3,400
7.  IKIP   Surakarta                                    2,800
8.  IKIP   Surabaya                                      3,400
9.  IKIP   Malang                                       2,000
10.  IKIP   Ujung Pandang                                 2,500
11.  IKIP   Manado                                        1,200
Subtotal in IKIPs           27,800
12.  University faculties b  education-/and               6,500
training (FIP/Fkg) -
Total                       34,300
B. Enrollment by Faculty
Enrollment   Percentage
Teacher Training Colleges (IKIP)
Science Teaching                                    4,200           15
Technology Teaching                                 4,000           15
Social Science Teaching                             8,900           32
Arts and Letter Teaching                             4,900           18
Education                                           5,700           20
Subtotal                    27,800          100
Universities
Education (FIP)                                      2,400
Teacher Training (Fkg)                              4,100
Total                       34,300
a/ Including all faculties total University enrollment is 122,900.
b/ FIP - University Faculty of Education.
Fkg - University Faculty of Teacher Training.
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture Statistics, November 1976.
March 1977



ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
Educational Costs and Unit Costs, by Level, 1974
Sources                    Costs                   Unit Costs
Level     of Funds       Recurrent  Capital  Total       Recurrent   Capital
(Rp billions - US$ millions) (per pupil)(per place)
Primary    Public   Rp        95.6      40.0   125.6
Private  Rp       43.2       24.9    68.1
Total    Rp      138.8       54.9   193.7   Rp  7,984        49,000
US$    335        132     467      US$    19          118
Lower
Secondary Public   Rp       25.3       11.8    37.1
Private  Rp       27.9       21.2    49.2
Total    Rp       53.3       33.0    86.3   Rp 23,951       386,000
US$    128         80      208     US$    58          930
Upper
Secondary Public   Rp       21.6        5.4    27.1
Private  Rp       20.8       12.5    33.2
Total    Rp       42.4       17.9    60.3   Rp 43,915       467,500
US$    102         43     145      US$   106        1,127
Higher
Educa-    Public   Rp       10.5         .8    11.4                               Other
tion      Private  Rp        6.6         .5      7.1                Sciences    Subjects
Total    Rp       17.1        1.3    18.5   Rp 64,670   1,790,000   580,000
US$     41          3       45     US$   156        4,300      1,400
All
Levels    Public   Rp      153.1       48.1   201.2
Private  Rp       98.5       59.1   157.5
Total    Rp      251.6     107.2   358.8
US$    606        258      864
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture Statistics, November 1976.
March 1977



ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
Proposed Teacher Training Project
Schematic Project Design and Timetable
Tentative
Effective
Date
1977         I        1978                  1979                  1980                  1981                  1982                   1983
CONTEXT
75 Curr., Modules
PROJECT OPERATIONS
1. DEVELOPMENT OF PROFESSIONAL
PROJECT LEADERSHIP
Training and Work                _,relection)        F7  ing    Curr.l& Mat.                        (Coordination, Training and Development)
I   Deve Pl
2. CURRICULUM AND MATERIALS               _
DEVELOPMENT
A. Outlines for Curriculum                      IKIP
Adjustments                                  SPG
In-
Service
B. Develpmt. of Curr. & Materials                 I
Phase    IKIP
3. CONSTRUCTION                                      l                      1       14 SPG
Phase        SPG
I                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
I                                                            |  Phase       SPG
3
4. STAFF TRAINING                                                                 -Tryouts-
A. IKIPTraining                                   I                                                      A1                          Seminars
B. SPG Training                                                                                                     SPO     E      IF
I                                                      8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12  _Follom-w  Seminars
I                                                                      83 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Follow-uP]
C. Media Technician Training                                                                        FC                     _C2
5. EVALUATION AND RESEARCH
A. Evaluation - Internal                      _         Materials Try-outs                                       Feedback                        Feedback
-1--__  ___ ___ --A-+
- External                           I             Tracer Study and Detailed Analysis of End Products
Tr-- -- - - - -                                                                                                               l
B. Research and Sector Studies               Identification --_--     - l
- -       M-M easu rement of conditions - - -
Proposed solutions-
April 1977                                                                                                                                                World Bank - 17422



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
PROPOSED TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Scope and Sequence of a Study of Status and Deployment of Teachers
The performance of teachers in Indonesia is adversely affected by
a variety of conditions, traditions, practices and regulations. These must
be identified and proposals made for improvement of the situation if full
benefits of the proposed fifth education project are to realized.
Identification and Measurement of Conditions (Step A)
Obstacles to quality improvement through improved teacher training
would be identified and their potential significance assessed or measured.
Factors to be considered would include:
1.        Salary Levels.  Primary level teacher salaries have until April 1977
been less than two times per capita GNP, lower than all other countries in the
region. There is no salary differential between a graduate of a Primary Teacher
Training Institute (SPG) and a graduate of a Senior Secondary School (SMA) when
employed as primary school teachers.
2.        Multiple Uses of School Premises, Multiple Jobs of Teachers and Length
of School Day. School premises are often used by two or more schools each day.
School shifts are often short, perhaps too short to achieve even basic learning
objectives. Many teachers hold more than one job. These phenomena must be
examined together. Their negative and positive effects should be considered in
developing planning alternatives.
3.        Synchronization of Supply and Demand.  At various times in the past
decade graduates of SPGs have been unable to find work within reasonable time
which resulted in a disincentive to enroll at SPGs. Now, due to an extensive
school building program, teacher education institutions are under sudden strain
to produce sufficient teachers and will have to expand at a very high rate.
4.        Low Status of SPGs.  As a result of some of the above factors and
perhaps others, enrollment in SPGs has been considered one of the lowest options
for junior secondary school graduates. In most cases, only those who could not
gain admission to the senior secondary schools chose to attend SPGs. Subsequent
training is conducted in a negative psychological setting usually compounded by
inadequate physical facilities. SPG staff are paid at the same level as senior
secondary school (SMA) staff.
5.        Other conditions may include:
(a) social and cultural traditions which may cause parents to resent
the new teacher roles and the methods of teaching which the
Government seeks to introduce;
(b) poor working conditions in schools;



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(c) insufficient in-service training opportunities;
(d) small opportunities for advancement; and
(e) for women, possible sex discrimination and difficulties of
combining teaching with the many demands of motherhood and
family life in an Indonesian village.
Salary increments that became effective in April 1977, which for some groups
of primary teachers were in excess of 100, will probably have a substantial
impact on the status of teachers. An indication of such an effect has already
been seen in increasing number of applications by SPGs. The study should take
this and other government efforts to improve the education system into account.
Proposed Solutions (Step B)
The study should include formulation, discussion, costing and evaluation
of solutions to each problem identified and measured. This should mean high level
discussion on the recommendations. This step could also include experimentation
in the value and cost of proposed solutions.
Timetable
S.tep A - July 1977 to June 1978
Step B - June 1978 to June 1980
April 1977



ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
PROPOSED TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Foreign        Expert              Estimated Cost
Fellowships   Assistance
(man-montlhs)  (man-months)   US$000  Rp. millions
1. Development of Professional
Leadership                           240                           843       350.0
- National Team                   (200)
- Other Educators Assisting
the National Team             ( 40)
2. Curriculum Adjustment and
Development of Materials                             24            127        52.8
3. Development of Training
Programs                                             12             64        26.4
4. Evaluation and Studies                                36           191        79.2
- Evaluation                                      (24)
- Policy -Studies                                 ( 6)
- Project Preparation                             (6)
5. Project Management Support                           42            223        92.4
- Procurement Expert                              ( 6)
- Project Advisor                                 (36)
TOTAL                 240            114          1,448       600.8
May 1977



ANNEX 13
INDONESIA
PROPOSED TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
% of
Rupiah (millions)        US Dollars (millions)         Total
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Baseline
1. Physical Facilities-/
(a) Civil Works
- Site Development        542        292     834       1.3        0.7     2.0          6.7
- Construction          2,711     1,460   4,171        6.5        3.5    10.0         33.6
- Prof. Services          358        193     551       0.9        o.4     1.3          4.4
Total Civil Works       3,611    1945   5,556         8.7        4.6    13.3         44.7
(b) Furniture and
Equipment
- Furniture               271        146     417       o.6        o.4    10.0          3.4
- Equipment-/             441      2,499   2,940       1.1       6.o    _7.1          23.7
Total Furniture and
Equipment                 712      2,645   3,357       1.7        6.4     8.1         27.1
Total Physical Facilities 4,323       4,590   8,913      10.4        11.0    21.4         71.8
2. Technical Assistance
(a) Fellowships                 0        350     350                  0.8     o.8          2.8
(b) Experts                     0        250     250                  o.6     o.6          2.0
(c) Trainers2/                679        120     799       1.7        0.3     2.0          6.5
(d) Trainees                1,786        315   2,101       4.3        0.8     5.1         16.9
Total Technical Assistance 2,465       1,035   3,500       6.o        2.5      8.5        28.2
Baseline Costs                 6,788      5,625  12,413      16.4       13.5    29.9        100.0
Contingencies                   4,079     2,763   682         7.4        5.5    12.9          -
Total Project Costs            9,876      7,87o  17;746      23.8       19.0    42.8
Exchange Rate:  US$1.00 = Rp. 415
1/  Only academic facilities are provided under the project.
2/ Includes equipment, books and educational materials.
3/  Includes local personnel for curriculum and materials development, training evaluation
and studies.
May 1977



AlNNEX 14
0  4i      0N     0      .0     4      4
I                      5X     o4      '4' sO   
;7 ' -a                          -
C~~                         12
94    4 10  _                      4  
.!~ ~ 2--                          Z -Q^  
-       0    00    01 0    0
h0   10.  004 004 
01   00                    0.     4 
0. 4r              0.      44 o40e 
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0                 4    4       4_



INDONESIA
Proposed Teacher Training Project
Organization of Project Management
STEERING BOARD
Minister of Education and Culture (Chairman)
Secretary            Chairman              Director GeneralDrector General                         Inspector
General              R & D Education       Primary & Secondary        Higher Education             General
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ _    J E ducation   _ _ _ _ _ j H g e   d c t o        e e a
Director              Co-Director
Co-Director            Teacher Training              iKIP
Division       jII
Assistant
Director
Curriculum &                             Experimentation
Materials            Training         Experimentation          Construction    Procurement         Finance        Secretariat
Development                                 Evaluation
April 1977                                                                                                        World Bank - 17428



ANNEX 16
INDONESIA
PROPOSED TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Forecast of Disbursements
Forecast of Disbursements in
US$ million
Calendar Years    Semesterly         Cumulative        Undisbursed
and Semesters      Disbursement      Disbursement         Balance
(1)                2                (3
1977
2nd                0.3               0.3               18.7
1978
1st                 0.7               1.0                18.0
2nd                 1.1               2.1                16.9
1979
1st                 2.2               4.3                14.7
2nd                 2.5               6.8                12.2
1980
1st                 2.6               9.4                 9.6
2nd                 2.7              12.1                 6.9
1981
1st                 2.8              14.9                 4.1
2nd                 2.1              17.0                 2.0
1982
1st                 1.0              18.0                 1.0
2nd                 1.n              19.0
April 1977



INDONESIA                                                                                               I   HIGHER rDUCATloN (PTI W [   LABOR FORCE
INDONESIA                                                                      ______________rsil                              Prolessionals
ScnayTeacher T,.i-,n (IKIP .nldidng FKITI
13
,Isl-i  In-Rtut (IAINI
STRUCTURE OF THE EXISTING EDUCATION
AND TRAINING SYSTEM, 1973                                                            UPPER SECONDARY                  Acadmy 
EDUCATION (SLTA)
Im.-              .               H              I                0mi ft aw
SShool (Aliyahl
ODeeSenor   Schooi  (SNA
Sen-, Technica
LEGEND SNon-l Toe...
PmSchoo lSrolTg PeaminaSioS                               Sihool iSTM)
Sarlan  Muda, ItridaeD  rf 
G    SRADE -, F      3s D    4g-                                                      S-6, S B16
No-f-I                                                                           S-I    I-k    (                    IPSAI
Ed-caion School (SMOAI
School ISMEAI
3-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~MIDDLE
AGEY  8  6      10      11      12           13~~~~~~w.  14-  15     -     16       17      1819                    20       21        22      2
Noe. Th   oorrmetha amrurod laefo te olOto tpS f onroeoorr  Homeol tonmc                                                              LErE
phaedOt orrooele togeeri oRol -ISP)   SP.. SPP SE. KP
Sch-(STo (SKA
_ r M  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~N
LoWER SECONDARfY   Sfsondary School (SPMASKILLE
EDUCATrON ISLTP}  _      _        ~        ~        ~        ~       WOKER
Secondary--- Ed.-,-SMP
A-1  I -~~~ S.                                                                                                          UNKLLE  WOKILERS
ph ... d..t  t. g .1 h-l~  School SIK,SPMP)  SMEP, SKKP.
{ gi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~.I B}.kPLK8i



INDONESIA
PROPOSED TEACHER TRAINING PROJECT
Proposed Project Institutions
Colleges
101   Jakarta                  106   Surabaya                   111   Pontianak
102   Bandung                  107   Malang                     112   Ujung Pandang
103   Semarang                 108   Medan                      113   Menado
104   Surakarta                109   Padang                     114   Jayapura
105   Jogyakarta               110   Palembang                  115   Kupang
Subtotal
Institutes -
201   Jakarta                  223   Surabaya                   248   Palembang
202   Jakarta                  224   Jombang                    249   Lahat
203   Tanjung Karang           225   Pamekasan                  250   Bengkulu
204   Metro                    226   Palangkaraya
227   Banjarmasin                251   Pontianak
205   Bandung                  228   Barabai                    252   Singkawang
206   Serang                   229   Mataram
207   Purwakarta               230   Bima                       253   Palu
208   Cirebon                  231   Sumbawa Besar              254   Ujung Pandang
209   Sumedang                                                  255   Pare-Pare
210   Tasikmalaya              232   Banyuwangi                 256   Watampone
233   Blitar                     257   BantaEng
211   Semarang                 234   Malang                     258   Kendari
212   Salatiga                 235   Denpasar                   259   Samarinda
213   Kudus                    236   Singaraja
214   Pati                                                      260   Menado
237   Banda Aceh                 261   Tomohon
215   Surakarta                238   Langsa                     262   Gorontalo
216   Madium                   239   Medan                      263   Ambon
240   Pematang Siantar           264   Ternate
217   Jogyakarta               241   Kabanjaha
218   Bogoa                    242   Padang Sidempuan           265   Jayapura
219   Jogyakarta
220   Jogyakarta               243   Padang Panjang             266   Kupang
221   Purwokerto               244   Padang                     267   Ende
222   Purworejo                245   Bukittinggi                268   Waingapu
246   Pakan Baru
247   Jambi
Schools
301   Jakarta                  306   Surabaya                   311   Pontianak
302   Sumedang                 307   Banyuwangi                 312   Ujung Pandang
303   Semarang                 308   Medan                      313   Tomohon
304   Surakarta                309   Padang Panjang             314   Jayapura
305   Jogyakarta               310   Palembang                  315   Kupang
April 1977
1/ Institutes are grouped according to their professional association with Colleges.
This association is shown on the Maps by lines connecting Colleges with Institutes.



L<   AAND                                                                             IIB 
ALEC  2   1                                                                    N   H  ~~~~~~~~PHrUPPNE                                     FIFTH EDUCTINPRJC
-g                                                                   ~~~~~        ~         ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Snine  /  -~-"
Son/h     China       ae4%        BRUNEi4-v                                                                                                  OCLF                
t,                                                                                                                 e- 14 MIASI  N-      LJ ASATAtAAUNCEE
C                                                   ~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K A  IM  ANr 0TKA',iN(
At                                                                              LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  M. ~AtkA.tN
1<            LI                         BApApt        ~      ~       k<     iAK~it CILA  1/                    FoItts          CRAL       iA/ iSIA-
NKW"~~~~~~~~~~~~L
~~~A  VA                         BULBS             Sanda            Seit                              AWon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b~ IRN    V-1 `
JAKIA.TA                                                                                                                                                                'a o 
a  N CLL/I   L  ia   iCa             ro                   4L LOS.5L1
.4~~~~4






IBRD 12760
106,                                                                 10                                                                    120            THAILANDl7                                            MARCH 19P7
N,,            ~~~~BRUNEI
Sum  atera                              INDONESIA                                                                          L A          s                       PAC!FC CFA-'J
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                         AINTSINGAPE TAN'' J,_                 _
A         NI   I,-A'4SIAN JAYAIz
0Metro                                                                                                  COLLEGES                                           ,i
0 4204                                                                                           I*     CLEE
*    INSTITUTES(TYPE A)                                                   I ,       ;TIM-R
A4   INSTITUTES (TYPE B)
oTanjung Ka  gE    INSTITUTES(TYPE C)
.   \  \             .       N                       Zi  PRIMARY SCHOOLS                                           ;                  ;      imply rEdtsrsetnCrt tb sceptrnL  bv the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imly  ndrseentorsttptAsc byth
A PRIMARY SCHOOLSWod  nknd1
-60                                     AKARTA       .
Serango       \
206 [           0
\  201P1.jkaa2
.                 \301A                                            ',                                                                                      5  \    1 01,l,
\0W           207 Pu rwakarta
'-- \102                208                                                KudusO    -]                                      28(Br--4
BandungoM- oSumedang [4.ieol103                                                      213    24'N>   ', dr
" ,,,:  E \  O'9v                                   SemarangO                  ~                                24O Mc d              urak9
21o0 [OTasikmalaya            CPurwokerto           Sa2atI9aOW212                                          223             -   =[4Mataram
,04 0Surakrta                     224BmJombang   "                                 -a
~~~~ 0~~~~Madiun   224[4Sobang
Puror2C)15 0                                 [216                                  .         -   -bsara
222 --~ 2\Jogyakarta                                                                                          A
* KILOMETERS    -                                                                                                                             :                                                 Denpaasar'- -
60 sra6  Irj9                                                         1                                                                   S i n   a



