                      Document of
                    The World Bank


                                             Report No: 71503 v1




                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                         ON A

           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                          OF
           SOCIAL SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT
CREDIT (APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON JUNE 7, 2001) AND LOAN
      (APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON MARCH 17, 2009)


                         TO
                       ALBANIA


                     JULY 25, 2012
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

IT Information Technology
SII Social Insurance Institute




              Regional Vice President:        Philippe Le Houerou
                     Country Director:        Jane Armitage
             Sector Manager / Director:       Kathy Lindert/Ana Revenga
                    Task Team Leader:         Lorena Kostallari


                                          2
                 ALBANIA — SOCIAL SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT
                                    P055383

                                           ANNEX 3:
                                    Extension of Closing Date


1. This is to seek your approval of a level II project restructuring - extension, following the
   endorsement (by the VP – OPCS) of a waiver to the three-year rule for the closing date
   extension, for the Albania Additional Financing to the Social Services Delivery Project
   (P055383). The closing date extension was requested by the Government of the Republic
   of Albania by letter dated June 19, 2012. The extension of the closing date is requested
   for six months, from September 30, 2012, until March 30, 2013. The extension is
   required to complete the procurement of equipment and furniture for the digital social
   insurance archive of the Social Insurance Institute (SII).

2. This is the third extension of the Project. It cumulatively brings the total extension period
   to five years (three years of which was for Additional Financing). An IDA Credit in the
   amount of SDR 7.9 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) was approved by the Bank for
   the Albania Social Services Delivery Project on June 7, 2001. In March 2008, the
   original closing date of the IDA Credit was extended by 18 months from March 30, 2008,
   to September 30, 2009. In March 2009, the Bank approved Additional Financing for the
   Project in the amount of US$ 5.0 million through an IBRD loan to support scaling up of
   Project activities related to the administration reform of the country’s pension system. At
   that time, the project development objective (PDO) was modified to include the
   improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of the pension system in Albania through
   the improvement of pension system administration, institutional strengthening, and better
   public understanding of the pension system. The closing date for the IBRD loan was
   September 30, 2012, and the closing date for the IDA credit was also extended to
   September 30, 2012.

3. As noted above, the additional six-month extension of the project closing date is needed
   to complete the procurement of two packages: electrical system, fire alarm and
   extinguishers for the Archive; and the shelves for storing insurance system's paper
   evidence. The SII has already completed the physical rehabilitation of its Archive
   building and purchased the IT system for its Archive and regional offices. However, in
   accordance with technical requirements for the functionality of the Archive building, the
   building cannot be used without having in place the electrical system as well as fire alarm
   and extinguishers, to bring the building up to code. Also, the digital document archive
   for registering contributions and calculating pension benefits cannot be functional
   without the shelving.

4. The main reason for the delays has been lack of commitment among the previous
   management of SII to timely implementation of project activities. Following the
   approval of the Additional Financing, the project counterparts changed: from experienced
   and well-performing Ministry of Labor, to the inexperience Social Insurance Institute
   (SII). The SII management was incompetent and unfamiliar with the World Bank’s
   procurement procedures. Despite the Bank team’s efforts to provide training and hands-
                                                 3
   on advice on procurement issues, a number of disagreements occurred with the Bank over
   the evaluation of some of the main procurement packages, causing serious
   implementation delays. In March 2012, the Government replaced the SII management,
   putting a stronger and more competent team in place. The new management is very
   committed but has little time left to achieve the project’s results.

5. Accordingly, due to the implementation delays, the Project's Development Objective
   (DO) and Implementation Progress (IP) are rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
   original project objectives have been fully achieved, as evidenced by key outcome
   indicators, including: (i) establishment of 43 daily care centers serving 25,000 clients;
   (ii) 14 residential care centers met the general social care services standards; and (iii) 8
   residential care centers met the relevant service user specific standards. In addition, the
   Government developed proper social care policies and strengthened the capacity for
   delivery and monitoring of social care. Actually, thirty-eight percent of the AF loan
   ($1.9 million) is disbursed and fifty-six percent ($2.8 million) has been committed.
   However, procurement of two ICB ($ 2.2 million) and four shopping packages supporting
   the administrative reform of the pension system, currently in progress, may not be
   completed by the present closing date, thus hindering the achievement of the PDO.

6. The six-month extension of the closing date, would enable the completion of all
   remaining activities, help ensure disbursement of remaining funds, and allow for
   successful achievement of the PDO. It would also help to ensure sustainability of
   investments completed so far since the Government, due to the current fiscal constraints,
   may not be able to support the remaining investments from the state budget.

7. There are no proposed changes to the PDO or results framework. The Project's Financial
   Management is currently rated Satisfactory, reflecting overall appropriate financial
   management arrangements and adoption of all previous recommendations for further
   system strengthening. There are no outstanding audit reports for the Project and the last
   one presented an unqualified opinion.




                                                4
