                    103175




  Republic of Albania

Social Service Delivery Project

          Redacted Report


                    Official Use Only
                                                                           Official Use Only

                            Statement of Use and Limitations

This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group (the WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency
(INT). It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the Investigation) into
allegations of corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the
WBG for purposes of its own policies, rules and procedures (the WBG’s Framework
regarding Anti-corruption), in relation to the WBG-supported activities. The purpose of
the Investigation was to allow the WBG to determine if the WBG’s Framework regarding
Anti-corruption has been violated.

This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are aware of the results of the INT
Investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited purpose of the Investigation
underlying this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole basis for initiating any
administrative, criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report should not be cited
or otherwise referred to in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports, or
in any administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings.

This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on
the institutions comprising the WBG and their officers and employees by their respective
constituent documents and any other applicable sources of law. The WBG reserves the
right to invoke its privileges and immunities, including at any time during the course of an
investigation or a subsequent judicial, administrative or other proceeding pursued in
connection with this matter. The WBG’s privileges and immunities cannot be waived
without the prior express written authorization of the WBG.




                                             1
                                                                           Official Use Only




                                  Executive Summary

This report provides the findings of an administrative inquiry by the World Bank Group
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations that Company A may have engaged in
misconduct in connection with the Social Services Delivery Project (the Project) in the
Republic of Albania.

Company A submitted a bid for a contract (the Contract) under the Project. The Contract
tender required bidders who did not manufacture the equipment they proposed to supply to
submit a Manufacturer’s Authorization Form (MAF), which is issued by the manufacturer
and authorizes the bidder to offer its goods for the Contract. To satisfy this requirement,
Company A submitted a MAF, which was purportedly issued by Company B.

Evidence indicates that the MAF submitted by Company A was false. Specifically,
evidence indicates that Company B informed the Project Coordinating Unit that it had not
issued the MAF submitted by Company A.

In its response to INT’s inquiry, Company A claimed that Company C, Company B’s
exclusive distributor in the Balkans, had provided the MAF to Company A. However,
during INT’s investigation, Company C informed INT that it had not issued the MAF
submitted by Company A.

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company
A. This ineligibility extends to any legal entity Company A directly or indirectly controls.




                                             2
                                                                                       Official Use Only

Background

The International Development Association (IDA)1 and Albania signed a Development
Credit Agreement for the Social Services Delivery Project (the Project) for approximately
US$ 12 million. The Project subsequently was funded by a US$ 5 million Loan Agreement
for Additional Financing between the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and Albania. The Project’s objectives were to improve the standards
of living of poor and vulnerable population groups in Albania.

The Project Coordinating Unit of the Government of Albania (the PIU) published an
Invitation for Bids (IFB) and International Competitive Bidding Documents (ICB
Documents) for a contract (the Contract) under the Project. The IFB required bidders who
did not manufacture the equipment they proposed to supply to submit a Manufacturer’s
Authorization Form (MAF), which is issued by the manufacturer and authorizes the bidder
to offer its goods for the Contract.

Company A submitted its bid for the Contract. The bid contained several MAFs, including
one that purportedly was issued by Company B. Following bid submission, the PIU sought
verification of the MAF from Company B. Evidence suggests that Company B informed
the PIU that it had not issued the MAF to Company A. Nevertheless, the PIU did not
disqualify Company A’s bid, and requested that Company A extend its bid validity on three
separate occasions. Upon the PIU’s request to extend the bid validity for the third time,
Company A replied that it “will not proceed with the third extension of the bid validity and
respective bid security validity.” Thus, Company A’s bid was not considered for further
evaluation.

Allegations

The World Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) was informed of the PIU’s
correspondence with Company B regarding the MAF submitted by Company A.

Methodology

INT’s investigation consisted of, among other things, a review of Project documents and
the PIU’s correspondence with Company B, as well as statements obtained from Company
A and Company C, Company B’s exclusive distributor in the Balkans.

Findings

Evidence indicates that Company A submitted a false MAF in its bid for the Contract.

After reviewing the PIU’s correspondence with Company B, INT sent a letter to Company
A, requesting Company A’s response on this matter. In its response, Company A stated
that it had not intentionally or knowingly submitted a false document. Company A claimed

1
  IDA and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) are two of the five institutions
comprising the World Bank Group. The IBRD, IDA, and the World Bank are used interchangeably
throughout this Report.


                                                    3
                                                                           Official Use Only

that it had negotiated the supply of Company B goods through Company C, Company B’s
exclusive distributor in the Balkans. According to Company A, Company C provided the
MAF which was included in Company A’s bid.

When INT contacted Company C to verify Company A’s assertions, Company C informed
INT that “such letter of Authorization is not issued, composed and/or elaborated by our
company or company staff.”

Follow-Up Action by the World Bank

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company
A. This ineligibility extends to any legal entity Company A directly or indirectly controls.




                                             4
