                                                                                                                 99843
Helping Families and Children with Special Needs in Albania
Ana Gjokutaj, Communications Officer in the Tirana Office,
offers this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
Mother of three, Yllka sighs with relief while watering the
garden and cleaning classrooms at a day care center for
children with disabilities on Tirana's outskirts.

She has just dropped off her five year old son at mainstream
kindergarten. Her two older children go to class here.
Fourteen year old Melisa does not speak at all and has other
learning disabilities. Twelve year old Ferdinando has autism
and epilepsy. Before Yllka found out about this first of its kind
center in Albania for children with learning disabilities, she      Related Links
was home alone and unsure how best to educate her older
children. There were no programs for them and there was no          The World Bank in Albania
support for her.                                                    Albania Country Snapshot
                                                                    Social Sector Reform DPL
Yllka is happy with the progress her children are making at
the center, called Let's Stay Together. "I can tell while we are    Social Service Delivery Project
getting ready in the morning how much they enjoy coming to          Additional Financing
the center," says Yllka. She also gets support and guidance         Social Services Delivery Project
from staff on how to face the challenges of raising her
                                                                    Social Safety Net Project
disabled youngsters. Yllka brought her children so regularly
and volunteered such long hours that the center eventually          Albanian Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs
                                                                    and Equal Opportunities
offered her a job.
                                                                    State Social Service
The other children who come here love it as much as Melisa
                                                                    State Labor Inspectorate Albania
and Ferdinando. Their parents feel the staff's care and
dedication. The environment is cheery, too. Thanks to               State Employment Service
support from the World Bank, Let's Stay Together renovated          Helping Families and Children with
its school building and equipped rooms for their special needs      Special Needs in Albania
                                                                    FEATURED VIDEO (Albanian Version)
children.

                         The center is a peaceful and colorful place set in a former wood processing
                         factory, all on one level to make it easier to care for those with disabilities.
                         There are over 500 square meters of gardens with a playground. Every day,
                         about 50 disabled children come to play and have therapy. Once they turn
                         eighteen, they cannot come five days a week, but many show up as often as
                         they can to do crafts and see their friends. Recently, with the assistance of the
                         municipality, the center started serving free lunch.

Yllka Fejzolli           Rajmonda Prifti, center's director, says that the project's assistance came at the
                         right time. "We had wanted to have better conditions for the children and adults
here, but the building was old and in bad shape. Now, thanks to the World Bank project we have five
different specialized rooms for different activities, two specialized rooms with computers and another
one where we work with autistic children."

                         As she talks, she hugs the students and smiles at them. The center's
                         philosophy is to shower the children and their parents with love. And it shows.
                         They think of her as mother, sister and friend. Those who can't talk express their
                         thanks with their eyes. When Rajmonda walks into classrooms in the morning,
                         students try to catch her attention and show her what they have accomplished.

                       One of them is ten year old Sajmir, who is autistic. He does not talk, but he
                       brightens when he sees Rajmonda and keeps a paper with the imprint of her
Rajmonda Prifti        kiss in lipstick on it to show his parents. Luljeta Zylfo has been attending the
                       center for years. She can come by herself now and sometimes does crafts and
earns a small amount of money. Most of all, she is proud that one of her drawings won first prize in an
international competition and was made into a Christmas card.

The model and the support given by the World Bank through the Social Services Delivery Project have
been replicated by the municipality of Tirana which supported this and other similar centers.

                       Since Let's Stay Together opened its doors, 13 residential care services centers
                       in eight different cities in Albania have been assisted by the project. And over
                       25,000 people with special needs benefited.

                       The project has a broader scope, too. In addition to helping day care centers, it
                       has supported the drafting of a new social services law. Strengthening the
                       legislative framework assists those at the margins of Albanian society. In
                       addition, the project helped strengthen local government capacity to provide
Luljeta Zylfo          better social services, which was key to a successful implementation of the
                       project.
