Page  1
CONFORMED COPY    
 
LOAN NUMBER 7827-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Fiscal Sustainability, Human Development and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan 
-
Programa de Desenvolvimento Econômico, Social e de Sustentabilidade Fiscal do Estado do 
Rio de Janeiro – PRODESF
)
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
 
Dated March 22, 2010 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7827-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 22, 2010, entered into between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and THE STATE OF RIO DE 
JANEIRO (“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate expenditure program and fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor. 
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred and eighty five million Dollars 
($485,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
The Borrower’s 
representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
pursuant to this Section is the Borrower’s Secretary of Finance.    
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
Page  4
2
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, in each case with the prior non-objection of the 
Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the Guarantor’s 
Ministry of Finance, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the 
Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan 
Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the 
setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of: (i) any situation that would 
have the effect of materially compromising the objectives of the Program or 
reversing any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in 
Page  5
3
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) any situation that would affect 
its fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower’s expenditure program, and/or its fiscal arrangements with the 
Guarantor has/have become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on August 2, 
2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except for the purposes of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s Representative 
is its Governor. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Palácio Guanabara 
Rua Pinheiro Machado, s/n 
Rio de Janeiro – RJ, 22231-090 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-3773 
 
With copies to: 
 
SEAIN – Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do Ministério do Planejamento, 
Orçamento e Gestão 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K – 5º andar 
Brasília – DF, 70040-906 
Brazil 
 
Page  6
4
Facsimile: (55-61) 2020-5006 
 
Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda 
Rua da Alfândega, 42 – 1º andar 
Rio de Janeiro - RJ,  20070-000 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-21) 2334-4513 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Rio de Janeiro, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
 
By/s/ Sergio Cabral 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Makhtar Diop 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program, aimed to improve fiscal management, 
competitiveness and social service delivery, include the following:  
 
A.
 
Strengthen Fiscal Adjustment, Improving Tax Administration and Controlling Public 
Expenditures.
 
1. 
The Borrower, through its Governor, has adopted the necessary measures to ensure that the 
Borrower’s social security system is capitalized with oil-based revenues and that those 
transfers are protected from reallocation by executive discretion, as evidenced by the 
Borrower’s Decree 42.011/2009 of August 28, 2009. 
2. 
The Borrower, through SEFAZ, has adopted the necessary measures for the enhancement 
and improvement of the Borrower’s tax collection system, through: (i) the recruitment of 
qualified staff to join SEFAZ, as well as providing training for the upgrade of qualified 
existing staff, as evidenced by: (a) the publication in the Borrower’s Official Gazette 
(
Diario Oficial do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
)
of the administrative order (
Ato do 
Governador
)
dated November 26, 2008, containing the names and classification of new 
staff for various positions recruited through selected public exams (
Concursos
); (b) 
SEFAZ's publication in the Official Gazette on December 22, 2008 and September 2, 
2009, of the results of two separate 
Concursos
 for the recruitment of tax prosecutors, 
including names and classification of the new recruited staff; and (c) certified copies of 
SEFAZ’s training records; and (ii) the adoption of electronic fiscal invoices, as evidenced 
in SEFAZ Resolutions No. 118 and 162 of January 23, 2008, and October 10, 2008, 
respectively. 
3.  The Borrower, through SEFAZ and SEPLAG, has taken a series of actions aimed at 
strengthening the Borrower’s budget procedures, financial management and procurement 
systems, through: (i) the reorganization of the Borrower’s budget and its financial annual 
programming procedures, as evidenced by Borrower’s Decree No. 41.682/09 of February 
9, 2009; (ii) the definition of budget execution and financial management procedures, as 
well as the creation of a position of internal control advisor to be appointed in each of the 
Borrower’s entities, as evidenced by Borrower’s Decree No. 41.880/09 of May 25, 2009; 
and (iii) the use of price registries and 
Pregão Eletrôni
co as preferred methods for the 
procurement of services, as evidenced by Borrower’s Decrees No. 41.135/08 and No. 
41.533/08 of January 21, 2008 and November 4, 2008 respectively. 
B.
 
Improving Quality and Efficiency of the Business Registration Process
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SEFAZ and SEDEIS, has taken the necessary steps to improve 
the Borrower’s business environment in order to achieve greater economic diversification 
and growth, through: (i) the implementation of streamlined business registration 
processes, as evidenced by SEFAZ Resolution No. 248 of November 9, 2009; and (ii) the 
creation of integrated service centers (
Rio Poupa Tempo
)
for the provision of services 
Page  8
6
related to company incorporation, licensing and permits and other related services in one 
location, as evidenced by Borrower’s Decree No. 41.832 of April 17, 2009. 
C. 
Increasing Quality and Efficiency of the Basic Education System
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SEEDUC, has taken a series of actions to increase primary and 
secondary school completion rates and to reduce age-grade distortion, through the 
implementation of a high quality accelerated learning program (
Projeto Autonomia
)
that 
will enable overage students in the last years of fundamental education to complete the 
curriculum in reduced time in selected Borrower’s schools, as evidenced by: (a) the 
agreement No. 38/2008 entered into between the Borrower, through SEEDUC and the 
Roberto Marinho
 Foundation for the implementation of said accelerated learning 
program, dated October 31, 2008, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on 
December 18, 2008 and (b) an official list of teachers trained on the accelerated learning 
program, as well as of the Borrower’s schools currently implementing 
Projeto 
Autonomia
.
2.  The Borrower, through SEEDUC, has taken the necessary steps to modernize the 
Borrower’s school information system and resource management, so as to increase 
accountability among teachers and students, as well as to promote efficiency in the use of 
resources, through the implementation of a new school management information system 
(
Conexão Educação
), as evidenced by the contracts ASJUR/SEEDUC No. 33/2008, No. 
41/2008 and No.56/2009, entered into between the Borrower and selected consultant 
firms, for the purposes of developing said new school management system in SEEDUC, 
implementing said system in the Borrower’s schools and leasing the necessary equipment 
and providing the necessary maintenance therefor, published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette respectively on December 5, 2008, December 22, 2008 and May 20, 2009. 
D. 
Increasing Access to and Efficiency of Health Services.
 
1. 
The Borrower, through SESDEC, has taken the necessary steps to expand the provision 
of quality coverage for urgent and emergency health care in the Borrower’s low income 
urban neighborhoods, through the establishment of additional 24-hours operating 
specialized health units (UPAs), as evidenced by SESDEC 
Portarias SG
 No. 07 of 
August 6, 2008 (
Botafogo
); No. 08 of August 6, 2008 (Nova Iguaçu); No. 09 of 
September 1, 2008 (
Marechal Hermes
); No. 10 of September 1, 2008 (
Sarapuí – Duque 
de Caixas II
); No. 12 of September 19, 2008 (
Barra Mansa
); No. 14 of October 14, 2008 
(
Penha
); No. 15 of October 14, 2008 (
Realengo
); and No. 17 of October 14, 2008 
(
Engenho Novo
), together with the proper registration of said UPAs in the Guarantor´s 
CNES and CNPJ. 
2. 
The Borrower, through SESDEC, has taken the necessary administrative measures for the 
creation of incentives for municipalities to deliver more efficient and higher quality 
health services through additional resources tied to performance, through the creation of a 
performance-based transfer system between the Borrower and its municipalities 
(
Programa de Apoio aos Hospitais do Interior
 –PAHI), based on improvements in 
mother-child health and hospital care, as evidenced by SESDEC Resolution No. 843 of 
September 25, 2009, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on September 29, 
2009. 
Page  9
7
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Tranche Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
 
Single Tranche 
 
483,787,500 
 
Front-end Fee 
 
1,212,500 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.03 of this Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
485,000,000 
 
C. Tranche 
Release 
Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Tranche 
unless the Bank is satisfied:
 
1. 
with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; 
 
2.  
that the Guarantor is maintaining a macroeconomic policy framework which is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program;  
 
3.  
that an appropriate expenditure program and fiscal arrangements are maintained 
between the Borrower and the Guarantor; 
 
If the Bank is not so satisfied, it may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if 
within ninety (90) days after the notice, the Borrower has not taken steps satisfactory to 
the Bank, with respect to paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 above, then the Bank may, by notice to 
the Borrower, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount 
is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Page  10
8
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  11
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies.  
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2016  
 
through October 15, 2038 
 
2,13% 
On April 15, 2039 
2.02% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
Page  12
10 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  13
11 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“CNES” means Cadastro Nacional de Entidades de Saúde, the Guarantor´s national 
registry of health entities.  
2. 
“CNPJ” means Cadastro Nacional de Pessoas Jurídicas, the Guarantor´s national registry 
of private and public entities. 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services
 
supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  14
12 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Governor” means the official heading the Borrower’s executive branch of government. 
 
6. “
Pregão Eletrônico
”
means the procurement method set forth in the Guarantor’s Law No. 
10520 of July 17, 2002. 
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable human development and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated September 28, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
8. “SEDEIS” 
means 
Secretaria
 
de Estado de Desenvolvimento Econômico, Energia, 
Indústria e Serviços
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of Development, Energy, Industry and 
Services. 
 
9. “SEEDUC” 
means 
Secretaria de Estado de Educação,
 the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Education. 
 
10. “SEFAZ” 
means 
Secretaria de Estado de Fazenda
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Finance. 
 
11. “SEPLAG” 
means 
Secretaria de Planejamento e Gestão
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Planning. 
 
12. “SESDEC” 
means 
Secretaria de Es
tado de Saúde e Defesa Civil
,
the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Health and Civil Defense. 
 
Page  15
13 
 
13. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
14. “UPAs” 
means 
Unidades de Pronto Atendimento,
 the Borrower’s urgent and emergency 
care units. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
 
Page  16
14 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.”  
 
(b)  
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.” 
 
