Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5093 
Operation Name 
BR 
–
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY, 
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND COMPETITVENESS 
DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General education sector (40%); Health (30%);General public 
administration sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P117244 
Borrower(s) 
STATE GOVERNMENT OF RIO DE JANEIRO 
Implementing Agency 
STATE SECRETARIAT OF FINANCE 
State Finance Secretariat 
Rua da Alfândega, 42 – 1º andar - Centro 
20070-000 - Rio de Janeiro, RJ  
Brazil 
Phone: 55 21 2334-4511 
Fax: 55 21 2334-4513 
gabgeral@fazenda.rj.gov.br 
Date PID Prepared 
September 24, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 19, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
January 19, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The State of Rio de Janeiro is Brazil’s smallest state in land area (excluding the federal district) but has 
the third highest population and the second highest GDP in the nation.  This means it makes up 12.6% of 
Brazil’s GDP and leads particularly in the area of petroleum, producing more than 80% of all the 
petroleum produced in Brazil and holding the largest reserves of any state in the nation.  Rapid growth in 
the petroleum industry has brought the State of Rio de Janeiro back from a decline which reached its nadir 
around 1990, when Rio produced less than 11% of the national GDP.  This rapid growth has also fed 
industries with heavy petroleum reliance such as the naval industry and the petrochemical sectors.  This 
economic growth has also reduced the importance of the capital city and its metropolitan region in the 
state economy.   
 
In comparison with the country, the State performs well on both economic and educational indicators for 
adults.  Rio de Janeiro ranks second among states for 
per capita
 household income, with the State average 
20.4% higher than the national one.  The proportion of poor people in its population is smaller than in the 
country (22% versus
 
29%) and the same is true with regard to the proportion of people in extreme poverty 
(6% in the state versus
 
11% in the country). Nearly one million new job positions have been created in the 
State in the last decade. The State’s adult population holds the highest level of school education in the 
country and the highest adult literacy rate (outside the federal district).  Rio is also characterized by better 
access to basic public infra-structures (electric power, water supply, sanitation, and garbage collection) 
than the national averages. 
 
However, the State continues to struggle with various social and economic challenges.  It is characterized 
by high income inequality rates (twelfth of all states in 2007), which contribute to its poverty rate 
declining less and more slowly than in the rest of the country over the last decade.  Most of the jobs 
Page  2
created in the last decade have been in the informal economy, leading the informal sector to comprise 
nearly 44% of the existing employment opportunities in the State.  Despite excellent adult outcomes in 
education, children currently in school perform far from the top in the nation.  On the main indicator of 
education performance for Brazil (IDEB), Rio fell from sixth place in 2005 to ninth place in 2007.  
Access to basic education has not become universal in the State, and it has high rates of repetition and 
drop-outs with high age-grade distortion.  Most secondary school youths study in evening classes and in 
schools that use the same physical space to offer both basic and high school curricula.  Public health 
issues, poor housing conditions, and public security remain critical challenges.  Child mortality rates are 
lower than the national average, but they are still high from a regional perspective.  Within the capital 
city, the population of 
favelas
 (urban slums) has increased at a rate three times higher than the growth rate 
of the city’s population.  The State is also characterized by the fourth-highest homicide rate in the 
country.  These rates are even higher in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region.  Violence and criminality 
are often identified in the literature as the main social issues and the key obstacles to economic and social 
development. 
The proposed operation is fully consistent with and closely linked to the objectives of the Brazil CPS, 
2008-2011. In particular, they policy measures supported by the loan are aligned with the CPS objectives 
of (i) strengthening macroeconomic fundamentals and public sector management; (ii) reducing poverty, 
vulnerability and social exclusion by increasing efficiency, quality of spending and accountability of the 
health and education sectors, especially at the sub-national level; and (iii) improving competitiveness and 
the investment climate. The current partnership strategy was developed in close consultation with the 
Federal authorities, who see Bank support to the states as central to their efforts to improve fiscal 
management and the provision of public services. 
 
The proposed operation responds in a timely fashion to the needs of the State Government of Rio de 
Janeiro and to requests by the National Treasury. It helps GORJ reinforce fiscal discipline, strengthen 
policies in the education and health sectors to produce better results and improve the competitiveness and 
growth of the state economy through a more dynamic business environment. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed operation is to assist the Government of Rio de Janeiro (GORJ) in 
strengthening its policies to improve fiscal management, competitiveness and social service delivery and 
helping cover the projected fiscal gap in the context of a temporary fall in revenues associated with the 
recent global financial crisis and economic slowdown.   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed loan will support policy actions in the following areas:  
 
·
Strengthening fiscal consolidation through reduced long-term fiscal risk, improved efficiency of 
tax administration and strengthened budget procedures, internal control and transparency.  
·
Improving quality and efficiency of the business registration process. 
·
Increasing quality and efficiency of the basic education system.  
·
Increasing access and efficiency of health services, especially in disadvantaged areas and for poor 
people 
 
A
single tranche stand-alone DPL was chosen as the preferred instrument to reinforce GORJ’s key 
reforms and to cover a fiscal gap  resulting from a projected temporary fall in revenues in 2010. A DPL 
series has not been pursued for the following reasons: (i) all resources the DPL would make available are 
needed to cover the 2010 projected financing gap; (ii) GORJ does not have space in its PAF for a larger 
Page  3
multi-year borrowing program; (iii) the political cycle ahead (with federal and state elections in 
November 2010) does not allow any state government to sign new loans after June 30, 2010 and (iv) it 
was preferred not to bind the next administration to specific policy triggers agreed with the current one. 
 
Nevertheless, this operation is strongly linked to the State's medium term development program, which 
gives confidence that the policies supported by the DPL will be sustained and will have a long-lasting 
impact. In addition, the 2014 World Cup (to be hosted in Brazil) and the 2016 Olympic Games (to be 
hosted in the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro) will bring additional financial, political and logistical 
resources to GORJ’s efforts to promote economic development and improve delivery of services and 
overall living conditions in the State of Rio de Janeiro, founded on those policies supported by this DPL.  
 
Institutional Arrangements: The preparation of this operation is being led by the State Secretariat of 
Finance (SEFAZ), which is also responsible for the business environment-related reforms. The Secretariat 
of Health and Civil Defense (SESDEC) is in charge of the reforms associated to the quality of urgency 
and emergency care, and to the efficiency of state health services. The Secretariat of Education 
(SEEDUC) is expected to conduct reforms to improve the quality and efficiency of basic education, 
mainly through the improvement of education services in state schools, and reduction of age-grade 
distortion. 
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
The specific actions supported by the DPL are not likely to have any significant effects on the 
environment, forests, or natural resources. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower  
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
485 
 Total 
5,000 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Michele 
Gragnolati 
    
Title: 
 Sector 
Leader, 
LCSHD 
    
Tel: 
 55-61- 
3329-8610 
    
Fax: 
 55-61- 
3329-1000 
    
Email:  
mgragnolati@worldbank.org
Location: 
The 
World 
Bank     
SCN Quadra 2 Lote A 
 
 
 
Brasilia, DF. 70712-900  
 
7. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  4
