                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001836



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-7827-BR)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$485 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                     STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL

    WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                        FOR A

FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY, HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND COMPETITIVENESS
                   DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                     June 16, 2011




Human Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2011)

                       Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)
                               R$1.00 = US$ 0.63
                              US$ 1.00 = R$1.58

                                   FISCAL YEAR


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANVISA    National Health Surveillance Agency         Agência Nacional de Vigilância Sanitária
BP        Basis Point                                 Ponto Base
CDI       Interbank Deposit Certificate               Certificado de Depósito Interbancário
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy                Estratégia de Parceria para o País
DPL       Development Policy Loan                     Empréstimo para Políticas de
                                                      Desenvolvimento
FY        Fiscal Year                                 Ano Fiscal
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                      Produto Interno Bruto
GoRJ      Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro   Governo do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and   Banco Internacional para Reconstrução e
          Development                                 Desenvolvimento
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results       Relatório de Conclusão de Implementação
          Report                                      e Resultados de Projeto
IDEB      Basic Education Development Index           Índice de Desenvolvimento da Educação
                                                      Básica
LRF       Fiscal Responsibility Law                   Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal
OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation       Organização para Cooperação e
          and Development                             Desenvolvimento Econômico
PAC       Program of Accelerated Growth               Programa de Aceleramento do Crescimento
PAF       Fiscal Adjustment Program                   Programa de Ajuste Fiscal
PAHI      Program to Support Municipal Hospitals      Programa de Apoio aos Hospitais do
                                                      Interior
PISA      Program for International Student           Programa de Avaliação Internacional de
          Assessment                                  Estudantes
PPA       Multi-Year Plan                             Plano Plurianual
PREM      Poverty Reduction and Economic              Departamento de Redução de Pobreza e
          Management Network                          Gerenciamento Econômico
PRODESF   Rio de Janeiro State Economic and Social    Programa de Desenvolvimento Econômico,
          Development and Fiscal Sustainability       Social e de Sustentabilidade Fiscal do
          Program                                     Estado do Rio de Janeiro
PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Assessment        Avaliação de Impactos Sociais e de
                                                      Pobreza
RJ        Rio de Janeiro                              Rio de Janeiro
SEEDUC    State Secretariat of Education              Secretaria de Estado de Educação
SEFAZ     State Secretariat of Finance                Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda
SELIC     Special System of Clearance and Custody     Sistema Especial de Liquidação e de Custódia
SEPLAG    State Secretariat of Planning               Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento
SESDEC    State Secretariat of Health and Civil       Secretaria de Estado de Saúde e Defesa Civil
          Defense
SIL       Specific Investment Loan                    Projeto de Investimento
SISNAC         Live Birth Information System         Sistema de Informações sobre Nascidos
                                                     Vivos
SISPRENATAL Monitoring System of the Humanization of Sistema de Acompanhamento do Programa
            Prenatal and Birthing Care               de Humanização no Pré-Natal e
                                                     Nascimento
STN         National Treasury Secretariat            Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
SUS         Universal Health System                  Sistema Único de Saúde
SWAp        Sector Wide Approach                     Abordagem Setorial Ampla
TAL         Technical Assistance Loan                Empréstimo para Assistência Técnica
UPA         Urgent and Emergency Care Unit           Unidade de Pronto Atendimento




                               Vice President: Pamela Cox
                             Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                              Sector Manager: Chingboon Lee
                            Task Team Leader: Michele Gragnolati
                            ICR Team Leader: Michele Gragnolati
                          ICR Primary Author: Debora Brakarz
 
                                  BRAZIL
 Fiscal Sustainability, Human Development and Competitiveness Development
                                 Policy Loan


                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 19
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 20
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 22
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 23
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 24
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38


MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Fiscal Sustainability,
                                                                           Human Development
Country:                Brazil                    Program Name:
                                                                           and Competitiveness
                                                                           DPL
Program ID:             P117244                   L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-78270
ICR Date:               06/21/2011                ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                           STATE
Lending Instrument:     DPL                       Borrower:                GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                           RIO DE JANEIRO
Original Total
                        USD 485.0M                Disbursed Amount:        USD 485.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 485.0M
Implementing Agencies:
Rio de Janeiro State Secretariat of Finance
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process            Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/14/2009      Effectiveness:             03/31/2010        04/29/2010
Appraisal:             11/04/2009      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/02/2010      Mid-term Review:
                                       Closing:                   12/31/2011        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                           Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                                Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     67                  67
Health                                                                11                  11
Primary education                                                     11                  11
Secondary education                                                   11                  11


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               13                  13
Education for all                                                     24                  24
Health system performance                                             13                  13
Regulation and competition policy                                     25                  25
Tax policy and administration                                         25                  25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Makhtar Diop                         Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:            Chingboon Lee                        Chingboon Lee
Program Team Leader:       Michele Gragnolati                   Michele Gragnolati
ICR Team Leader:           Michele Gragnolati
ICR Primary Author:        Debora Brakarz
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the operation is to assist the Government of Rio de Janeiro (GORJ) in
strengthening its policies to improve fiscal management, competitiveness and social
service delivery, and in covering the projected fiscal gap during 2010 resulting from a
temporary fall in revenues associated with the recent global financial crisis and economic
slowdown.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original
approving authority)
Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                   Net asset position of the pension fund not subject to executive discretion
Indicator 1 :      increases.
Value
(quantitative or   R$16,229 million         R$50,495 million                   R$54,332 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Value at completion exceeds target.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Value of tax collected increases.
Value
(quantitative or   R$22,920 million         R$26,438 million                   R$29,086 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Value at completion exceeds target.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Number of electronic invoices issued increases.
Value
                                            95% of all
(quantitative or   5,626,353                                                   81% of all invoices
                                            invoices
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                   The lower than expected outcome is due to national business associations
Comments
                   requesting a delay in the deadline for registering with the electronic invoice
(incl. %
                   system (originally set for December 2010 and delayed to April 2011) # see
achievement)
                   explanation in Section 3.2.
Indicator 4 :      Financial revenue from cash flow management increases.
Value              R$ 500 million           R$ 550 million                      R$ 542 million
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                 12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments           The difference between the target and actual value is not significant and is due
(incl. %           to three factors that are independent of sound management of cash flow # see
achievement)       explanation in Section 3.2.
Indicator 5 :      Net financial position (cash less current liabilities) increases.
Value
(quantitative or   R$ 1,140.6 million       R$ 1,233.6 million                 R$ 2,176.5 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Value at completion exceeds target.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Share of payments made in less than 30 days increases.
Value
(quantitative or   82%                      84%                                94.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Value at completion exceeds target.
achievement)
                   Proportion of services contracted using the Pregão Eletrônico procurement
Indicator 7 :      method increases.
Value
(quantitative or   90%                      95%                                96.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/30/2009               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Value at completion exceeds target.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Average number of days to register a firm is reduced.
Value
(quantitative or   63                       30                                 36
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                   The slightly slower than expected progress is due to Cadastro Fácil only
Comments
                   becoming fully operational in Dec instead of Apr 2009, as planned. The nr of
(incl. %
                   days continued declining and reached 31 by the end of Apr 2011#see
achievement)
                   explanation in Section 3.2
Indicator 9 :      Number of teachers trained for Projeto Autonomia increases.
Value
(quantitative or   0                        1,363                              2,030
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Value at completion exceeds target.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Number of students enrolled in Projeto Autonomia increases.
Value
(quantitative or   0                       43,000                             31,263
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments           See Section 3.2 for an explanation of why the target was not met. The total
(incl. %           number of students enrolled continued to increase after Dec. 31 2010 and by
achievement)       April 2011 it was estimated to be 42,743.
Indicator 11 :     Number of students receiving Conexão Educação smart cards increases.
Value
(quantitative or   0                       600,000                            771,291
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Value at completion exceeds target.
achievement)
                   Monthly reports on teacher and student absenteeism by school produced within
Indicator 12 :     7 days of the last day of the month to be delivered to Human Resources
                   Management Superintendence (by April 30, 2010).
                                                                              Capacity for
                                             Monthly reports
                                                                              monthly production
Value                                        produced and
                                                                              of reports exists but
(quantitative or   No reports produced. delivered within 7
                                                                              reports are
Qualitative)                                 days of the last
                                                                              produced only if
                                             day of the month.
                                                                              requested.
Date achieved      12/31/2008                12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
                   Indicator was partially achieved, as Conexão Educação has indeed allowed for
Comments
                   these reports to be produced bi-monthly, through the program’s electronic
(incl. %
                   management module. The reports are produced only if requested rather than
achievement)
                   routinely.
                   Monthly report on expenditures for student meals and transport produced
Indicator 13 :     within 14 days of the last day of the month (by June 30, 2010).
                                             Monthly reports                  Capacity for daily
Value                                        produced and                     meal reports exists
(quantitative or   No reports produced       delivered within                 but monthly reports
Qualitative)                                 14 days of the last              are produced only if
                                             day of the month.                requested.
Date achieved      12/31/2008                12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
                   Indic was partially achieved as Conexão Educação has allowed the meal
Comments
                   reports to be produced daily by any admin staff with access to the info system
(incl. %
                   and reports can be produced if needed. Implementation of transportation
achievement)
                   monitoring is still in progress
Indicator 14 :     Number of services at UPAs increases.
Value
(quantitative or   1.3 million             3.7 million                        6.25. million
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008             12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments           Value at completion exceeds target.
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Number of municipalities with signed PAHI performance agreements
Indicator 15 : increases.
Value
(quantitative or   0                         50                               64
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009                12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Value at completion exceeds target.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      This DPL did not include intermediate outcome indicators
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      03/16/2010           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00
  2      12/17/2010           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 483.79


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
   1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

   1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. In mid-2009, the state Government of Rio de Janeiro (GoRJ), in coordination with the
   Federal Government of Brazil, requested a single-tranche stand-alone Development
   Policy Loan (DPL) to help with projected 2010 financing needs resulting from reduced
   projected revenues caused by the global financial crisis – mainly due to lower oil
   royalties, state taxes and intergovernmental transfers, and increased expenditures on
   infrastructure associated with the national Program of Accelerated Growth (PAC).

2. The global financial crisis of 2008 hit Brazil hard and interrupted twenty-one consecutive
   quarters of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) expansion. It caused contagion in domestic
   financial markets, a fall in commodity prices, exchange rate depreciation, external and
   domestic credit curtailment, a liquidity squeeze for domestic firms, decline in exports,
   decrease in foreign direct investment, decrease in industrial production, and increase in
   unemployment, among others. However, during the last decade, the federal and state
   governments – including Rio de Janeiro – have undertaken reforms and improvements
   that have led to a robust macro-economic management framework. This allowed the
   federal government to act quickly to rein-in the effects of the crisis, with an aggressive
   expansionary policy that included the Central Bank adopting measures to inject liquidity
   into domestic markets and provide foreign exchange to corporations. In addition, the state
   of Rio de Janeiro also had the advantage of a relatively limited dependence on federal
   transfers, dominance of the service sector and oil extraction in its economy, and rapidly
   growing public revenues.

3. However, despite the nation’s quick economic recovery from the global economic crisis,
   damaging effects lingered. In the state of Rio de Janeiro in particular, revenue collection
   deteriorated and limited GoRJ’s ability to keep pace with planned investments and other
   expenditures, especially relating to its 2007-2010 Strategic Plan. Thus, GoRJ and the
   federal government requested financial help from the World Bank in the form of a DPL.
   The country’s and the state of Rio de Janeiro’s macro-economic frameworks were
   deemed solid and appropriate for this DPL.

4. The Loan was designed to partially compensate for the expected fall in revenues caused
   by the 2008 crisis and to help sustain the implementation of GoRJ’s 2007-2010 Strategic
   Plan, which was in its initial stages of implementation. The Plan affirms that fiscal
   balance is the fundamental condition that will lead to achievement of its main goals of
   providing efficient and effective public services in the areas of health, education, and
   public safety. These development priorities are also reflected in the national 2008-2011
   Multi-Year Plan (PPA).

5. Special attention was given to lagging sectors, such as education and health. In education,
   the state’s outcomes were by far the lowest in the Southeast Region, were well below the
   national average for secondary school completion rates (44.5% compared to 50.9%), and



                                                1
   only barely passed the national average in primary school completion rates (57.8%
   compared to 53.7%). From 2005 to 2007, the state fell from ninth to fourteenth place in
   the Basic Education Development Index (IDEB) for fourth grade students and from
   seventeenth to twentieth place for eighth grade students. In health, the state’s outcomes
   were also the lowest in the Southeast Region, especially in relation to the coverage of
   basic health programs and the delivery of urgent and emergency care services. In 2007,
   only 27.7% of Rio de Janeiro’s population was covered by basic health care programs,
   while the average for the Region was 40.5% and 58.1% for the country.

6. This DPL was also one of a number of sub-national DPLs and Sector-Wide Approaches
   (SWAps) designed to reinforce fiscal discipline, public sector management, and service
   delivery as an integral part of the World Bank’s 2008-2011 Brazil Country Partnership
   Strategy (CPS). The DPL addressed both the Growth and the Equity pillars of the CPS,
   and supported policy measures consistent with the CPS objectives of: (a) strengthening
   macroeconomic fundamentals, public sector management, and fiscal consolidation; (b)
   reducing poverty, vulnerability and social exclusion by increasing efficiency, quality of
   spending and accountability of the health and education sectors, especially at the sub-
   national level; and (c) improving competitiveness and the investment climate for
   achieving inclusive economic growth in Brazil.

7. This Loan was originally conceived as a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) with a SWAp
   framework. During concept stage, at the request of GoRJ and the Federal Government of
   Brazil, it was changed to a DPL covering the same sectors that would have been covered
   by the SIL/SWAp. The change was requested due to the urgent need for funds to
   compensate for an unexpected loss in projected revenues, especially during the first half
   of 2010. Thus, the governments decided that a single-tranche disbursement would be
   more efficient and effective than a multi-tranche operation.

   1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8. Program Development Objective. The objective of the operation is to assist the
   Government of Rio de Janeiro in strengthening its policies to improve fiscal management,
   competitiveness and social service delivery, and in covering the projected fiscal gap
   during 2010 resulting from a temporary fall in revenues associated with the recent global
   financial crisis and economic slowdown.

9. Key Indicators. (a) Net asset position of the pension fund not subject to executive
   discretion increases; (b) Value of tax collected increases; (c) Number of electronic
   invoices issued increases; (d) Financial revenue from cash flow management increases;
   (e) Net financial position (cash less current liabilities) increases; (f) Share of payments
   made in less than 30 days increases; (g) Proportion of services contracted using the
   Pregão Eletrônico procurement method increases; (h) Average number of days to register
   a firm is reduced; (i) Number of teachers trained for Projeto Autonomia increases; (j)
   Number of students enrolled in Projeto Autonomia increases; (k) Number of students
   receiving Conexão Educação smart cards increases; (l) Monthly reports on teacher and
   student absenteeism by school produced within seven days of the last day of the month to
   be delivered to Human Resources Management Superintendence (by April 30, 2010); (m)


                                                2
   Monthly report on expenditures for student meals and transport produced within fourteen
   days of the last day of the month (by June 30, 2010); (n) Number of services at UPAs
   increases; (o) Number of municipalities with signed PAHI performance agreements
   increases.

   1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
   Reasons/Justification

10. Not Applicable

   1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

11. GoRJ’s 2007-2010 Strategic Plan aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
    public services by focusing on a set of nine priority areas: (a) development of human
    capital; (b) expansion of preventative actions and modernization of the health system; (c)
    economic development, attraction of investment, and technological innovation; (d)
    renovation and strengthening of public administration; (e) social development, productive
    inclusion and citizenship; (f) restoration of public safety; (g) environmental
    sustainability; (h) expansion and improvement of urban infrastructure and transportation
    logistics; and (i) promotion of culture and integration through sports.

12. The policies supported by this DPL were part of GoRJ’s medium-term reform program,
    corresponding to the first four of the nine priority areas. Specifically, the Loan supported
    measures that: (a) strengthened fiscal consolidation through reduced long-term fiscal risk,
    improved efficiency of tax administration, and strengthened budget procedures and
    financial management; (b) improved the quality and efficiency of the business
    registration process; (c) increased the quality and efficiency of the basic education
    system; and (d) increased access to and the efficiency of health services, especially for
    urgent and emergency health care in disadvantaged areas and for low-income populations.

13. Fiscal Consolidation. In order to achieve its central mission of maintaining positive fiscal
    balances, GoRJ’s Secretariat of Finance (SEFAZ) has developed and put in place an
    appropriate and sound structural and institutional framework, and has strengthened fiscal
    management procedures since early 2007. The strategy has been to increase transparency,
    predictability and credibility, and the fiscal policy area of this DPL supported specific
    reforms in all three of these dimensions: (a) reducing long term fiscal risk, by transferring
    oil revenues to the pension fund (RioPrevidência), preventing them from being used for
    other purposes and protecting them from executive discretion; (b) improving the
    efficiency of tax administration (and therefore increasing tax revenue and compliance),
    by increasing the number of qualified staff through new hires with selective public exams
    (concursos) and retrained existing staff, and by increasing the adoption of electronic
    fiscal invoices (nota fiscal eletrônica); and (c) strengthening the institutional framework
    for budget procedures and financial management, through reorganization of the budget
    programming process, definition of precise procedures, introducing a public timetable for
    invoice payments, and improving fiscal transparency in state operations.




                                                 3
14. Business Environment. Another objective of GoRJ’s strategic plan is to achieve economic
    diversification and growth. The business environment in the state is hampered by
    excessive bureaucracy and high costs of registering businesses. Thus, the strategy GoRJ
    adopted to improve the business environment includes initiatives to ease bureaucratic
    processes relating to registering and operating businesses, decentralize the provision of
    services to businesses, and integrate organizations that deal with businesses at different
    levels of government (national, state and municipal). This DPL supported two of these
    initiatives that have a direct impact on the quality and efficiency of the business
    registration process: (a) Cadastro Fácil (Facilitation of Firm Registration), which will
    provide a more uniform procedure and decrease the need for businesses to take
    documents or questions to SEFAZ, thereby expediting the registration process; and (b)
    Rio Poupa Tempo (Integrated Business Service Centers), which will provide services
    such as company registration, licensing and permits in one location, and significantly
    improve the quality of services that are provided within these units.

15. Quality and Efficiency of Basic Education. Brazil aims at reaching OECD-levels of PISA
    learning outcomes by 2021. In order to do so, every state needs to undergo reforms of its
    basic education system, including Rio de Janeiro. GoRJ faces four major challenges to
    improve the quality and efficiency of basic education: low primary and secondary school
    completion rates, lack of management information at the school and administrative levels
    and inefficient resource use, inadequate physical conditions in schools, and poor student
    learning outcomes. This DPL supported two actions the government has undertaken in
    order to address the first two of its major challenges: (a) large-scale implementation of a
    high quality “accelerated learning” program (Projeto Autonomia) designed by Fundação
    Roberto Marinho that enables overage students to complete the curriculum in reduced
    time, so as to increase primary and secondary school completion rates and reducing age-
    grade distortion; and (b) installation of wireless internet, provision of laptops for teachers,
    promotion of access to digital teaching and learning resources, and introduction of “smart
    cards” to monitor student and teacher attendance, and access to school lunches and
    transport (Conexão Educação), so as to modernize system information and resource
    management, and increase accountability and efficiency of resource use.

16. Coverage and Efficiency of Health Services. The health system in the state of Rio de
    Janeiro faces two major challenges: the lack of coverage and quality of health services in
    responding to urgent and/or emergency needs of populations living in the poorest
    neighborhoods, and weak management and inefficient use of resources. In order to
    address these issues, GoRJ’s strategy includes implementing 24-hour Rapid Service Units
    (Unidades de Pronto Atendimento - UPAs) in low-income areas, increasing coordination
    within the urgent and emergency care network, implementing a system of performance-
    based state financial transfers to municipalities (Program to Support Municipal Hospitals
    - PAHI), implementing medical protocols starting with the more costly and prevalent
    diseases, and establishing State Health Foundations to introduce flexibility and strengthen
    performance and accountability in the system. This DPL supported the first three of these
    GoRJ’s initiatives to increase access and efficiency of health services by: (a) expanding
    the new UPA system of urgent and emergency care in disadvantaged areas and for low-
    income populations in order to provide ambulatory care (including performing low- and



                                                  4
   medium-complexity surgeries, and treating and stabilizing some severe cases before
   hospital transfer) and to provide and receive referrals and counter-referrals for all health
   facilities and programs (which fills a significant gap in the state system of health
   networks and increases coordination within the urgent and emergency care network); and
   (b) implementing the PAHI program, a performance-based transfer system from the state
   to municipalities of additional resources tied to improvements in maternal and child
   health and hospital care (in order to increase efficiency of health spending and
   accountability of health service provision by creating incentives for health units and
   municipalities to deliver more efficient and higher quality services).

   1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

17. Not Applicable

   1.6 Other significant changes

18. Not Applicable

   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

   2.1 Program Performance

19. This was a single-tranche operation which disbursed upon effectiveness. Negotiations
    between the World Bank and GoRJ ran smoothly, and the Loan approval process
    transpired swiftly with no significant delays – approval was on February 2, 2010, and
    effectiveness was on April 29, 2010, originally planned for March 31, 2010. The Loan
    closed as scheduled on December 31, 2010.

20. All policy actions required by the Loan Agreement were met by GoRJ prior to
    negotiations. Since GoRJ’s reform program was initiated in 2007 and the Loan became
    effective in 2010, the DPL supported an already mature and proven set of initiatives.

                                   Single Tranche Development Policy Loan
        Amount                Expected Release Date            Actual Release Date           Release
       USD 485.0M                  15-Apr-2010                    31-Aug-2010             USD 485.0M
                                              Condition                                           Status
    Social Security System for state public servants capitalized with oil-based revenues and
                                                                                                   Met
    those transfers protected from risk of executive discretion (Decree No. 42.011/2009)
    Tax collection enhancement measures adopted, including: (a) Recruitment of qualified staff
    and upgraded training for existing staff of the State Revenue Sub-Secretariat (SEFAZ
                                                                                                   Met
    official hiring and training records); (b) Adoption of electronic invoices to increase tax
    compliance and oversight (SEFAZ Resolutions No. 118/2008 and 162/2008)
    Budget processes reorganized to improve financial management (Decrees No. 41.682/2009
                                                                                                   Met
    and 41.880/2009) and procurement processes (Decrees No. 41.135/2008 and 41.533/2008)
    Streamlined business registration process Cadastro Fácil implemented (SEFAZ Resolution
                                                                                                   Met
    No. 248/2009)
    Integrated business service centers Rio Poupa Tempo units implemented (Decree No.
                                                                                                   Met
    41.832/2009)
    New accelerated learning program developed to reduce age-grade distortion in basic             Met



                                                      5
     education designed by Fundação Roberto Marinho (Decree No. 38/2008)
     New school management information program Conexão Educação developed to increase
     accountability among teachers and students and efficiency of resource use (Decrees No.       Met
     33/2008, 41/2008, 56/2009)
     24-hour operating Urgent and Emergency Care Units (UPAs) are used to deliver urgent and
     emergency services (SESDEC Directives creating UPAs) and proper registration of UPAs
                                                                                                  Met
     in National Registry of Health Entities (CNES) and National Registry of Private and Public
     Entities (CNPJ)
     System of performance-based transfers established between the state and municipalities
     based on improvements in mother-child health and hospital care (SESDEC Resolution No.        Met
     843/2009)

   2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

21. Both internal and external factors contributed to the program’s successful
    implementation. One vital factor was GoRJ’s continued commitment to its reform
    program throughout the implementation of the Loan, as evidenced by its continued
    efforts to preserve and deepen its policy reform program even in the face of financial
    emergency and political transition. With regards to the latter, the mid-cycle federal and
    state elections in November of 2010 did not delay the implementation of the program as
    the governor of Rio de Janeiro was reelected with 66% of the votes in the first round,
    which helped strengthen GoRJ’s commitment to the reform program.

22. The sound background analysis by both the World Bank and GoRJ teams also
    contributed to the appropriateness of the design of the operation. The background
    analysis was built on a number of formal and informal World Bank studies and reports,
    including a well-received Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA); the “Doing
    Business 2010: Reforming Through Difficult Times” report and the “Doing Business
    2010: Brazil” sub-report; the 2008 report “Hospital Performance in Brazil: The Search
    For Excellence;” and detailed background documents prepared by the task team on Rio
    de Janeiro’s fiscal and debt sustainability, and education policy strengths and needs.

23. The in-country partner analytical inputs to the design of the operation included the GoRJ
    2007-2010 Strategic Plan prepared after it took office in January 2007; the state’s Fiscal
    Adjustment Program (PAF) with the federal government for 2007 and 2008; a series of
    technical notes prepared by SEFAZ and SESDEC; and a 2007 report on the National
    Policy for Urgent Care by the federal Ministry of Health. Academic inputs included
    studies by experts on the social and economic development challenges in the state; on the
    obstacles for the state’s educational system in general and among the urban poor in
    particular; and on health system management in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area and
    on the Manchester Triage System for Emergency Care.

   2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24. M&E Design. Performance indicators and end targets were defined jointly by GoRJ and
    the World Bank team, and represented adequate and appropriate measures of the impact
    of all supported prior actions in the selected policy areas within the one-year time frame
    of the loan. Moreover, changes in the indicators can be attributed to the implementation


                                                       6
   of the supported policy actions. No new method of data collection and monitoring was
   designed specifically for this operation, due to the short-term nature and quick
   disbursement of the Loan. Rather, data was collected using monitoring systems already in
   place within SEFAZ, SEEDUC and SESDEC which have long been institutionally sound
   and have continually produced good quality, reliable data. Additionally, at the time of
   program launch the monitoring systems of the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAG)
   were also to be used, but as the systems of the other three secretariats proved
   comprehensive, it was soon determined that there was no need to use the SEPLAG’s
   supplementary monitoring.

25. M&E Implementation. Since already-existing monitoring tools were used, baseline data
    was readily available. This also allowed for indicator data to be collected accurately and
    in a timely fashion.

26. M&E Utilization. SEFAZ, SEEDUC and SESDEC successfully coordinated their
    monitoring efforts, generating clean and organized data that were used to inform
    decision-making and resource allocation. In particular, the indicators helped assess
    whether the policies supported by the World Bank would have the expected impact (for
    example, the slower than expected progress in a few indicators of the education policy
    area helped identify the need to strengthen capacity in SEEDUC). In addition, the
    monitoring and evaluation arrangements used under this DPL are sustainable as they are
    already part of the institutional structure, which has proven to be sound.

   2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)

27. This is the first of three stand-alone sub-national DPLs designed to reinforce fiscal
    discipline, public sector management, and service delivery in Rio de Janeiro as an
    integral part of the World Bank’s 2008-2011 Brazil CPS. The second is the RJ
    Metropolitan Urban and Housing Development DPL, which was approved on March 15,
    2011, and is scheduled to close December 31, 2012. The objective of this DPL is to
    support GoRJ in strengthening its policies regarding planning and managing territorial
    growth in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area by promoting the provision of affordable
    housing and creating integrated social development programs targeted to the poor. The
    operation is divided into three policy areas that reflect government priorities:
    strengthening planning and management of livable and sustainable urban growth in the
    metropolitan region; promoting the provision of affordable housing with reasonable
    access and quality; and providing targeted and integrated social assistance programs to
    the urban poor.

28. The third related operation is the RJ State Fiscal Consolidation for Efficiency and Human
    Development DPL, which held its first pre-identification mission in October 2010.
    During the mission, it was decided that this DPL will continue to focus on and expand
    some of the policies previously covered by this DPL (in the areas of fiscal consolidation,
    education and health) and additionally focus on public sector management reforms – in
    particular the implementation of a policies to strengthen the links between planning and
    budgetary processes to ensure that the adopted policies are consistent both with the
    priorities of GoRJ and with resources likely to be available in the medium term.


                                                7
29. Other operations that are also contributing to the CPS aims of reinforcing fiscal discipline,
    public sector management and service delivery in Rio de Janeiro, and which are closely
    coordinated with this DPL, include the RJ State Renovating and Strengthening Public
    Management Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), and the RJ Municipality Public Sector
    Efficiency, Human Development and Competitiveness DPL – the coordination with the
    latter is of particular note as it will contribute to a better alignment of the state and
    municipal governments’ policies (and thus to more efficient service delivery) in the areas
    of health, education and business environment – a first in the World Bank’s history of
    policy and investment operations in Brazil.

   3. Assessment of Outcomes

   3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

30. The design of this DPL was relevant because: (a) all of the resources the DPL would
    make available were needed to cover GoRJ’s 2010 projected financing gap; (b) there was
    an urgent need for the funds to compensate for the unexpected loss in revenue; (c) GoRJ
    did not have space in its Fiscal Adjustment Program (PAF) for a larger multi-year
    borrowing program; (d) the political cycle that the DPL timing would cover included
    federal and state elections in November of 2010, and state governments were not allowed
    to sign new loans after June of 2010; and (e) in view of the then-impending state
    elections, it was preferred not to bind the new administration to specific policy triggers
    agreed with the previous one.

31. The policy areas the DPL supported helped to sustain the implementation of GoRJ’s
    2007-2010 Strategic Plan, which in turn reflects similar developmental priorities to the
    national 2008-2011 Multi-Year Plan (PPA). This DPL also supported policy measures
    that were fully consistent with and closely linked to the World Bank’s 2008-2011 Brazil
    CPS objectives of: (a) strengthening macroeconomic fundamentals, public sector
    management, and fiscal consolidation; (b) reducing poverty, vulnerability and social
    exclusion by increasing efficiency, quality of spending and accountability of the health
    and education sectors, especially at the sub-national level; and (c) improving
    competitiveness and the investment climate for achieving inclusive economic growth in
    Brazil.

32. The loan amount (US$485 million) was determined by the National Treasury Secretariat
    (STN) as the maximum amount GoRJ could borrow in 2010 within the parameters of the
    national Fiscal Responsibility Law (LRF), which was enacted in Brazil in May 2000 to
    strengthen fiscal institutions and establishes the framework for fiscal planning, execution
    and transparency at the federal, state and municipal levels. Therefore, this amount
    covered all the available fiscal space in the state’s 2010 Fiscal Adjustment Program
    (PAF).




                                                 8
   3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

33. Achievement of the PDO is rated satisfactory as most of the results indicators (nine out of
    fifteen) were not only achieved, but also exceeded their end target values. The few
    indicators (six) that fell short of their expected targets nonetheless improved significantly
    and are on track to continue to improve and very likely to be achieved in the near-term,
    indicating that the impact of the reform program is robust. In addition, the progress
    towards achievement of the PDO and the overall implementation progress of the
    programs supported by the DPL were both continuously rated satisfactory during all
    supervision missions.

34. Most importantly, though, the overall purpose of the DPL was achieved in that it ensured
    that GoRJ could sustain its reform and investment programs, and guaranteed that the
    supported policy areas did not suffer from the temporary economic slowdown of 2008
    and 2009.

35. Policy Area 1: Strengthened Fiscal Consolidation Through Reduced Long-Term Fiscal
    Risk, Improved Efficiency of Tax Administration, and Strengthened Budget Procedures
    and Financial Management. The outcome of this area is rated satisfactory rather than
    highly satisfactory because two (out of seven) indicators had lower than expected results,
    even though one of these was below target by an insignificant amount. This was the
    increase in financial revenue from cash flow management (indicator 4), which was one of
    two indicators chosen to measure the improved financial management and strengthened
    institutional framework for budget procedures. The target for this indicator was R$550
    million at the end of 2010, yet the outcome was a slightly lower R$542 million (a minor
    difference which represents only 1.45% below target). The difference between the target
    and actual value is not significant and is due to three factors that are independent of
    sound management of cash flow: (a) the crisis in 2009 resulted in a decreased final
    balance; (b) the monetary policy response to the economic crisis included decreasing the
    Special System of Clearance and Custody (SELIC) rate by 500 BPs, thus decreasing the
    remuneration that GoRJ received from private banks (which is indexed as a percent of
    Interbank Deposit Certificate – CDI, which, in turn, depends on the SELIC); and (c)
    GoRJ changed the payment date for its payroll, bringing it from the 8th to the 2nd of the
    month, causing it to lose about five to six days of remuneration from its financial
    applications.

36. An increase in the net financial position (cash less current liabilities) was the second
    indicator used for measuring improved financial management and budget procedures
    (indicator 5). This had an outcome of fully 76.4% above the target value, due to the
    positive effects of fiscal adjustments made in 2009 (the outcome value was R$2,176.5
    million, while the target was R$1,233.6 million by end of 2010). At the end of 2009, this
    indicator was 47% below its expected mid-term value, with a target of R$1,191.9 million
    but an actual value of R$632.6 million. This was due to three factors: (a) external factors
    such as frustration revenue; (b) delays implementing accounting adjustments deriving
    from the adoption of Constitutional Amendment No. 62/2009 (allowing judicial
    payments to be moved from short- to long-term liabilities); and (c) the settlement of the
    Liquidity Public Debt Fund (which represented the cancellation of liability related to


                                                 9
   judicial payments by offsetting amounts owed and paid). Since there was no time to make
   accounting adjustments in 2009, the positive effects of these adjustments could not be
   reflected in 2009 accounts. However, the positive effects were reflected in 2010 accounts,
   showing the indicator was on track and well above the expected value.

37. This policy area also aimed at increasing the net asset position of the RioPrevidência
    pension fund and improved fiscal sustainability, measured by the increase in the amount
    of net assets of the pension fund that were not subject to executive discretion (indicator 1).
    The target for this indicator was R$50,495 million at the end of 2010, and the outcome
    was R$54,332 million, which represents 7.6% above target value. In addition, the oil-
    based revenue transfers were not subject to executive discretion, as intended. The
    indicator also surpassed its 2009 target by 11%, with the target set at R$48,459 million
    and the actual value amounting to R$53,777 million. This increase in funds strengthened
    RioPrevidência’s fiscal sustainability and allowed it to pay in full all pension obligations
    and, thus, protect the share of GoRJ’s budget needed for other expenses.

38. Another aim of this policy area was to increase tax revenue, compliance and oversight,
    which was measured by two indicators, both of which exceeded their end targets. The
    first indicator was the increase in the value of tax collected (indicator 2), which revealed
    results 10% above the expected target of R$26,438 million, with outcome revenues of
    R$29,086 million in collected taxes by the end of 2010, due to the modernization of tax
    inspection procedures in businesses, to SEFAZ’s new approach towards appreciation of
    its staff and in particular the tax inspectors, to the hiring of new and well-qualified
    inspectors and training of the existing ones, and to a vigorous post-crisis pick up in the
    state and national economies. The revenues were also 2% above target in 2009, with a
    goal of R$ 24,413 million and an outcome of R$ 24,884 million. The second indicator
    measured the increase in the number of electronic invoices issued (indicator 3), and was
    the other indicator in this area that fell short of achieving its target. The target was for
    95% of all invoices to be issued electronically by the end of 2010, yet the actual value
    was of 81% (15% below target). This was due to a request by the national business
    associations to delay the deadline for registering with the electronic invoice system
    (originally set for December 2010 and delayed to April 2011), which in turn caused not
    all businesses to have to be registered by the loan completion date. This was a federal
    policy change external to the control of GoRJ and thus does not indicate either a limited
    appropriateness of the original policy or a problem in its implementation. However, even
    with such unexpected and exogenous change, the actual number of electronic invoices
    issued increased 46% from 2009 to 2010 (from 56 million to 82 million). In addition, by
    April 2011 (the new deadline for businesses to register with the system) the total number
    of electronic invoices issued was already 45.7 million, representing an average of 11.4
    million per month, while in 2010 the average was of 6.8 million invoices per month (a
    68% increase). The final 2011 total is estimated to surpass 130 million invoices issued.

39. The final two indicators, which also achieved their targets, were used to measure the
    increased predictability and transparency of expenditures. The first was the increase in
    the share of payments made in less than 30 days (indicator 6), which surpassed the
    expected outcome by 12%, with the target being 84% and the actual end value being



                                                 10
   94.2% by the end of 2010. The target was surpassed due to sustained improvement in
   SEFAZ Treasury processes, which resulted in the Treasury being awarded the
   International Organization for Standardization’s (ISO) 9001 certificate in March 2011,
   which indicates it meets standards related to quality management systems. The other
   indicator was the increase in the proportion of services contracted using the Pregão
   Eletrônico procurement method (indicator 7), which increased to 96.2% at operation
   completion, exceeding its target of at least 95%. This was due to the successful
   implementation of the program’s electronic Integrated Procurement Management System
   (Sistema Integrado de Gestão de Aquisições – SIGA), which includes a web-based
   procurement portal and greatly enhanced the state’s procurement administration and
   organization processes.

40. The measures supported by the DPL in the fiscal consolidation policy area contributed to
    Standard and Poor’s giving the state, in March 2010, a global Issuer Credit rating of
    BBB- with stable outlook (foreign and local long term). This was the first time a sub-
    national government in Brazil was considered worthy of investment grade.

41. Policy Area 2: Improved Quality and Efficiency of the Business Registration Process.
    The outcome of this area is rated satisfactory rather than highly satisfactory because there
    were delays in the implementation of the Cadastro Fácil program, causing the indicator
    to be slightly below target. This indicator – the reduction in the average number of days
    to register a firm (indicator 8) – measures the increase in efficiency of the business
    registration process, with an end target of 30 days but an outcome of 36 days by the end
    of 2010. Cadastro Fácil became operational eight months behind schedule, due to delays
    in establishing a system that would link the various public sector organs responsible for
    implementing the program. However, once the program got underway the number of days
    to register a firm declined at a rapid pace: from 57 in 2009 to 36 in 2010 (a 37% drop in a
    single year) and to 31 by the end of April 2011, basically reaching the end target value. In
    addition, SEFAZ reported that the Rio Poupa Tempo units were already having a larger
    impact than expected by the end of 2010 (their utilization rate had already increased 28%
    compared to the 25% target value).

42. Policy Area 3: Increased Quality and Efficiency of the Basic Education System. The
    outcome of this area is rated satisfactory rather than highly satisfactory because of
    implementation problems that caused the outcome of one (out of five) of the indicators to
    be below the expected target values and because two further indicators were only
    partially achieved. The indicator with the outcome below expected target value was the
    increase in the number of students enrolled in Projeto Autonomia (indicator 10), which –
    along with a second indicator of an increase in the number of teachers trained for the
    project – addressed primary and secondary school completion rates and age-grade
    distortion. This indicator was 27% below target, with an outcome of 31,263 students
    enrolled at the end of 2010 against a target of 43,000. This was due mainly to a shortage
    of teachers within the state education network in 2009 (due both to a general shortage and
    to a higher number than expected transferring to the federal and municipal education
    systems), which led to a lack of available teachers for Projeto Autonomia (as they must
    be removed from regular courses) and limited funds to pay regular teachers for overtime



                                                11
   services. This in turn led to a necessary reduction in the number of classes formed (from
   1,000 to 550), and thus to a reduction in the number of students joining the classes.
   Moreover, SEEDUC experienced problems such as delays in the delivery of course
   material and lower than expected demand for the project (due to difficulties in the
   acceptance of the new learning culture). Nevertheless, the total number of students
   enrolled continued to increase and by April 2011 it was estimated to be 42,743 (only
   0.6% below target).

43. The other indicator related to Projeto Autonomia – the increase in the number of teachers
    trained for Projeto Autonomia (indicator 9) – was fully achieved (49% greater than
    expected), with 2,030 teachers being trained by the end of 2010 against a target of 1,363.
    More specifically, this corresponds to 865 teachers in 2009 (59% above the target of 542)
    and 1,165 in 2010 (42% above the target of 821). This indicator remained above target
    throughout implementation due to a greater effort made by SEEDUC to consolidate the
    program, greater publicizing of the program, and teams of multi-disciplinary experts
    made available to support teachers and school directors through the training process.

44. Three further indicators, measuring student and teacher attendance and access to school
    lunches and transport, were used to determine the increase in accountability and
    efficiency of resource use through modernized information and resource management
    systems. The first was the increase in the number of students receiving Conexão
    Educação smart cards (indicator 11), the outcome of which exceeded its end target value
    by 28.5% (the result being 771,291, while the expected number was 600,000). More
    specifically, the indicator exceeded both its 2009 target of 293,000 with an outcome of
    451,633 (greater by 54%) cards being received, and its 2010 target of 307,000 with an
    outcome of 319,658 cards (greater by 4%). The success of this initiative was due to a
    greater and more coordinated planning of the student registration process, and to the
    computerization of the enrollment process.

45. The final two indicators in the education policy area were only partially achieved. The
    first is the monthly reports on teacher and student absenteeism by school produced within
    seven days of the last day of the month to be delivered to Human Resources Management
    Superintendence, by April 30, 2010 (indicator 12). This has only been partially achieved
    because the Conexão Educação program has allowed for these reports to be produced
    bimonthly, but the reports are generated only if requested rather than routinely. By
    December 2010, the program was only fully implemented in one-third of the Rio state
    schools, due to delays in installing equipment belonging to a state program in municipal
    schools, and to basic problems relating to lack of adequate infrastructure. However, the
    program’s management module was implemented in all schools, thus SEEDUC was and
    is indeed able to monitor attendance, academic and biographical data on all students and
    teachers. In particular, although the original tool originally envisaged to monitor
    absenteeism is not yet fully operational in all state schools, absenteeism can be measured
    in all schools by cross-checking the information of two of Conexão Educação’s modules
    – the Quadro de Horários (which identifies the distribution of teachers within the schools
    according to their course load) and the Docente On-Line (which reports bimonthly the
    number of classes taught by teachers and student attendance and grades). Student



                                               12
   absenteeism can be monitored bimonthly through the Docente On-Line module and daily
   through the Cadernos de Frequença (which are manually marked by the teachers in the
   classroom).

46. The last indicator is the monthly report on expenditures for student meals and transport
    produced within fourteen days of the last day of the month, by June 30, 2010 (indicator
    13). This indicator is considered to be only partially achieved because Conexão
    Educação has allowed for all meal reports to be produced at any moment by
    administrative staff with access to the information system, so monthly reports are
    produced only if requested rather than routinely, and because of delays with the
    implementation of the transportation monitoring system. Lunch monitoring has been
    implemented in all state schools, but transportation can only be monitored in 20 of 96
    municipalities due to the fact that not all the municipalities have yet the capacity to
    implement electronic ticketing in their own public transportation systems. These delays
    are due to the need for agreements and negotiations with the diverse bus unions for the
    use of the Conexão Educação Smart Cards, difficulties in determining each student’s
    transportation and route usage, delays in substituting the current public transport card
    (RioCard) for the Smart Card, and delays in the integration with the subway, train and
    ferry systems.

47. Policy Area 4: Increased Access to and Efficiency of Health Services, Especially for
    Urgent and Emergency Health Care in Disadvantaged Areas and for Low-Income
    Populations. The outcome of this area is rated highly satisfactory because both
    performance indicators exceeded their projected end targets. The number of services
    provided by the UPAs (indicator 14) in 2009 and 2010 were 58% and 67.6% higher than
    their target values, respectively (representing an outcome of 3.8 and target of 2.4 million
    in 2009, and outcome of 6.2 and end target of 3.7 million in 2010), indicating that the
    system was successful in increasing access urgent and emergency care. The data also
    shows that only 0.6% of the patients were removed from the UPAs to hospital emergency
    rooms, indicating that the centers were also very effective in the treatment of the patients
    that sought care in these health units.

48. To measure the increase in efficiency of spending and accountability of health service
    provision, the number of municipalities signing PAHI performance agreements was used
    (indicator 15). This indicator exceeded its target by 28%, achieving an outcome of 64
    against a target of 50. Especially of note is the fact that participation by the municipalities
    in the PAHI is voluntary and considering there are 69 municipalities in the state that are
    eligible to participate, this means that only five municipalities did not wish to participate
    in this program of performance-based incentives for improving the quality of maternal
    and child hospital care.

   3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
    Rating: Satisfactory

49. Most of the results indicators (nine out of fifteen) were not only achieved, but also
    exceeded their end target values. A few indicators (six) fell short of their expected targets
    but nonetheless still showed significant improvement over their baseline values and


                                                  13
   continue to improve. In particular, the outcome of indicator 4 was not statistically
   different from its target; indicators 3, 8 and 10 achieved or nearly achieved their target
   levels shortly after Loan completion; and indicators 12 and 13 were partially achieved
   with significant capacity being generated but actual reports produced only if requested
   rather than routinely. This also indicates that the impact of GoRJ’s reform program is
   robust and, thus, that the Loan was efficient. The design of the DPL was also highly
   relevant to Brazil’s, the state of Rio de Janeiro’s, and the World Bank’s development
   objectives, as it targeted priority policy areas for all three and responded to the client’s
   financing needs. The DPL achieved its overall purpose by assuring that GoRJ could
   sustain its reform and investment plans without being derailed by the temporary
   economic slowdown. The loan also caused no detrimental impact. Therefore, the overall
   outcome is rated satisfactory.

   3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

50. The policy actions supported by the DPL were deemed to have significantly positive
    direct and indirect impacts on poverty and social conditions. In addition, the social and
    environmental impact analysis carried out by the operation was considered to be of high
    quality by the World Bank’s Latin America Regional Safeguards Advisor.

51. The policy actions in the fiscal sustainability sector are expected to increase GoRJ’s
    capacity for public investment in infrastructure (thus creating jobs in the construction
    sector and improving the living conditions of the poorest communities). In the business
    environment sector, the policy actions regarding the Cadastro Fácil program will
    improve access to the formal market economy (and thus to safety nets, social security and
    retirement pensions) for self- and informally-employed laborers, while the Rio Poupa
    Tempo centers will increase the acquisition of official documentation (and thus to public
    services and redistributive policies) for the poor and most vulnerable groups. The actions
    in the education sector through the Projeto Autonomia are expected to reduce grade-age
    distortion among poor children and youth, and those through the Conexão Educação
    program to reduce rates of teacher and student absenteeism (both actions leading to
    reduced school drop-out and higher high school completion rates, and higher quality of
    education). Finally, in the health sector, the policy actions regarding the UPAs and the
    PAHI program will allow for greater access to public health services in poor areas (thus
    improving allocation of public health funds and the quality of care). The impact analysis
    also confirmed that the UPA units would not pose any displacement risk.

52. On the environmental side, assessments on the specific actions supported by this DPL
    were carried out and were deemed to not have any environmental impact. In particular, an
    environmental assessment was carried out on the UPAs to review the handling and
    disposal of medical waste and confirmed that they complied with the guidelines of
    Brazil’s National Health Surveillance Agency (ANVISA).




                                               14
   (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

53. Without the financial support this DPL provided to the GoRJ, its policies and programs
    may have faltered in the face of the fiscal crisis it was facing. The loan allowed for
    continued progress in and solidification of the implementation of these policies that were
    reaching a mature phase of formulation, and thus for strengthening of the institutional
    capacity of SEFAZ, SEEDUC and SESDEC. The policy actions supported by the DPL
    contributed to improvements in revenue collection and financial management, in the
    efficiency of resource use and prevention of leakages, in data collection and monitoring,
    and in the efficiency of services in the fiscal, business, education and health areas. They
    also contributed to strengthened dialogue between the state and its municipalities,
    especially in the health policy area with regards to the PAHI.

   (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

54. There were no unintended outcomes.

   3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

55. Not Applicable

   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: Low

56. The risk that the outcomes of the programs supported by this DPL will not be maintained
    is low, as the purpose of this DPL was precisely to support the sustainability of the
    GoRJ’s medium-term reform program in the face of expected revenue loss. The macro-
    economic position of the state is currently much more robust than it was before the loan
    was approved, and the large majority of the results indicators measured by this DPL point
    towards the supported policies being on track to have a long-lasting impact. Moreover,
    the few results indicators that were not fully achieved by the closing date, showed
    continued improvement after the closing date thus providing evidence of the sustained
    implementation of the policies supported by the DPL and sustainability of their impact.

57. Moreover, the World Bank’s dialogue with GoRJ and policy actions in the fiscal
    discipline, public sector management and service delivery areas will continue through the
    other two DPLs in this series – the RJ Metropolitan Urban and Housing Development
    DPL and especially the RJ State Fiscal Consolidation for Efficiency and Human
    Development DPL – and through the RJ State Renovating and Strengthening Public
    Management TAL. There were also no major unintended outcomes, which reflects how
    the program risks and mitigations thereof were suitably identified and incorporated into
    its design and implementation, and were realistic and tailored to the state conditions and
    priorities. Lastly, performance shortcomings of the state education system have begun to
    be mitigated through a very ambitious program implemented by a new and strengthened
    management team that assumed responsibility of SEEDUC after the 2010 political
    elections.



                                                15
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

   5.1 Bank Performance
   (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
    Rating: Satisfactory

58. The World Bank task team worked very closely with GoRJ in designing the DPL, and
    made sure to properly integrate both World Bank and GoRJ reform program priorities in
    the design of the operation. Negotiations with the Borrower also went smoothly and
    rapidly. It took only a little longer than four months to go from the Project Concept Note
    review meeting to Board approval, which allowed GoRJ to sustain its investment and
    reform plans with confidence and robustness even in the context of expected revenue
    decline. The analysis that established the design was also appropriate and solid, and even
    resulted in a large amount of extra analysis being done when the operation was still in
    SIL/SWAp form. Performance indicators and end targets were defined jointly by GoRJ
    and the World Bank team, and represented adequate and appropriate measures of the
    impact of each of the supported actions within the one-year implementation time frame of
    the loan. Changes in the indicators can be attributed to the implementation of the
    supported actions. Two pre-appraisal missions were carried out – in August and
    September 2009 – which were comprehensive and involved both World Bank and
    Borrower staff of high technical quality, thus resulting in detailed and accurate sector
    background information and indicator monitoring data. In particular, the World Bank
    technical staff helped assess the proposed policy actions against international best
    practices and contributed to strengthening the monitoring and evaluation focus of the
    most important ones (through the activities planned under the RJ State Renovating and
    Strengthening Public Management TAL). In addition, even though this was a DPL and
    would not trigger any safeguards, a full PSIA was carried out to confirm this.

59. The team responded to the client’s needs by choosing an appropriate instrument in a DPL,
    as it provided adequate and timely response to GoRJ’s changing development and
    expected fiscal needs. Although a single-tranche non-programmatic DPL limits the scope
    of continuity of policy support and monitoring from the World Bank, in this specific case
    such continuity is ensured by the strong partnership between the World Bank and the
    GoRJ in the policy areas supported by the operation. In particular, the upcoming RJ State
    Fiscal Consolidation for Efficiency and Human Development DPL will continue
    providing support to the fiscal management, education and health policy areas, and the RJ
    State Renovating and Strengthening Public Management TAL will also provide a vehicle
    for continued technical support.

   (b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Satisfactory

60. This was a single-tranche Loan for which all required policy actions were met by the
    government prior to negotiations, thus more emphasis was put on preparation than
    supervision. Nonetheless, the World Bank task team maintained constant dialogue with
    the appropriate government counterparts in the SEFAZ, SEEDUC and SESDEC after
    Loan approval, ensuring continuous positive sector dialogue and that the monitoring and


                                               16
   evaluation arrangements were sound throughout. In addition, there were two supervision
   missions – in March and October/November 2010 – carried out by World Bank staff of
   high technical quality, again resulting in comprehensive and accurate data and reports.
   The indicators were selected jointly by the World Bank and GoRJ and contributed to
   decision-making and helped assess whether the supported policies would have the
   expected impact (for example, the slower than expected progress in some of the
   indicators in the education policy area helped identify the need to strengthen capacity in
   SEEDUC). Moreover, the monitoring of indicators was coordinated effectively between
   the World Bank and the respective state secretariats, leading to the data being continually
   available and reliable. Monitoring of the performance and results of these programs will
   be continued through the RJ State Fiscal Consolidation for Efficiency and Human
   Development DPL (which will continue to focus on and expand some of these same
   policies) and the RJ State Renovating and Strengthening Public Management TAL
   (which will support several monitoring and evaluation activities in both the education and
   health sectors).

   (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

61. The World Bank task team maintained a quality sector dialogue with GoRJ both during
    Loan preparation and throughout implementation of the operation. It also ensured that the
    DPL was designed based on sound analytical underpinnings, and that both World Bank
    and Borrower staff involved in the design and supervision of the Loan were of high
    technical quality. Most importantly, the World Bank team ensured that the results
    monitoring data was available and accurate throughout program identification, design and
    implementation. Thus, due to the performance at ensuring quality at entry and the quality
    of supervision both being satisfactory, the overall performance of the World Bank is rated
    satisfactory.

   5.2 Borrower Performance
   (a) Government Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

62. The government and implementing agencies are treated as the same unit for the purpose
    of borrower performance analysis (see section 5.2 (b) below).

   (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

63. SEFAZ demonstrated very strong leadership and cooperation throughout preparation and
    implementation of the program, greatly contributing to its smooth operation. SEFAZ
    management was supportive of and committed to the program, and thus ensured good
    coordination of the work of the other agencies involved in the program, and good quality
    of the implementation and monitoring of its own reforms. SESDEC also presented strong
    and supportive management, leading to the UPA and PAHI programs surpassing their
    targeted results and remaining on track to expand even more. SEEDUC’s performance
    was weaker, which resulted in delays in the implementation of some aspects of the


                                               17
   Projeto Autonomia and Conexão Educação programs. However, management of
   SEEDUC was strengthened after the 2010 political elections and a very ambitious and
   reform-oriented program is being implemented to address the main shortcomings of the
   state education system. Most importantly, all secretariats consistently delivered good
   quality monitoring reports and data throughout program design and implementation.

64. All government policy actions were met before negotiations, showing strong ownership
    of the program. The policy actions have also been sustained effectively throughout Loan
    implementation, even in the face of possible disruption from political elections.

   (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

65. GoRJ’s state secretariats that helped prepare and implement this DPL are institutionally
    strong and have efficient monitoring systems. All prior policy actions were met by the
    government in a timely manner and political elections did not cause any disruption of
    program implementation. Thus, due to the performance of the implementing agencies
    being satisfactory, despite one of the secretariats presenting minor performance issues
    that were later overcome, the overall performance of the Borrower has a rating of
    satisfactory.

   6. Lessons Learned

66. The major lesson learned from planning and implementation of this DPL has to do with
    the case of the initially weak capacity of SEEDUC, which after the political transition
    was strengthened and began to mitigate the performance shortcomings that the programs
    in the education area were exhibiting. This demonstrates the need for strong management
    in a program’s implementing agency in order for implementation not to be derailed and
    for targeted results to be achieved.

67. Another lesson this DPL taught refers to the appropriateness of the intervening
    instrument in responding to the needs of the client. A rapidly-disbursing single-tranche
    DPL is appropriate for clients that need timely responses because of unexpected projected
    fiscal issues in the specific case of the GoRJ, and is most likely to be successful with
    clients that have a robust policy framework, well-defined programs and sound monitoring
    and evaluation systems in place, as was the case with GoRJ.

68. These two lessons lead to a third lesson relating to the importance of continuity of policy
    dialogue with the government. Despite the non-programmatic nature of this DPL,
    dialogue with GoRJ and the policies supported by this loan will continue to be supported
    through the strong partnership between the World Bank and the GoRJ. The current RJ
    Metropolitan Urban and Housing Development DPL, the upcoming RJ State Fiscal
    Consolidation for Efficiency and Human Development DPL (designed to reinforce the
    same issues of fiscal discipline, public sector management, health and education as this
    DPL), and the ongoing RJ State Renovating and Strengthening Public Management TAL
    are providing the vehicles for continued policy support. Moreover, the Bank’s Brazil



                                                18
   Education Team has also been providing excellent technical support to SEEDUC through
   its analytical program in many ways, including on how to design a teacher bonus
   program and how to identify the factors that explain why certain classrooms and teachers
   are more effective than others.

69. This DPL also demonstrated the following: (a) the importance of client ownership of the
    policy program and of close dialogue with the Borrower during both preparation and
    implementation of the operation; (b) the importance of the technical quality of both
    World Bank team and implementing agency staff; and (c) the importance of accurate and
    reliable monitoring and evaluation systems all along the operation cycle, from design, to
    implementation, to completion.

   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

   (a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

70. This ICR incorporates the data included in the Borrower’s ICR, summarized in Annex 4.

71. This ICR incorporates comments received before and during its Quality Enhancement
    Review meeting.

   (b) Cofinanciers

72. Not Applicable

   (c) Other partners and stakeholders

73. Not Applicable




                                               19
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                    Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Michele Gragnolati             Sector Leader, Human Development        LCSHD   Task Team Leader
Erica Pereira Amorim           E.T. Consultant                         LCSHE   Education
Juliana Wenceslau Biriba       Consultant                              LCSUW   Public Sect. Mgmt.
Fernando Blanco                Sr. Economist                           AFTP4   Fiscal
Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga   Sr. Environmental Specialist            AFTEN   Environment
Mariane Brito                  E.T. Temporary                          LCC5C   Admin. Support
Barbara Bruns                  Lead Education Economist                LCSHE   Education
Tito Cordella                  Lead Economist                          LCC5C   Macro-economy
Regis Cunnigham                Sr. Financial Management Specialist     LCSFM   Financial Mgmt.
David Evans                    Economist                               LCSHE   Education
Pablo Fajnzylber               Sector Leader, PREM                     LCSPR   Fiscal
Evelyn Levy                    Consultant                              LCSAR   Public Sect. Mgmt.
Judith Lisansky                Sr. Anthropologist                      LCSSO   Poverty/Social
Andre C. Medici                Sr. Economist                           LCSHH   Health
Mariana Montiel                Sr. Council                             LEGLA   Legal
Alberto Ninio                  Lead Council                            LEGEN   Legal
Daniela Pena de Lima           Sr. Operations Officer                  LCSHH   Health
Gunars Platais                 Sr. Environmental Economist             LCSEN   Environment
Catarina Isabel Portelo        Sr. Council                             LEGLA   Legal
Luis Prada                     Sr. Procurement Specialist              MNAPR   Procurement
Tatiana Proskuryakova          Country Operations Adviser              LCC7C   Operations
Marize Santos                  Program Assistant                       LCSHD   Admin. Support
Cristian Quijada Torres        Private Sector Development Specialist   LCSPF   Private Sect. Devt.
Jose Guilherme Reis            Lead Trade Economist                    PRMTR   Private Sect. Devt.
Romero C. Barreto Rocha        E.T. Consultant                         LCSHD   Health
Yaye Seynabou Sakho            Sr. Country Economist                   LCSPE   Fiscal/Macro
Ricardo Silveira               Senior Operations Officer               HDNGA   Education
Ngoc-Bich Tran                 Consultant                              LCSPE   Fiscal/Macro
Carla Zardo                    Program Assistant                       LCC5C   Admin. Support
Supervision
Michele Gragnolati             Sector Leader, Human Development        LCSHD   Task Team Leader
Barbara Bruns                  Lead Education Economist                LCSHE   Education
Andre C. Medici                Sr. Economist                           LCSHH   Health
Thomas Kenyon                  Sr. Private Sector Development Spec.    LCSPF   Private Sect. Devt.
Yaye Seynabou Sakho            Sr. Country Economist                   LCSPE   Fiscal/Macro
Erica Pereira Amorim           E.T. Consultant                         LCSHE   Education
Romero C. Barreto Rocha        E.T. Consultant                         LCSHD   Health
Rafael Chelles Barroso         E.T. Consultant                         LCSPE   Fiscal/Macro




                                                20
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY09                                            0                   33.87
FY10                                        74.11                  456.19
                          Total:            74.11                  490.06
Supervision
FY10                                            0                   14.70
FY11                                        15.08                  110.01
                          Total:            15.08                  124.71




                                       21
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                      22
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                   23
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(This annex translates and summarizes the Borrower’s ICR, received on April 10, 2011.)

From: Renato Villela, State Secretary of Finance, SEFAZ, GoRJ
To: Michele Gragnolati, Project TTL and Human Devt. Sector Leader, World Bank
Date: April 8, 2011
Re: LN 7827-BR – Programa de Desenvolvimento Econômico, Social e de
Sustentabilidade Fiscal do Estado do Rio de Janeiro – PRODESF-Rio, ICR

Per your request, we present here the Government of the State of Rio de Janeiro’s
evaluation of the results and performance of the Program and of the compliance with the
obligations of the terms established in the Loan Agreement.

Through PRODESF, GoRJ sought to guarantee resources to continue and expand the
actions being undertaken in the state’s priority areas, namely: education, health,
improvement of the business environment, and fiscal sustainability. The objective is to
strengthen strategic programs relative to improving and expanding the coverage of
services provided by the state public education and health networks, to stimulating the
development of the private sector, and to strengthening of the fiscal adjustment initiated
in 2007, in the first term of the current state administration.

1. EDUCATION

1.1. PROJETO AUTONOMIA

The first goal of this component includes a substantial reduction in age-grade distortion
during the last years of the ensino fundamental (only the 5th-8th grades) and ensino médio
(high school), through the implementation of the accelerated education program Projeto
Autonomia.

1.1.1. Projeto Autonomia Results

•   Primary Targets and Results Achieved

Table 1 – Teachers trained for Projeto Autonomia
              Year                         2008                   2010
             Target                         0                     1,362
             Results                        0                     2,030

Table 2 – Students enrolled in Projeto Autonomia
              Year                         2008                    2010
             Target                         0                     43,000
             Results                        0                     31,263




                                           24
1.1.2. Projeto Autonomia Performance

In order to achieve the established target of 43,000 students enrolled in the program,
approximately 1,000 classes would need to be created, with an average of 30 students in
each. The number of teachers trained in the program exceeded the established target and
constituted a sufficient number to meet the demand for these 1,000 classes. However, due
to SEEDUC budgetary constraints, the resources were not sufficient to cover overtime
payment for all the trained teachers, which prevented the creation of the targeted number
of classes, with only 550 being created.

It is noted that this overtime payment is necessary to cover the increase in the workload
of a Projeto Autonomia teacher from 16 to (in most cases) 24 weekly work hours. This
was a limiting factor in the achievement of the target for number of student enrolled.

1.2. CONEXÃO EDUCAÇÃO PROGRAM

This component aimed at increasing the efficiency of the education management system.

1.2.1. Conexão Educação Results

•   Primary Targets and Results Achieved

Table 3 –Students receiving Smart Cards (Cartão de Identificação do Estudante)
             Year                      2009                       2010
            Target                       0                      600,000
            Results                      0                      771,291

•   Monthly reports on teacher and student absenteeism per school unit delivered to the
    Human Resources Management Superintendence within 7 days before the last day of
    the month; and
•   Monthly report on expenditures for student meals and transport produced within the
    last 14 days of the month.
    o In reference to the information on student absenteeism, Conexão Educação
        enabled the generation of bi-monthly reports, due to technological improvement.
        Regarding teacher absenteeism, Conexão Educação enables the cross-checking of
        data of existing reports (the program does not generate direct data on teacher
        absenteeism).
    o Technological viability for the generation of reports at any moment, with up-to-
        date data.

1.2.2. Conexão Educação Performance

A) Student Smart Cards (Cartões de Identificação do Estudante)

A total of 771,291 Cartões do Aluno were issued. This number exceeds the target
established with the World Bank of 600,000 cards. It’s important to highlight, however,
that the issuance of cards is not a direct reflection of the number of cards that are being


                                            25
effectively used by the students. Numerous student movements occur during the school
year within the functioning dynamic of the network, such as new students entering the
system, students concluding their education, and students that departing the school for
other reasons. This movement ultimately is reflected in 4 different situations regarding
the number of cards in circulation:

1) Active Cards – enrolled students attending school: 601,525 cards
2) Canceled Cards – students dropping out for a variety of reasons: 36,242 cards
3) Blocked Cards – students misusing the card on public transport: 133,524 cards
4) Issued Cards – cumulative total of all above cards: 771,291 cards

B) Teacher Absenteeism

The first point to be observed is the fact that Conexão Educação does not allow for
monitoring of teacher absenteeism, as established as a target with the World Bank. Even
if the data on “teacher absenteeism” does not have a specific monitor within the project,
guiding indicators can be obtained through cross-checking of data from the Quadro de
Horários 1 (timesheet) and Docente On-Line 2 (online instructor) modules. By cross-
checking this data, an indication can be obtained on whether a teacher did not teach a
class or cannot input the information in the system. The manual analysis of this data is
necessary in order to obtain the actual absenteeism data.

C) Student Absenteeism

The monitoring of student attendance is done by the Docente On-Line module. It is
important to remember that since Conexão Educação introduced a new system of
routines for the teachers and school administrators, there was also the need for various
training activities in this new tool. Nonetheless, the use of the system in its full form is
still taking place gradually. Therefore it is still not possible to systematically obtain the
rate of absenteeism for the entire educational network through Conexão. At the same
time, SEEDUC is making progress on the expansion of the system and relevant data
regarding student absenteeism can indeed be measured.

D) Public Transport

As with the Student Smart Card, Conexão Educação allowed for reports on student lunch
and transport to be directly obtained by any administrative area with access to the system.
Thus, monthly reports were not produced since the reports could be generated at any
moment with up-to-date data through Conexão.



1
  The Quadro de Horários is a Conexão Educação module that identifies the distribution of teachers within
the schools according to their course load, allowing for the recording of temporary and actual shortages,
and for the monitoring of teachers’ leaves of absence.
2
  The Docente On-Line is a Conexão Educação module that bi-monthly records student attendance and
grades, and the number of classes taught by teachers.


                                                   26
It is worth noting that recording the use of public transport by the students through
Conexão Educação is only possible in the regions/municipalities where electronic
ticketing exists. Further points that should be considered are:

•   The fact that each student uses a different daily quantity of passes, as a function of the
    fluctuating home-school-home route;
•   The process of substituting the current public transport card (RioCard) for the Smart
    Card in the municipalities where electronic ticketing exists;
•   The agreements and negotiations with the diverse bus unions for the acceptance/use
    of the Smart Card in buses;
•   The integration of the Smart Card with the subways, trains and ferries.

E) School Lunches

Regarding the consumption of school lunches, since SEEDUC installed the necessary
recording equipment throughout the entire school network through Conexão Educação, it
is possible to assess the quantity of lunches consumed. This control is possible even for
students who do not possess their own cards, the control in this case being done through
the Cartão Master3.

2. HEALTH

2.1. PROGRAMA DE APOIO AOS HOSPITAIS DO INTERIOR (PAHI)

2.1.1. PAHI Results

•   Primary Target and Results Achieved

Table 4 – PAHI performance agreements signed with municipalities
             Year                    2009                      2010
            Target                      0                       50
           Results                      0                       64

Of the 64 municipalities that joined the program:

•   54 have hospitals, for a total of 61 hospitals
•   10 do not have hospitals

2.1.2. PAHI Performance

A) Municipal Management




3
  The Cartão Master is the card used by the person responsible for lunches in the school to register the
lunches served to the students who do not possess their own or who forgot their card.


                                                  27
    •   Reduction in child mortality (source: SISNAC/SUS): rate reduced in 30
        municipalities
    •   Increase in the number of prenatal checkups (source: SISNAC and
        SISPRENATAL/SUS) – proportion of newborns with 7 or more prenatal
        checkups: number increased in 33 municipalities

B) Hospital Management
   • Reduction in hospital maternal mortality (source: SISNAC/SUS): rate reduced in
      40 of the 43 hospitals with maternity services
   • Reduction in the rate of hospital infection (source: hospitals):
      o Hospital infection in clean surgeries: rate reduced in 10 hospitals; remained
          constant to historical rate in 41 hospitals; increased in 4 hospitals.
      o Infection related to pneumonia in mechanically ventilated patients: rate
          reduced in 35 hospitals; increased in 2 hospitals; 18 hospitals do not have
          mechanical ventilation equipment.
      o Urinary tract infection related to bladder catheters: rate reduced in 42
          hospitals; increased in 5 hospitals; 8 hospitals did not provide target
          information.

2.2. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNIDADES DE PRONTO ATENDIMENTO
     PRÉ-HOSPITALAR FIXO (UPAs)

22 UPAs were established in the state.

2.2.1. UPA Program Results

•   Primary Targets and Results Achieved

Table 5 – Number of services at UPAs
           Year                 2008               2009               2010
          Target             1.3 million        2.4 million        3.7 million
  Results (cumulative)
        - Services           1,427,128          3,835,507           6,252,342
       - Removals               6,159            23,488              37,514

Even though it states on page 43 of the loan proposal document:

    “116. Expected results. The expected outcomes in the area of providing coverage
    for urgent and emergency care are an improved distribution of urgent and
    emergency care services across the health services network, a reduction of
    hospital-based services and an increased coverage and reduced wait times for
    medical services, especially for the immediate needs of the poorest populations.
    The main indicator in this area is the number of people receiving services at the
    UPA, which is expected to increase from 2.4 million in 2009 to 3.7 million in
    2010”




                                           28
we worked with the results matrix in annex 2, page 59, which indicates a cumulative
target and describes the effort’s objectives as the improvement of the quality of
treatment of the urgent and emergency services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, [with
lower cost than the same services offered in hospitals and with greater treatment capacity
than services offered by the Saúde da Família program], and has as expected results the
improvement in the distribution of urgent and emergency services in the health network,
focusing on the reduction in and qualification of these same services offered in hospitals,
and on the increase in treatment facility locations, consequently reducing the wait time
for treatment.

The analysis of the above results indicates that 1,427,128 services were tendered in 2008,
2,408,379 in 2009, and 2,416,835 in 2010, for a total of 6,252,342 services during the
analyzed period. The amount of the increase in services from 2008 to 2009 was expected,
as the first year of implementation of the 22 UPAs was progressive, while in 2009 and
2010 the UPAs were already in full operation from January 1st.

As the physical space inside the units is limited, controlling the minimum number of
professionals and services, an increase of more than 51% in the number of
patients/treatment in the 22 units could not be expected, since the program focuses on the
improvement of the distribution of services throughout the network and on the reduction
of wait time.

One occurrence that was not expected during program negotiations, but still highly hoped
for due to the benefits provided to the state populace and more importantly to Rio de
Janeiro municipality and metropolitan regions, was the fact that after the beginning of the
term of the current Rio de Janeiro Municipal Government, an alignment between the
municipal, state and national health programs occurred. Another change of occurrence
during this period was the inauguration of UPAs managed by the Rio de Janeiro
Municipal Government. 8 municipal UPAs began operating fully during 2010. In this
same period, 6 more fully-operating UPAs were inaugurated by SESDEC, located within
the metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro municipality.

According to the analysis, we can conclude that, in addition to the great increase in
coverage of the Saúde da Família program, the integrated actions of the governmental
spheres added 14 UPAs to the metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro, which had 84
months of full operations in 2010, redistributing the services throughout the integrated
health network.

2.2.2. UPA Program Performance

•   Improvement in the distribution of the urgent and emergency services in the Public
    Health Services Network, reducing the number of hospital service treatments.

Table 8 – Resolution of services at UPAs
      % Removals                  0.60
      % Resolution                99.4



                                            29
Taking in to account that at the start of the program practically all patients sought urgent
and emergency attention in hospitals, the very high resolution percentage of the UPAs, in
addition to having filled a sanitary void that had not been previously identified, also
began to highly contribute to the expected performance in the reduction in the number of
hospital service treatments.

•   Increase in the coverage of urgent and emergency services across the network,
    reducing wait time for medical services, focusing on the immediate needs of the
    poorest population.

During the preceding negotiations it was agreed that for the target of reducing the wait
time for medical services with the increase in the coverage of the urgent and emergency
services in the network, the indicator used would be the Average Wait Time for Green
Risk Patient (Tempo Médio de Espera para Atendimento do Paciente Classificado como
Risco Verde - TMERV), according to the Manchester Protocol (Triage System), and that
the base line used would be the average time of the 22 UPAs in 2009, which was of 59.6
minutes. A reduction of 12.2% in the TMERV was obtained. Thus, the wait time was
reduced from 59.6 minutes (2009) to 52.3 minutes (2010), achieving the program’s
expected results.

3. FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY

3.1. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

The business environment reforms proposed in the program had the objective of
increasing the state’s competitiveness in attracting new investments and of supporting
economic diversification and growth, through the reduction of the excessive bureaucracy
of the processes, the increase in the integration of the governmental agencies that deal
directly with the private sector, and of the intensification of the changes in SEFAZ
processes.

The current GoRJ [created] the SEFAZ Fácil, which covers a range of services, from the
establishment of businesses to attending to the general public (taxpayers as well as
investors), with the primary focus being the time it takes to open a business.

3.1.1. Cadastro Fácil Results

•   Primary Target and Results Achieved

Table 11 – Reduction in the average number of days to register a firm
          Year                  2008               2009                  2010
         Target                  63                 50                    30
         Results                 63                 57                    36




                                            30
3.1.2. Cadastro Fácil Performance

Initially scheduled to begin starting in April 2009, the program was postponed to
September 2009, due to the need to establish a unified information system between the
different actors in the process (internal and external to SEFAZ). Thus, the effective
program initiation happened only on December 15, 2009. Consequently, the business
opening process remained unchanged throughout 2009, making it not possible to measure
the effects of the de-bureaucratizing process during that year.

In 2010, the number of days for the granting of state registration was reduced
significantly. However, there are “problematic” cases for which such registration grants
can take more than a year. In general, 95% of registrations (more than 27,000) were
granted, within up to 28 days, on average.

With a more efficient process, one of the expected results, as indicated in the policy
matrix, relates to the reduction in informality. According to the Monthly Employment
Survey (by the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística - IBGE), the number of
employees with formal worker’s permits in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region
increased 7% between December 2009 and December 2010, while the number of workers
without formal permits decreased 8%.

Another expected result, the reduction in costs, was measured by the increase in services
to businesses within the Rio Poupa Tempo program. In 2010, a greater than expected
positive impact was demonstrated, with an increase around 28%, which demonstrates the
success of the integrated management of Rio Poupa Tempo.

3.2. FISCAL CONSOLIDATION

Since 2007, the new state administration determined that more robust fiscal measures
must be implemented. The justification for this does not have only legal bases. These
changes made it possible to reduce unnecessary expenses and, in fact, create a long-term
project for the state.

Initially, the state determined its objectives and targets through the Plano Plurianual,
besides being in accord with the federal Programa de Ajuste Fiscal. On the other hand, in
order to achieve its objectives and targets, the state government performed quality
management, significantly enhancing the operational capacity of the state, improving its
fiscal and financial indicators while facing a greater institutionalization of its
administrative processes.

3.2.1. Reduction of the Long-Term Fiscal Risk

In order to reduce the long term fiscal risk, the state government incorporated the
property rights over the royalties and special participation deriving from the extraction of
oil and gas in the state to the domain of the RioPrevidência. This was done through
Decree No. 42.011/2009, which established that these revenues must be used to benefit



                                            31
the state’s social security institution, blocking them from being used for other ends. This
measure was incorporated to PRODESF as a loan condition.

3.2.1.1.       Program Results

•   Primary Target and Results Achieved

Table 12 – Assets of the pension fund not subject to executive discretion (in millions)
        Year               2007           2008             2009              2010
       Target                -              -           R$ 48,459         R$ 50,495
      Results           R$ 13,243      R$ 16,229        R$ 53,777         R$ 54,332

3.2.1.2. Program Performance

The results achieved show that the state transferred values greater than the agreed, due
mainly to the greater than expected increase in the price of oil during the period of
December 2008 and July 2010. It should also be noted that the production from the Tupi
oil field was not included in the calculation basis of the royalties.

By concentrating the resources on the pension fund, RioPrevidência was able to pay in
full all pensions, thus freeing up this portion of the state’s budget for use on other
expenses. It is worth noting that these transfers improved the actuarial situation of the
fund which is presently audited with transparency and free of past instabilities.

3.2.2. Increase in Tax Revenue

3.2.2.1.       Results of the Programs

•   Primary Target and Results Achieved

Table 13 – Value of tax collected (in millions)
        Year               2007             2008           2009              2010
       Target                -                -          R$ 24,413         R$ 26,438
       Results          R$ 20,183       R$ 22,920        R$ 24,884         R$ 29,086

Table 14 – Number of electronic invoices issued
        Year             2007            2008               2009             2010
       Target              -               -             33,152,037       95% of total
      Results              -          5,626,353          56 million       81% of total

3.2.2.2.       Performance of the Programs

The increase in tax revenue was achieved through the modernization of the processes
used in the inspection of businesses. SEFAZ adopted an agenda of appreciation of its
staff, in particular the tax inspectors, who are the ones responsible for the collection of
state taxes. The hiring of well-qualified civil servants (tax inspectors) and training of the
existing ones positively impacted state tax revenue, with the chosen target for measuring



                                              32
this circumstance being the absolute value of the tax collected. During the last two years,
304 inspectors were trained and 172 new agents joined the tax inspector team in the state.

It is necessary to point out that the economic recovery of the state assisted in the increase
in tax revenue. It is noted that it is not possible to determine how much the tax collected
increased through the qualification and quantification of the state inspection and how
much was due to the increase in economic activity. However, the efforts towards
improvement of the inspection methods seem to have played a large part, since the
increase in tax revenues have remained above SEFAZ targets.

It is important to affirm that inspection was not the only area that improved. The issuance
of electronic invoices allows for remitting businesses to reduce the administrative costs
associated with everything from acquisition/printing/storing of invoices to accounting
time. While for the receiving businesses, besides the reduction in administrative costs, the
logistics planning for the receipt of merchandise become possible through the advance
knowledge of the information contained in the electronic invoices.

Since 2008, business have been gradually adopting the issuance of electronic invoices
according to Protocol ICMS No. 10/2007, with the percentage being the indicator for the
agreed condition. Initially the protocol covered the business in more concentrated sectors,
with the more “varied” sectors forecast to be included later. According to the schedule
established by SEFAZ, all businesses in the determined sectors, totaling 90,100, should
have registered by December 2010.

In 2010, 82 million electronic invoices were issued, corresponding to 72,685 businesses.
In spite of the significant increase in the number of electronic invoices issued, more than
45% than in 2009, the percentage of businesses that adopted the system remained below
the expected value, due mainly to business associations themselves requesting a delay in
the deadline for registration at the national level, which caused all the secretariats of
finance to postpone the deadline to April 2011. The aim is to migrate all the activities
from the old (paper) system to the modern (electronic) system without any losses to the
country’s economy.

3.2.3. Increase in Efficiency of Public Spending

3.2.3.1.       Program Results

A)    Improvement of Financial Management

•    Primary Target and Results Achieved

Table 15 – Financial revenue from cash flow management (in millions)
        Year              2007           2008         2009                 2010
       Target               -              -         R$ 542               R$ 550
      Results            R$ 288        R$ 500        R$ 501               R$ 542




                                             33
Table 16 – Net financial position (in millions)
        Year              2007             2008         2009             2010
       Target               -                -        R$ 1,191.9       R$ 1,233.6
      Results         (R$ 1,402.5)      R$ 1,140.6     R$ 632.6        R$ 2,176.5

B) Greater Predictability and Transparency

•   Primary Target and Results Achieved

Table 17 – Percentage of payments made in less than 30 days
        Year              2007         2008              2009              2010
       Target               -            -               82%               84%
      Results               -            -              83.4%             94.2%

Table 18 – Percentage of goods and services contracted using Pregão Eletrônico
        Year              2007           2008            2009             2010
       Target               -              -             90%              95%
      Results               -              -            85.4%            96.2%

3.2.3.2.       Program Performance

A) Improvement of Financial Management

Three factors explain the performance of the financial investments in 2009 and 2010: (i)
the crisis in 2009 resulted in a decreased final balance; (ii) the monetary policy response
to the economic crisis included decreasing the Special System of Clearance and Custody
(SELIC) rate, which had an impact on the remuneration that the state received from
private banks, indexed by the Interbank Deposit Certificates (CDI) (directly influenced
by the SELIC); and (iii) the state government changed the payment date for its civil
servants, causing the state to lose remuneration from its financial applications for 5 or 6
days.

Among the factors that influenced the achievement of the [net financial position] target in
2009 are: (i) delays implementing accounting adjustments deriving from the adoption of
Constitutional Amendment No. 62/2009, which deals with judicial payments; (ii) the
settlement of the Liquidity Public Debt Fund (Fundo de Liquidez da Dívida Pública); and
(iii) external factors, such as frustration revenue during that year.

However, since there was no time to make accounting adjustments in 2009 [in relation to
the first adjustment], the positive effect could not be reflected in that year. The
accounting adjustments [of the second adjustment] also could not be reflected in the 2009
accounts.

But in 2010, the effects of the adoption of the accounting criteria for the judicial
payments were reflected, which caused the payment expenses to be moved from short- to
long-term liabilities. In addition, there was also the reduction in third party resources in
the coffers of the State Treasury and in the amount of expenses entered into the accounts


                                             34
payable, maintaining a balanced budget and finances, and fulfilling the provisions of the
Fiscal Responsibility Law (Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal).

B) Greater Predictability and Transparency

The number of services contracted by procurement by SEFAZ in 2009 was small, with 6
contracts (not using the Pregão Eletrônico procurement method) representing 15% of the
total.

The reforms that were carried out culminated with Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services
giving the state, on March 30, 2010, a global Issuer Credit rating of BBB- with stable
outlook (foreign and local long term) and a National Scale rating of brAAA with stable
outlook (local long term). The ratings outlook is considered stable, as the agency
considers that the state will continue to gradually strengthen its fiscal and financial
indicators.

4. FINAL CONSIDERATIONS

For at least a decade, Brazil has been going through legal and administrative changes to
guarantee that fiscal reforms be implemented in all levels of government. The
implementation of this reform was (and still is) fundamental for the consolidation of a
favorable macroeconomic environment for investment and for income, job, and public
service provision growth.

Since it is a program that touches all spheres of government, there are also administrative
and institutional changes to be implemented. The state of Rio de Janeiro, innovatively
prepared a schedule for the necessary reforms to be implemented without impairing the
provision of services such as education, health, safety, etc.

In 2007, the new state government defined clear priorities in this direction. In the domain
of SEFAZ, it was crucial to organize state finances and, in this way, open fiscal space for
the implementation of investments and the recovery of the public instrument. It was also
important for bureaucratic simplification measures to be implemented, improving the
business environment in our state. The determination and efforts of SEFAZ towards the
improvement of the finances began quickly bearing fruit and the results began to show:
state revenue collection increased at a rate never experienced before; the opening of new
businesses grew at unparalleled rates; the state was removed from an uncomfortable state
of debt, since the average time for the fulfillment of state obligations and the costs were
significantly reduced; and the investment environment was recovered, thus permitting the
increase of investments in essential government activities. These were the first steps in
the state’s preparation for the challenges to come in the following years. In March 2010,
integrating the progress obtained on various fronts, the state of Rio de Janeiro attained for
the first time an investment grade rating from the international risk rating agency
Standard and Poor’s, becoming the first Brazilian subnational entity to receive this rating.




                                             35
The World Bank’s support of the proposed policies, in the capacity of the PRODESF, has
permitted the GoRJ to maintain the continuity of the measures focused on the
improvement of service delivery in the areas of education and health, on fiscal
sustainability, and on the improvement of the business environment. It is furthermore
anticipated that that new programs for the continued improvement of public management
and business environment in the state of Rio de Janeiro be solidly supported by the World
Bank, so as to contribute to perfecting the reforms already implemented.




                                           36
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    37
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire – Pre-appraisal Mission: August 2009.

Aide Memoire – Pre-appraisal Mission: September 2009.

Project Concept Note: September 2009.

Poverty and Social Impact Analysis: September 2009.

Program Information Document: September 2009.

World Bank. Program Document for a Proposed Loan to the State of Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil, for a Fiscal Sustainability, Human Development and Competitiveness
Development Policy Loan. Report No. 52146-BR. December 16, 2009.

Loan Agreement: March 2010.

Implementation Status and Results Report: March 2010.

Aide Memoire – Supervision Mission: October/November 2010.

Implementation Status and Results Report: December 2010.

Governo do Estado do Rio de Janeiro. Plano Estratégico, 2007-2010.

Governo do Brazil, Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão. Plano Plurianual,
2008-2011.

World Bank. Country Partnership Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil for the
Period FY 2008-2011. Report No. 42677-BR. May 6, 2008.

World Bank. Doing Business 2010: Brazil.

World Bank. Doing Business 2011: Brazil.

World Bank. Doing Business 2010: Reforming Through Difficult Times.

World Bank. Doing Business 2011: Making a Difference for Entrepreneurs.




                                           38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 27970
                              45°00'                                44°30'                             44°00'                                                                             43°30'                                                 43°00'                                           42°30'                                          42°00'                                       41°30'                                        41°00'                                        40°30'
20°30'
                                                            BRAZIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ESPÍRITO
                               STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANTO
                                                         PARAÍBA DO SUL RIVER BASIN BOUNDARY
                                                         RIVERS
                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                         STATE CAPITAL
                                                         MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
21°00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Natividade                                                                                                                                                 21°00'
                                                         STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Itab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              apo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Muriaé                                           Itaperuna
                                            0              25                   50             75
                                                                  KILOMETERS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Miracema




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rio




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                é
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               No
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vo                                            Leopoldína              Po
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Rio                                                                                         mb
21°30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a                                                                                                                                                                            21°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Santo Antonio
                                                                                                                                                                                 Ri                                                                                                                                     de Pádua
                                                                                                                                                                                      o
                                                                                                                                                                                          P   ar
                                                                                                                                 MINAS                                                           a   íb
                                                                                                                                                                                                          un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GERAIS                                                                                                                             São Fidélis                                                                       São João
                                                                                                                                                                                                               a                                                                                                                                                                                                                             da Barra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Juiz de Fora
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Campos




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sul




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            aíb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Par




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rio                            Carmo            Cantaglo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lagoa
22°00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Feia                                                    This map was produced by the                  22°00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cordeiro                                     Conceição                                                                                             Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             de Macabu
                                                                                                                        to                                                                                         Paraíba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                  Pre                                                                                                                  ˇ
                                                                                                            Rio                                                                                                     do Sul         Tres Rios
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bom Jardim                                                                                                                                             The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                     Valença                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                 Su                                                                                                                                Nova Friburgo                                                                                                                                                   such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                            do




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P ia b a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R io
                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                   íb
                                                                                                                                              ra                                                                                                  Teresópolis                                                                                                                                                                                41°00'                                        40°30'
                                                                                                     Santa Cecília                       Pa                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Macaé
                                                                                                                                     o
                                                                   Resende                          Pumping Station             Ri                                                                                         Petrópolis                             Cachoeiras
                                                                                                                                     Barra                                                                                                                        de Macacu                                                                                                                                                                                    G U YANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VENEZUELA                         FRENCH
22°30'                                                                                                                               do Piraí                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22°30'                                                         GUIANA
                                                                      Funil                         Volta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SURINAME
                                                                                 Barra Mansa        Redonda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Atlantic Ocean
                                                                    Reservoir
                                        l
                                   Su                                                                                                                       Paracambi
                              do                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Magé                                           Silva Jardim
                          a
                     íb




                                                                                                                                                                 Ri o Gu an du
                ra                                                                                  R . Pi ra í                                                                                                                                                                           Rio Bonito
           Pa                                                                                                                                                                                               Nova                                           Itaboraí
       o                                                                                                                                                                                                   Iguaçu
  Ri
                                                                                                                                  Guandu                                                                                                                                                                                 São Pedro
                                                                                                                               Water Treatment                                                                   Duque                          Baía de                                                                  da Aldeia
                                                                                                                                                                                                               de Caxias
 S Ã O PA U L O                                                                                                              Itaguaí
                                                                                                                                     Plant                                                                                                     Guanabara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Nitorói                   Maricá
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rio de Janeiro                                                                                                                                       Cabo Frio                                                                                                       B R A Z I L
                              a
                          ng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lagoa de                                                                                              PERU
                                                                                                                             Baía de
                     íti




                                                                                     Angra dos Reis                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Araruama                                                                                     23°00'
                 ra




23°00'                                                                                                                       Sepetiba                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Brasília
            Pa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOLIVIA
           o
   Ri




                                                            Baía da Ilha Grande




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pacific Ocean
                                                Parati                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PA R A G U AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Area of map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A T L A N T I C                                                  O C E A N                                                                                                                              ARGENTINA                                      Atlantic Ocean
                              45°00'                                44°30'                             44°00'                                                                             43°30'                                                 43°00'                                           42°30'                                          42°00'                                       41°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JUNE 1996
