Doce_nt of
The World Bank
FOR OMcAL USE ONLY
Reput No. P-4138-X
'.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEEkT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MLLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 5, 1985
.
ThI dgsmd 1  a u dmi  b h. mi iU be mind by iecIpkin  emly in the ped dce o
ther eadm  dud. lob i     may   .th.wie be bded owII   Wed Bmk xsth.inum.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currer-ey Unit - CFA Franc (CFAP) 1/
US$1.0 - CFAF 450
CPAF 1 - US$0.0022
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)           0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (ki2) - 0.38 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (mton)      - 2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
Government:        January 1 - December 31
Banking System:    October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO         -  Central Bank of West African States
("Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest")
BIDI          -  Ivorian Bank for Industrial Development
("Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement
Industriel")
CAPEN         -  Center for Assistance to and Promotion cf National
Enterprises ("'Centre d'Assistance et de
Promotion des Entreprises Nationales")
CAISSTAB      -  Caisse de Stabilization et de Soutien des Prix des
Produits Agricoles ("Agriculture Products Price
Stabilization Fund")
CCI           -  Credit of Ivory Coast ("Credit de la Cote
d'Ivoire")
CEAO          -  West African Economic Community ("Communaute
Economique des Pays de l'Afrique de l'Ouest")
DFC           -  Development Finnace Company
EIB           - European Investment Bank
SME           -  Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
UMOA          - West African Monetary Union ("Union
Monetaire Ouest Africaine")
1J The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc at the rate of IFF to
CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OMCIIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT  UMIHARY
1. Borrower:                        The Republic of Ivory Coast
2. Financial Intermediaries:        Co_mercial and specialized banks customarily
involved in industrial lending.
3. Beneficiaries:                  Manufacturing enterprises.
4.  Amount:                         US$30 million equivalent.
5. Terms:                           Interest at the standard variable rate
-    plus standard commitment and front-end
fees. Amortization over 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
6. Project Description:             In support of a program of major industrial
policy reforms, which the Government has
begun to implement in the framework of the
Bank's Second Structural Adjustment Loan to
the Ivory Coast, the proposed project
provides a line of credit and a package of
technical assistance services aimed at
facilitating the adjustment of potentially
viable existing enterprises to the reformed
policy environment. As a second priority,
the project would support new industrial
investments provided they present high
economic and financial rates of return. It
would also assist the development of Ivorian'
manufactured exports to countries outside the
West African Economic Community. Finally, as
a departure from the Bank's previous approach
in the Ivory Coast of lending through a
single DFC, the line of credit under this
project would be made available to all sound
banking institutions customarily involved in
industrial lending, subject to their meeting
certain minimum creditworthiness
requirements.
IThi documnt hs a resicted disbufion and may be used by ecpiens only in the peformance of
tir oiil duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disksd without World Dank authorization.



7.  Onlending Terms:               The line of credit of US$28.5 million
equivalent would be onlent to participating
banks through the Central Bank at the
prevailing variable Bank rate. Subloans by
participating banks to beneficiary
enterprises would also be at a variable rate
equal to the Bank rate plus SZ p.a., of which
3% p.a. would represent the authorized spread
to the banks and 2Z would constitute a fee,
accruing to the Government for its assumption
of the exchange risk. Maturities of subloans
would range from 2 to 15 years inclusive of
grace periods of 1 to 3 years. The balance
of US$1.5 million would finance technical
assistance services to the Ministry of
Industry, the Central Bank and the banking
system.
8.  Estimated Costs:                 Local             Foreign           Total
US$ Million equivalent
Subproject Investments           19.00              28.50            47.50
Technical Assistance
of which:
Industrial Advisory Unit        0.40              0.60              1.00
Advisor to the Central Bank     0.10               0.15             0.25
Consultancy Services to Banks   0.02              0.08              0.10
Studies                         0.05              0.20              0.25
Contingencies                    -                0.15              0.15
TOTAL                            19.57              29.68            49.25
9. Financing Plan
IBRD                              0.32              29.68            30.00
Government                        0.20                -               0.20
Central Bank                      0.05                                0.05
Subproject Sponsors              19.00                -              19.00
TOTAL                            19.57              29.68            49.25
10. Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year          1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
-   - US$ Million equivalent
Annual                    1.35   5.40   7.80   6.60   4.80   2.16   1.89
Cumulative                1.35   6.75  14.55  21.15  25.95  28.11  30.00



- iii -
11. Benefits and Risks:            Major benefits of the project would be to
(i) facilitate the implementation, at the
enterprise level, of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program; (ii) provide
needed term resources and technical
assistance for the adjustment, through
restructuring, rehabilitation and/or
expansion, of pcotentially viable enterprises
affected by the ongoing policy reform; (iii)
strerethen the capacity for development
lending in a larger number of financial
institutions, including the commercial banks;
(iv) assist the development of manufactured
exports to nontraditional markets; and (v)
initiate discussions with the Government and
BCEAO - the regional Central Bank - on some
key issues in the financial sector. The two
major risks faced by the project stem from
the relative unfamiliarity of the Central and
the participating banks with IBRD
requirements for subproject appraisal and
processing, and some uncertainty concerning
the pace at which loan demand for
restructuring investments would materialize,
both of which could delay project
implementation. The project seeks to
minimize these risks by including advisory
services to the banks and to the enterprises.
12. Economic Rate of Return:       A minimum ERR of 15% required for all
subprojects
13. Staff Appraisal Report:        No. 5489-IVC
14. Map:                           IBRD No. 14699 R 3
WAPID
June 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Republic of Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$30 million, to help finance
an Industrial Finance and Development Project. The proposed loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at the standard
variable rate. The European Investment Bank is considering confinancing the
project with a loan of US$13.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast: A Basic Economic Report" was
circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977 and published under the title
"The Challenge of Success" in 1978. The assessment of the country's economic
prospects has been periodtcally updated in subsequent President's Reports on
specific projects. It has been presented in greater detail in the "'Note on the
Economic Situation in the Ivory Coast" attached as Annex IV to the President's
Report on the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (P-3613-IVC) of June 9, 1983.
The paragraphs below incorporate the principal findings of a recent Bank
economic mission. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        During the first two decades after independence in 1960, the Ivory
Coast experienced an average 7% per annum GNP growth rate, one of the most rapid
in the world for a non-oil exporting country. As a result, GDP per capita
reached US$1,150 in 1980, the second highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. This
achievement has been all the more remarkable as the country has no important
mineral resource or other special natural endowment. Growth performance has
been based mainly on the efficient development of agriculture and a productive
use of foreign factors of production, capital as well as labor, -ithin a -
remarkably stable political environment, an open economic framework, and a wide
scope for private initiative supported by pragmatic public policies. Despite
important diversification efforts, the country has remained highly vulnerable to
variations in the international environment. Foreign trade accounts for more
than 60% of GDP and the three main agricultural products, coffee, cocoa and
timber, still represent about 50% of exports of goods compared with 85Z in 1960.
1/  This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Second Highway Sector P:ogram approved by the Board on June 11, 1985.



-2-
The benefits of growth were also unevenly distributed as the more limited
potential of the north led to lagging income growth in this region, despite
impressive gains in selected crops such as cotton. Through 1975, fluctuations
in the external terms of trade were not large. The first major increase in oil
prices was temporarily offset by favorable export prices. The effects of
moderate external shocks were also in large part countered, internally by a
price stabilization mechanism for the main agricultural products and,
externally, through membership in the West African Monetary Union which ensures,
inter alia, unlimited free convertibility of the currency through a cooperation
agreement with France.
4.        Present economic and financial stringencies stem largely from the
difficulties the.country faced in adapting to the sharp adverse changes which
occurred in the world economy after an export boom had led to a degree of
financial imprudence. Spurred by high coffee and cocoa prices, which led to an
80 improvement in the terms of trade between 1975 and 1977 and to surpluses in
the stabilization fund (CAISSTAB) representing more than 101 of GDP in 1977, the
Government launched an overly ambitious public investment program which rose to
over 25Z of GDP in 1978, some 40Z of which was financed by external borrowings.
The Government maintained the public investment effort at some 20% of GDP
between 1978 and 1980, in spite of declining coffee and cocoa prices and the
resulting 30% deterioration in terms of trade during this period. However, this
program did not generate sustained economic growth, as public investment had
been increasingly oriented toward high-cost and excessive scale operations in
sectors with long payoff periods, such as education and transport. Marginal
returns on investment in directly productive sectors began to drop off as most
obvious comparative advantages had heen exploited. These excessive investments,
followed by a decline in export earnings and a contraction of Government
revenue, led to a severe financial crisis in 1980. While GDP was still growing
at 7.7Z, fueled by still mounting public expenditures, the public sector
financial gap grew to 12.7Z of GDP in 1980 while the balance of payments current
account deficit reached 16.7% of GDP.
Recent Economic Developments (1981-1983)
5.        The continuing adverse prospects for coffee and cocoa prices, the high
cost of foreign borrowings and the worldwide recession led the Government to
launch, at the end of 1980, a stringent financial recovery plan coupled with -a
longer term structural adjustment program. The financial program aimed at
restoring internal and external equilibrium, consisted of a series of budgetary
and monetary measures to contain credit expansion, increase government revenue,
reverse the upward trend of current expenditures, and restrain the investment
program while restricting external borrowings and improving the external debt
profile. This program was supported during the 1981-1983 period by a SDR 484.5
million (US$514 million at 1983 SDR/US$ exchange rate) Extended Fund Facility
from the IMF. The first phase of the structural adjustment program called for
wide-ranging reforms in planning and programming, institutions, and incentives.
Public investment was curtailed and redirected toward productive projects;
public enterprises, particularly in agriculture, were reorganized to make them
more efficient, and the price, subsidy and tariff systems were progressively
overhauled to restore the growth of output in both agriculture and industry.



3
The Bank made a US$150.0 million equivalent loan in December 1981 in support of
this first phase of the structural adjustment program.
6.        Between 1980 and 1983 the Government succeeded in reducing the public
sector and current account deficits despite four unfavorable factors beyond the
authorities' control. First, the terms of trade declined by a further 14%
during this period and were, in 1983, some 40% lower tnan in 1977. Second, the
world recession has proven to be deeper and longer than was originally expected.
reducing the demand for Ivory Coast's exports, while higher interest rates
increased the debt service burden. Third, the development of domestic oil
production was not as rapid as previously expected as it reached a level of only
1.1 million tons a year in 1983. Finally, rainfall was far below average in
1983.
7.        The first objective of the financial recovery program had been to
reduce the public sector deficit, which is at the root of present external
imbalances. This deficit declined from 12.7% of GDP in 1980 to 10.9Z in 1983,
before taking into account debt amortization. Under the program, the trend of
rapid expansion of current expenditure has been substantially slowed;
implementation of a strict recruitment and wage policy, cuts in direct and
indirect consumer subsidies, and improved financial control of parastatals
enabled the Government to reduce the current budget by about 2% in real terms;
capital expenditures have been curtailed by more than 25% in real terms during
this period by cancelling or postponing expensive non-priority projects.
8.        The balance of payments current account deficit declined from 16.7% of
GDP in 1980 to 13.8% in 1983. Despite the deterioration in the terms of trade,
the trade surplus increased from 5.0% to 9.52 of GDP. This was mainly due to a
reduction of imports, which declined from 41.2% to 36.22 of GDP following the
slowdown of the economy and the development of local oil production. The
decline by about one-fourth in the real effective exchange rate during this
period was also an important factor in the improvement of Lhe trade account in
the balance of payments. However, the rapid rise of interest payments on public
debt, which more than tripled in CFAF terms from 1980 to 1983 and accounted for
8.1% of GDP in 1983, reduced the impact of this improvement on the current
account. The debt service ratio rose from 33.4% in 1980 to 36.8Z in 1983
because of high interest rates, slow growth in export receipts, and the large
increase in foreign borrowing required to finance the public sector deficit.
During the same period the external outstanding debt increased from 45% to 80Z
of GDP.
9.        These budgetary and monetary policies have contributed to a marked
slowdown in the economy. For the first time since 1960, the country experienced
a decline in national income. GDP in real terms declined by 8.1Z between 1980
and 1983 compared with a 6.1% average annual increase during the four previous
years. This represents a 20% decline per capita over these three years to about
US$720 per capita in 1983. The secondary sector has been the most severely hit
by the recession with value added falling by 20.0% in the aggregate during this
period and by more than 50% in the case of the construction and public works
subsector which depends heavily on public investment. Inflation, measured by
the consumer price index, was about 11.3%, the average since 1980, the impact of



-4-
the activity slowdown and the restrictive monetary policy being counterbalanced
by the increase in import prices and the effect of fiscal measures.
The Present Economic Situation
10.       The economic and finanrial situation of the Ivory Coast further
deteriorated in the second half of 1983 as a consequence of the worst climatic
conditions since independence and a sharp reduction in foreign borrowing. The
impact of the 1983 drought and related bush fires is estimated to account for a
4Z decline in GDP. Coffee production fell by two-thirds compared with its
1982/83 level while the reduction in electricity supply by about 302 following
the drying up of the reservoirs induced the implementation of a severe
load-shedding plan. Hydroelectric plants generated about 85Z of electricity in
previous years, but only about 60Z in 1983. The effect of the drought on the
energy sector alone increased the public sector and balance of payments deficits
by the equivalent of 1.5Z of GDP. In the second half of 1983, public arrears
increased rapidly, and represented 10.9% of GDP at the end of the year. In
order to avoid a liquidity crisis the Ivorian authorities decided to intensify
their financial recovery and economic adjustment programs and to request a
rescheduling of public external debt service payments due in the 25 month period
starting December 1, 1983. Members of the Paris Club agreed to reschedule 100I
of principal and 502 of interest payments falling due until the end of 1984 and
in June, 1985 agreed to reschedule all of the principal and balf of the interest
payments due in 1985. Private creditors of the London Club rescheduled 10OZ of
the principal due during the 13 months period ending December 31, 1984 and
subsequently agreed to reschedule 90% of the principal due in 1985. These
creditors also agreed, and for the first time in Sub-Saharan Africa, to make a
US$120 million loan for balance of payments support, which has been fully
disbursed.
11.      A much intensified financial recovery program was implemented in 1984.
It aimed at avoiding further deterioration in Ivory Coast's external
creditworthiness and at sharply reducing external and internal imbalances. It
was supported by the IMF with a SDR 82.75 million one-year stand-by agreement.
This program aimed to reduce the public sector deficit from 10.4% to 4Z of GDP
and the current account deficit from 13.1% to 7% of GDP. Government payment
arrears were to be cut by 60% and, after taking into account the impact of the
debt rescheduling, the overall balance of pryments was expected to be in
equilibrium. To achieve these objective a series of tough stabilization
measures were implemented. These include a freeze on Government's current
expenditures in nominal terms, a further cut in public investment, large
increases in electricity and railroad tariffs, in prices of petroleum products
and water charges, a reduction in civil service enrollments and technical
assistance, and a reform in the scholarship policy. Further improvement in the
financial situation of the public sector should also stem from a large increase
in CAISSTAB receipts resulting from firm world prices for coffee and cocoa and
from drawing on stocks accumulated in previous years.
Medium- and Long-term ELonomic Prospects
12.      Over the remainder of the decade, the evolution of the Ivory Coast
economy will stay critically dependent on public finance and balance of payments



-5-
constraints. As is typical in a country undergoing a rescheduling of its
external debt, the challenge will be to maintain sufficient monetary and fiscal
discipline and tc generate the foreign exchange required to withstand the
transition to the post-rescheduling period, when deferred debt service payments
will have to be met. This transition period will be difficult as payments on
external debt are projected to increase sharply following two years of
rescheduling in 1984 and 1985, and as the necessary increase in production of
tradeables for exports and for efficient import substitution is likely to
materialize only gradually over the rest of the decade. The necessary
continuation of tight fiscal and monetary policies along with substantial
improvements in the quality of the public investment program and further
implementation of agricultural and industrial incentive reforms, are expected to
enable a resumption of GDP growth in real terms at an average annual rate of
3.7Z over the 1985-95 period.
13.       The public sector deficit is expected to decline in 1985.
Nevertheless, conditions are expected to remain very tight in the Ivory Coast
for a number of years. Continued monetary and fiscal discipline and
intensification of the structural adjustment program will be required if the
stabilization is to be consolidated and the conditions for renewed growth are to
be reestablished. The Bank is closely monitoring economic developments in the
Ivory Coast and is currently preparing a new economic report on the country.
14.       Of the US$5,143 million external public debt disbursed at the end of
1982, 15.2Z were provided bilaterally by governments, 20.6Z by international aid
agencies (69.9Z of which by the Bank Group), 55.6% by private banks and bond
issues, while 8.6Z came in the form of suppliers credit. About 75% of the total
capital not supplied by international aid agencies came from four channels:
internationally syndicated loans (33.3%), France (29.1%), USA (11%) and Lebanon
(5.6Z). France and the European Community Countries remain the principal
sources of development assistance in grant form, accounting for about 1% of the
flow of foreign assistance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST 2/
15.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in Ivory Coast started, lending
has expanded rapidly and now includes fifty operations totalling
US$1,432.4 million, including US$14 million from the Third Window and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Of these, eighteen have been for agriculture,
supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut development, and rural
development in the North-East Savannah and Center-West regions. There were six
road projects and two highway sector loans. The remaining twenty-four loans
were for education, telecommunications, Abid;an sewerage and drainage system,
water supply, urban development, petroleum exploration and development, power
distribution, tourism development, small and medium-scale enterprises, a
2/   Ibid.



- 6 -
zeg3onal cement project, a regional railway project and, most recently, for
structural adjustment and related technical assistance. IFC has supported
te-:tile, fertilizers, flour milling, development banking, and agricultural
plantation operations in the country. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Group operations. In general, implementation of Bank projects has been
satisfactory and has lmproved substantially over the past five years. The
disbursement ratio has risen from 15.2Z in 1977 to 33.1X in 1983. Ivory Coast
disbursement ratio of 55.0X for 1984 compares very favorably with the Bank-wide
average of 24.9Z and with ratios for comparable countries such as Tunisia
(14.9X), Cameroon (21.9%) and Kenya (34.6%) for the same year.
16.       The Bank's first two structural adjustment loans approved in FY1982
and FY1984, respectively, supported the Government's program of firm measures to
adjust the economy to the deteriorating international environment and to lay the
basis for future growth. They reflect the close and frank dialogue on economic
policy between the Bank and the Ivory Coast. Implementation of the initial
stages of the structural adjustment program has led to the development of
longer-term rehabilitation and reform programs for several subsectors and key
public enterprises, which are now at the project preparation stage. The
external environment in which the Ivory Coast has pursued its initial adjustment
efforts since 1981 has been much less favorable than was anticipated. The
economy is likely to remain vulnerable to public finance and balance of payments
constraints and to require sustained adjustment efforts. A third phase of the
Government's continuing program of structural change is being prepared.
17.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the
Government's policy of crop diversification, promotion of exports, and increased
emphasis on developing smallholder production. The most recent projects
approved by the Board are a rubber project and two rural development projects
for the North-East and Center-West.  The Technical Assistance project, approved
together with SAL I, provides much of the technical manpower needed for policy
reorientation and implementation of reforms in this sector. In the near future,
the Bank is considering assisting the Government in rehabilitating the sugar
subsector, providing further assistance to the oil-palm and rubber subsectors,
as well as for improved systems of extension and research. Thus far, the Bank
Group has financed six road projects totalling US$123.3 million, a railway
project, and two highway sector operations; the $110 million Second Highway
Sector Project approved in June 1985 helps to finance the country's sector
investment program through 1988.
18.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts to
modernize the education system, in particular at the primary, secondary and
vocational levels, through three education projects and a fourth, focusing on
rehabilitation and cost reduction, is under preparation. A first health
project, aimed at expanding nurse training in the country, is also being
prepared. The two Abidjan sewerage and drainage projects, approved in FY1975
and FY1978, cover the first phases of a ten-year Government program to improve
sanitation in Abidjan. The two urban development projects approved in FY1977
and FY1982 were aimed at helping to meet some of Abidjan's low-income housing
and transport needs and at assisting the Government in carrying out its regional
development policy of shifting rapid urban growth from the capital city to
regional ceaters. These actions have been complemented by two water supply



-7-
projects. In the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July 1980
to finance power distribution facilities and technical assistance, and a
Petroleum Exploration and Development Project for offshore hydrocarbons was
approved in June 1982. A project to develop offshore gas reserves is also being
studied.
19.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management in the
rivate sector of the Ivorian economy, the Gover.ment is placing high priority
on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy, the Bank
extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises in FY1976, which
was followed by an artisans and small- and medium-scale enterprise project in
March 1979. In parallel, the Bank has approved one loan for larger industries
and two lines of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the
tourism sector. In June 1976, the Bank also extended a loan to the Ivory Coast
in support of the CIMAO project, the clinker production plant located in Togo
and owned jointly by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo.
20.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of less than US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$164.8 million annually in the FY1980-84 period. The average
annual lending rate is expected to continue to grow over the next few years.
The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt is expected to rise
from the present 17.4% to about 26% in the first half of the next decade; its
share of total debt service is expected to rise from 15.3% at present to about
17.5% by 1990.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Industrial Policies, Performance and Structure
21.       Despite its emphasis on agriculture, the Ivorian Government has always
given a high priority to industry in its economic development policies. It has
not, however, invested heavily itself, but has relied extensively on private
initiative (mainly foreign) and on various instruments including tariffs, Import
regulations, fiscal and financial incentives and a generous investment code to
foster growth in the sector. As a result of these policies, and of the
political stability which has characterized the country, the industrial sector
has been one of the most dynamic elements in the Ivorian economy since
independence in 1960. Growing at an average rate of close to 10% per annum, it
accounted for one-fifth of CDP in 1980. The share of industry in total
merchandise exports increased steadily from 23% in 1970 to almost 50% in 1983.
Within the industrial sector, starting from a very small base, manufacturing
activity grew at an average rate of close to 13% per annum and by 1981 accounted
for almost 12% of GDP, up from 4% in 1960. Manufacturing currently accounts for
some 24% of total employment in the formal sector and comprises more than 700
firms covering a broad spectrum of activities. Processed foods, wood products,
textiles and vegetable oils remain the most important manufactured products.
accounting for 72% of sectoral value added in 1983. Ivorian industry is heavily
concentrated in and around Abidjan, accounting for over half of industrial
output and employment. The size distribution of enterprises is quite skewed;



- ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     8
45 enterprises (6Z of the total number) account for about 70X of output, 56Z of
employment and 871 of total investments in the sector. Linkages among
enterprises are limited, particularly between small and large firms. Majority
ownership in most firms is private with over one-third of the total equity in
industry owned by foreigners, to a large extent by French nationals.
22.       After the sustained period of rapid growth through the 1970s, the
industrial sector in Ivory Coast in recent years has lost much of its previous
dynamism and is now faced with declining output and investment and considerable
marketing and financial difficulties. While the worldwide recession and the
drastic stabilization program undertaken by the Government since 1980 have been
major contributing factors, tight bank credit and growing distortions in the
incentives system have also been at the root of this problem. The initial phase
of industrialization was based on the continuous expansion of the domestic
market and on the development of West African Economic Community (CEAO) regional
markets. It took place in the context of a relatively simple system of
incentives, including a generous Investment Code and a moderate tariff schedule
which applied fairly uniform protection across various branches, with little
recourse to quantitative import restrictions. Increasing wage costs which
followed the rapid growth of the 1960s and the completion of the easiest phase
of Import substitution led to demands for somewhat higher protection in the
early ln' Q- whizh was granted through a reform of the Customs Code in 1973. The
acceleration of domestic inflation in 1975 and the overvaluation of the CFA
franc which folloved the coffee and cocoa boom of 1976-77, further eroded the
competitiveness of Ivorian enterprises and led to increased protection through
recourse to quaniitative restrictions.
23.       While these protective policies permitted growth in the sector to be
maintained during the boom years, they also planted the seeds for the sector's
Inability to cope with the current lean years. Indeed, by introducing a high
degree of distortion in incentives across the industrial branches, they
encouraged the development of inefficient activities which are unable to compete
in non-protected markets. By encouraging sales on the domestic market and
discriminating against exports, they also compromised the growth potential of
the industrial sector at a time when the most obvious opportunities for exports
within the protected CEAO markets had already been exploited and sales to
non-regional markets were becoming crucial to sustain the expansion of the
industrial base and to generate foreign exchange earnings required to balance-
the country's external financial position. The distorted system of incentives
also hampered the development of linkages within the sector. Provisions such as
the high degree of tariff escalation according to the degree of processing and
generous tariff exemptions on intermediate inputs accorded to firms under the
investment code encouraged investment in consumer goods industries but
discouraged local production of intermediate goods. Finally, the institutional
support provided by the Government to promote industry, in particular small and
medium scale industry, proved to be largely ineffective, due in part to poor
management and lack of coordination among the various public entities.
The Policy Reform   -
24.       In reponse to the deterioration of industrial performance, the
Government, in the framework of its Structural Adjustment Program, decided to



-9-
carry out the first stages of a comprehensive reform of its system of industrial
incentives. The main objective of the reform is to restore the conditions of
growth in the sector over the medium term by providing a coherent rakcentive
system that will give equal encouragement to production for both local and
export markets, encourage integration of local industry, and foster greater
efficiency and productivity in the sector. With one exception (para. 25), the
bulk of the reforms to be implemented in the framework of the Interim Program
became effective in March 1985.
25.       In order to improve the competitiveness of the industrial sector and
to promote intra-sectoral linkages, the Government has carried out a
comprehensive rev±sion of the tariff system and of quantitative import
restrictions. Effective tariff protection rates applying to most branches of
industry (over 75% of industrial value added) and, within each branch, to
different levels of processing, have been harmonized around a target level of
40%, and quantitative restrictions are being replaced by temporary import
surcharges, which will decline over time and will be eliminated after five
years. The bias against exports, inherent in the previous system of incentives,
is being substantially eliminated by the introduction of an across-the-board
subsidy on value added for manufactured exports to countries outside the West
African Economic Community. Due to delays in setting up the administration of
the subsidy, this measure is, however, not yet effective. Implementation of the
subsidy would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01
of the draft Loan Agreement). The Investment Code has been revised to encourage
the creation of new industrial enterprises, particularly in regions away from
Abidjan, and to eliminate the discrimination against local suppliers of
intermediate inputs and against small and medium scale enterprises. In
particular, the provision allowing priority firms to import intermediate inputs
duty-free has been abolished. In its place, a subsidy is being offered based on
Ivorian value added and on location. The revision of domestic taxation aims at
removing the distortions remaining in the present tax system, in particular
through a progressive generalization of the value added tax system to cover the
first processing of agricultural raw materials, and through the provision of
adequate fiscal incentives for new firms which do not apply for priority
treatment under the Investment Code.
26.       On the institutional front, apart from establishing a separate
Ministry of Industry to act as the focal point for all policies affecting the-
sector, the Government has taken steps to reform the institutions in charge of
Industrial Promotion. CAPEN, the ineffective small and medium scale enterprise
(SME) promotion agency, is being restructured and a new non-banking financial
entity is being established to manage the Government's SHE Participation and
Credit Guarantee Funds. In contrast to past policy, both these institutions are
expected to be partly owned and managed by the private sector. Likewise, in
collaboration with the private sector, the Government is also in the process of
setting up an Industrial Promotion Bureau, specifically aimed at promoting
private foreign investment in the country. Finally, an Industrial Project Unit
has been established in the Ministry of Industry to appraise the economic
soundness of all new large industrial investments undertaken in the country, as
well as those applying for investment code benefits.



- 10 -
Prospects
27.       Despite current difficulties in the sector, the potential for further
rapid industrialization in the Ivory Coast remains promising. The industrial
sector is still relatively small and as yet undiversified, hence opportunities
for linkages are good; the country's agricultural base is strong and rapidly
diversifying, thus offering a good potential for further investment in
agro-processing activities; a relatively high level of per capita income and a
growing population constitute an expanding domestic market; infrastructure
facilities in the country are excellent; and the Government's attitude towards
private initiative remains positive. Finally, the country has a stable
political climate and an essentially market-oriented economy which are important
consideratilons for new, particularly foreign, investment in the sector.
28.       The policy reform described above represents a major step in
alleviating structural constraints which have increasingly inhibited realization
of this potential in recent years. By equalizing incentives for exports with
those for sales on the domestic market and by aligning producer costs and prices
more closely with world prices, the reform will significantly correct the
import-substitution bias of past policies and should encourage investments and
output in areas of activity where Ivory Coast has an existing or potential
comparative advantage. These changes in the level and structure of incentives
should lead, in the medium term, to the development of a more efficient, dynamic
and competitive Ivorian industrial sector. But in the shorter term, they will
also necessitate a difficult restructuring effort on the part of a number of
firms, as these will need to adapt their product-mix, cost structure and
production process to the new, more liberal policy environment. Given the
essentially open nature of the Ivorian economy, characterized by the
predominantly private ownership of enterprises in the sector and the absence of
any significant distortion caused by regulations such as price controls, this
restructuring will to a large extent come through market forces rather than
through Government intervention.
29.       A review of the foul maur subeectors (textiles, wood, agro-processing
and electro-mechanical industriesi carried out by the Bank and the Government in
the context of this project has indicated that this policy-induced restructuring
will require significant investments, for the financing of which appropriate
domestic resources are currently in short supply. Indeed, prevailing depressed
economic conditions have significantly eroded the cash-flow positions of
numerous firms, including, in extreme cases, their equity. Nost firms in the
sector have thus far managed to survive the crisis, mostly by increasing their
short term indebtedness to the banking system. However, bank credits have
become increasingly difficult to obtain due to the scarcity of loanable
resources, and indications are that unless external long-term resources are made
available to the banking system, a wnmber of firms, which otherwise would be
viable, may not be able to secure adequate financing for undertaking the
restructuring investments that would be necessary to ensure their survival. In
addition to financial resources, there appears also a need for assistance to the
sector to help the affected firms identify and undertake steps needed to adjust
to the reformed, more open and competitive environment. While the few large,
essentially foreign-owned firms are likely to obtain the guidance required for
this purpose from their parent companies, most locally based firms would not



- 11 -
have easy access to such advice. The proposed project has been designed to
respond to these needs and, in addition to providing financial assistance, it
will make advisory services available to the enterprises to facilitate and speed
up the implementation of their restructuring investments.
Policies and Institutions in the Financial Sector
30.       Ivory Coast is a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA),
together with six other francophone countries (Benin, Burkina, Mali, Niger,
Senegal and Togo). The Union shares a common currency (CFA Franc) fully
guaranteed by France and freely convertible into the French Franc at a fixed
parity, a common Central Bank (BCEAO) and common credit and monetary policies.
BCEAO is administered by a Governor and a Board of Directors representing each
member state and France. The headquarters of BCEAO are located in Dakar,
Senegal with a national branch and a national credit committee in each member
country. BCEAO possesses extensive regulatory powers over the financial sector
of member countries. It formulates and operates the monetary policy of the
Union; provides loans and discounts to the governments and the financial
institutions; exercises wide powers to supervise, inspect and discipline these
institutions; sets the interest rate structure; monitors credit allocation; and
controls credit growth. Until 1975, credit was controlled quantitatively
through BCEAO's rediscount system, which was the principal source of liquidity
for the banks in UMOA. Since then, several major reforms have been introduced
in the system to, inter alia, curtail the overwhelming dependence of the
financial institutions on the Central Bank, ensure better utilization of the
available resources within UMOA and encourage financing of certain sectors
considered as priority areas. Rediscounting accommodations are now no longer
automatic but determined on the basis of the applicant banks' liquidity; total
refinancing from the Central Bank is limited to 35% of an individual bank's
portfolio (excluding seasonal agriculture credits) and sectoral coefficients
have been introduced to direct a minimum portion of bank credits towards
priority sectors. Other reforms include a policy of somewhat more frequent
adjustments to the rediscount rate, creation of a regional money market and the
setting-up of a prior approval procedure for all loans in excess of a
predetermined amount to better monitor credit growth and allocation. Finally.
with a view to providing a broader base for development financing, the previous
differentiation between commercial and development banks has been eliminated,
and the Central Bank is authorized to rediscount loans with maturities of up to
ten years, up from seven years previously.
31.       Concomitant with the above, several qualitative and quantitative
measures have been introduced to concrol and monitor the activities of the
financial institutions. These measures permit the Central Bank to, inter alia,
set minimum share capital and reserve requirements, institute minimum liquidity,
maximum equity participation and debt equity ratios, as well as set ceilings for
cre"-'t expansion and rediscounting by individual institutions. Banking
institutions are currently required to cover at least 75% of sight liabilities
by short term assets, of which at least 3% have to be cash holdings, and to
maintain a net equity of no less than 6% of total loans.



- 12 -
32.       All lending rates in UNMOA countries are regulated by the BCEAO.  They
are uniform across the countries in the Union and are set in reference to
"normal" and "preferential" rediscount rates of the Central Bank with variable
maximum allowable spreads between the subsectors. Current lending rates, IL
effect since the last adjustment in April 1983, range from 9 to 11X for priority
sectors (seasonal crop financing, national SWEs and low-cost housing), and from
11 to 15.5Z for all others, including industry. These rates are applicable to
all loans, irrespective of the term or the origin of resources and do not
include a service tax (TPS), equal to 25% of the base cost, which is applied on
all loans, thus bringing the final effective cost of borrowings to close to 15X
for preferential activities and to 19X for all others. In light of the
prevailing and projected level of inflation in Ivory Coast, as measured by the
GDP deflator (11.5Z in 1984, declining to around 5% in the medium-term), these
rates are substantially positive in real terms. Minimum interest paid on
savings and deposits varies from 3.5Z to 9.5Z depending upon the amount and the
term of the deposits. Interest on large institutional deposits is negotiable
but rarely exceeds the money market deposit rate, currently about 11%.
33.       With a rapid growth in the number of institutions over the past
decade, Ivory Coast today has one of the most developed and sophisticated
financial systems in Sub-Saharan Africa. This system comprises 13 commercial
banks (of which five are the branches of foreign banks), six specialized banks
(the former development banks) and nine non-banking finance companies. In
addition, there is a public institution, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA),
which manages the public debt, holds and manages public deposits and mobilizes
local resources through tax free bond issues. There is also a Central
Bank-managed regional money market which permits financial institutions to place
their excess liquidity and to satisfy their short-term resource requirements.
Finally, close to a dozen insurance companies operate in Ivory Coast, in
addition to a stock exchange which trades in a limited number of securities.
34.       At the center of the financial system are the commercial banks which,
as of end June 1984, commanded about four-fifths of both credits and deposits in
the system. Despite the existence of specialized ex-development banks,
commercial banks have always played an important role in financing the various
productive sectors of the economy. They have also been a major source of both
working capital and investment finance to industry.  This is due in large part
to policies of the Central Bank which have encouraged lending to priority
sectors including industry, by providing generous rediscounting facilities and
more recently by instituting minimrm sectoral lending ratios. Prior to the 1975
reforms (para. 30) rediscounting from the Central Bank, both for short and
medium term credits, was available on a quasi automatic basis, thus providing a
strong incentive to commercial banks to extend medium term loans. Subsequent
elimination of this automatic rediscounting privilege could have deterred the
commercial banks from increasing their term lending, especially since within the
prevailing sectoral ratios a term breakdown is not imposed. However, sustained
by a large flow of deposits, principally from state companies, commercial banks
continued to expand their term credits through the late 1970s and early 1980s.
Since then, however, declining deposits and tight rediscount facilities,
reflecting depressed economic conditions, have constrained their lending
ability, particularly with respect to term credits. Commercial banks remain
nevertheless a major source of such financing and accounted for almost 63% of



- 13 -
total outstanding term credit to the economy at end June 1984. Term credits by
the commercial banks, however, rarely carry maturities of over seven years and
are mostly directed towards well-established corporate borrowers.
35.       Though the specialized banks also tend to give priority to this type
of clientele, they serve the needs of lesser known emerging businesses better
and are the principal source of institutional equity finance and support to
Ivorian-owned small and medium enterprises. They have also been the principal
beneficiaries of external long term resources and thus the predominant source
for loans exceeding ten years. In an effort to compete better with commercial
banks and broaden their resource base, several specialized banks in recent years
have begun to collect public deposits and make short term credits. However, the
larger share (60X) of their activities is still term lending, the funding for
which is mainly dependent upon rediscounting from the Central Bank and external
lines of credit. The capital market in Ivory Coast, in contrast to the money
market, which has played an important role in meeting the short term placement
and liquidity requirements of the regional banking system, has not been a source
of any significant medium- or long-term finance. At most, the stock exchange
has permitted a limited growth in the share of Ivorian ownership in a few
predominantly foreign owned firms, but it has not allowed any mobilization of
long-term capital to speak of for industry. While the growth of the capital
market in the longer-term is desirable, if only to broaden equity ownership
among Ivorians, given the size of the Ivorian economy such growth is not likely
to occur quickly.
Prospects and Constraints
36.       After a relatively lengthy period of rapid development during which it
was able to meet the needs of the growing economy, the Ivorian financial system
recently encountered considerable liquidity problems. Depressed economic
conditions, coupled with the sharp decline in government revenues, led to
substantial public sector deficits and arrears, while major cutbacks in public
expenditures and shrinking domestic markets resulted in increasing difficulties
for the corporate sector to meet its debt servicing obligations to the banking
system. These adverse developments, together with declining growth in deposits,
significantly curtailed the lending ability of the banking system and exerted
considerable pressure on its liquidity and profitability positions. Two of the
major commercial banks have had to increase their share capital, with the help
of foreign shareholders, while one has undergone a major management
restructuring. Likewise, following a review of specialized institutions by the
Bank in April 1984, one such institution (BIDI) has undergone a major financial
and management restructuring while another one, specializing in lending to SMEs
(CCI), will probably need to be restructured.
37.       The tight liquidity position of the banking system is clearly
reflected by the share of the total credit outstanding refinanced by the Central
Bank, which rose from an average of about 20X in the seventies and 30% in 1980
to 37% as of June 30, 1984. To meet their growing liquidity requirements, a
number of commercial banks had increasing recourse to their foreign parent
banks, but funds from this source are now reportedly close to exhaustion.
Likewise, as the rediscount ceiling is being reached for the banking system as a
whole, Central Bank financing has also now become very tight. While the



- 14 -
liquidity crisis appears to have eased in recent months on account of a good
crop year, and can be expected to keep on improving further in the short-term as
a result of repayment of Government arrears, initiated under the ongoing standby
arrangement with the IMF and the proposed Bank loan for this project, some
changes in the prevailing policies would be needed in the medium-term to make
the financial system more responsive to the needs of the economy and to reduce
its excessive dependence upon the Central Bank.
38.       In the course of itB review of the financial sector in March and
November 1984, the Bank has identified a number of such changes, discussions on
some of which have already been initiated with the Government in the context of
this project. The approval of BCEAO, the regional Central Bank is required,
however, for the most part before they can be implemented in the Ivory Coast.
These include the fixing of the level and structure of interest rates, the
application of preferential lending rates for certain activities, and the
inability of banks to pass on the foreign exchange risk to the final borrowers.
A review of the financial sector in the Union, scheduled for the second half of
FY1986, will lead to specific recommendations on these regional issues for
discussion with BCEAO. In the meantime, the possibility of initiating action on
some other issues, namely the need to eliminate or reduce the service tax on
interest payments, the need to strengthen banking inspection and supervision,
the possibility of establishing a domestic market in securities, and the need
for new mechanisms to finance exports, will be pursued in the context of the
proposed third loan in support of the Ivory Coast's Structural Adjustment
Program.
Bank Lending for Industrial Finance
39.       The Bank's involvement in industrial finance in Ivory Coast started in
1975 when a line of credit of US$5.6 million was made available to CCI for
financing of Ivorian-owned SME projects. This line was soon followed (in
October 1975) by a traditional DFC loan (US$8 million) to BIDI for financing of
medium- to large-scale industries. The Bank has since provided two more lines
of credit totaling US$ 23.9 million for tourism development (1975, 1979) and a
second SIME line of US$12.6 million (1979), all to CCI. Commitments from IFC
have totalled US$13.6 million, consisting of three operations with industrial
corporations, one with an agricultural plantation and two (equity participation)
with BIDI.
40.       The Bank's past lending strategy in the Ivory Coast was largely aimed
at the promotion and strengthening of the above two specialized banks, although
resource transfer, employment generation and promotion of Ivorian-owned SME were
also important objectives. Project Performance Audits on the first two industry
loans to CCI and BIDI concluded among other points that these objectives were
only part'ally met, and that while Bank funds resulted in assisting about 100
enterprises, including 85 SMEs, achievements with respect to institution
building have not been very satisfactory. This was partly due to management
weaknesses, but it also reflected the marginal role of these institutions in
term fiuancing to industry and their increasing emphasis on diversification of
activities to better compete with commercial banks following the Central Bank
policy reforms in 1975. Following a major restructuring, BIDI has now been



- 15 -
financially rehabilitated and a strategy for its future operations is being
prepared. At the Government's request, the Bank has agreed to assist BIDI in
this respect. The Bank is also closely monitoring developments in CCI and
following the findings of a portfolio and operations audit, currently underway,
it will assist the Government to design and implement a rehabilitation program
for this insticution.
,1.       In 1981, the Bank decided to review its operational program for the
industrial sector in the Ivory Coast and carried out a study of the sector with
a view to defining a strategy for future Bank lending to industry. This study
indicated that while the Bank's past lending to individual DFCs had achieved the
resource transfer objective, its impact on the industrial sector as a whole had
been limited and that there was now a need to address major deficiencies and
distortions in the prevailing industrial policies that were increasingly
inhibiting efficient growth in the sector. This study, together with a
financial sector review, provided the basis for an intensification, under SAL I,
of the dialogue with the Government on the key issues facing the sector. SAL IT
provided the vehicle for reaching an agreement on the content and the timetable
for implementing the Government's comprehensive program of industrial policy
reforms described earlier (para. 24 through 26). Over the coming years the Bank
will continue to support the full implementation of this program and to seek,
jointly with BCEAO and the Government, reforms in the financial sector that
would improve the efficiency of resource mobilization and allocation, and result
in strengthening the institutional performance of the banking system as a whole.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Objectives
42.       The preparation of the project was begun in 1983, in parallel with
that of the SAL II industrial policy reforms. The project was preappraised in
December 1983 and appraised in May 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington
in June 1985 with a delegation led by Mr. V. Kouame, Deputy Director, Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement. A separate report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report:
Ivory Coast - Industrial Finance and Development Project" (No. 5489-IVC) dated-
August 5, 1985 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The
main features of the loan and project are described in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III. A map of the country is attached.
43.       The project is a logical complement to the package of major industrial
policy reforms being implemented in the second phase of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program. Accordingly, its principal objectives are linked
to these reforms and consist primarily of providing financial and technical
support to ease the adjustment of potentially viable enterprises to the reformed
policy environment. Support to new industries, which are likely to emerge in
response to the modified incentives framework, would not be excluded, but,
unlike past Bank DFC operations, would have second priority. Other objectives
sought by the project are to assist the development of manufactured exports,
support further growth of term lending to industry and build up economic
appraisal capabilities within the Ivorian banking system as a whole.  The



- 16 -
onlending arrangements for the proposed project are designed with the latter
objectives in mind and consist of making funds available through the Central
Bank to the banking system as a whole, rather than through a single DFC.
Project Description
44.       In line with the above objectives, the project would consist of a loan
in the amount of US$30 million to the Ivory Coast to finance the following
components:  (i) a line of credit to finance investment and permanent working
capital of economically viable existing manufacturing enterprises in need of
restructuring, rehabilitation or expansion, as well as for new projects (US$28.5
million);  (ii) establishment, within the Ministry of Industry, of an Industrial
Advisory Services Unit to assist enterprises in undertaking the steps needed to
adjust to the Government's industrial policy reforms (US$0.8 million); (iii)
broad product identification, marketing and/or other studies to help develop
exports of wood, textile and other manufactured products (US$0.25 million);
(iv) advisory services to assist the Central Bank in administering the line of
credit (US$0.2 million); and (v) consultancy services to train the staff of the
Central and participating banks in economic analysis of subprojects (US$0.1
million).
The Line of Credit
45.       Institutional Arrangements:  As a departure from the traditional
approach of lending through a single DFC, the line of credit in this project
would be made available under an apex arrangement to all sound banking
institutions in the Ivorian financial system. The national branch of the
Central Bank in Abidjan, acting in the capacity of Executive Secretary of a Loan
Administration Committee to be set up in the context of this project, would act
as the apex institution and administer the line of credit on account of the
Government. In view of its extensive role in regulating the financial sector,
including refinancing of a significant share of both short and medium-term
industrial loans, the Central Bank is the most suitable institution to play this
role. However, since the Central Bank is not a national institution, a Loan
Administration Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Industry and including
senior officials from the Ministry of Finance, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement -
CAA (the debt servicing agency) and the Central Bank, would be established to'
review and approve subprojects, much as the Board of an institution. In its
capacity as the Executive Secretary of the Committee, the Central Bank would be
given sufficient day-to-day authority to effectively carry out the functions of
an apex institution, including the authority to receive, review and seek
additional information on all subproject applications, determine the eligibility
of both subprojects and participating banks, based upon its own creditworthiness
and/or other project related criteria and, more generally, to perform all
functions required of it with respect to monitoring the performance of
subprojects and intermediaries financed under the line of credit. The
establishment of the Loan Administration Committee and the signing of a protocol
between the Government and the Central Bank, defining the functions and
responsibilities of the latter as the Executive Secretary of the Committee, both
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be conditions of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
46.       Eligible Intermediaries:  Although in practice the line of credit is
likely to be mostly used by the four major commercial and one or two specialized
banks, all Central Bank regulated and supervised banks customarily involved in
industrial financing, which are in compliance with the Central Bank
creditworthiness criteria, would be eligible. Based on these criteria, which
are adequate to insure that only financially sound institutions are eligible,
only about ten of the nineteen banks in the system would currently qualify.
These criteria would be strictly applied by the Central Bank at the time of each
subproject submission and their observance by each bank would be reviewed
periodically by the Bank during supervision missions. This approach, rather
than the one consisting of establishing a list of eligible banks from the
outset, appears more appropriate in the current situation of the financial
sector in Ivory Coast as certain banks, which would subsequently become suitable
intermediaries for channeling the Bank funds, may not, pending their
consolidation, qualify immediately. The proposed approach would also appear to
be more conducive towards securing the widest participation of the banking
network, consistent with the prevailing UMOA policy of expanding the involvement
of both specialized and commercial banks in term lending to the priority
sectors. Finally, it would also considerably facilitate and broaden the access
to the line of credit by industrial clients of all banks.
47.       Eligible Beneficiaries:  The line of credit would be available to all
manufacturing firms subject, however, to their meeting the following criteria:
(a) their principal activities should be in one of the subsectors affected by
the policy reform; (b) they should meet the Central Bank's normal
creditworthiness requirements; (c) the restructuring programs submitted by them
are technically, financially and economically sound and clearly demonstrate that
these firms have a good potential for adjustment including the ability, after
implementing the proposed restructuring program, to generate an economic rate of
return of no less than 10% on overall investments and no less than 15% on
incremental investments to be financed under the line of credit; and (d) the
owners of these firms are able to secure any additional equity and/or short-term
debt consolidation that may be required for the firm to show (i) a debt equity
ratio of no more than 3:1, (ii) a debt servicing ratio of no less than 1.5, and
(iii) a current ratio of at least 1.2, with all the above ratios being
calculated on the basis of the firm's total debts, inclusive of those to be
incurred in the framework of the proposed restructuring program. These
requirements would also apply to new enterprises, except that in their case, a
debt equity ratio of no more than 3:2 would be authorized and the incremental
economic rate of return of at least 15% would, at the same time constitute the
overall minimum economic rate of return. This differentiation in the
eligibility criteria between the two categories of enterprises would emphasize
the priority accorded by the project to existing firms and would also ensure
high economic rates of return on all new investments.
48.       Subloan Amounts:  All subprojects, irrespective of their size,
submitted by enterprises meeting the above criteria, would be eligible for
financing under the line of credit. However, in order to ensure that the
proceeds of the credit line are spread among an adequately large number of
beneficiaries, the maximum amount of financing made available under the line of
credit to a single beneficiary would normally be limited to CFAF 800 million
(US$1.8 million). The line would finance investments in fixed assets and



- 18 -
permanent working capital subject to a ceiling of 60% of the total subproject
cost, the latter representing the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs.
49.       Subloan Processing and Administration:  In line with the Central
Bank's existing rediscount procedure, all subloans proposed to be financed under
the line of credit would be submitted by the sponsoring banks to the Central
Bank. The Central Bank would review the submissions in accordance with the
Project criteria and its existing credit regulations and would then forward
eligible applications, together with its recommendations, to the Committee for
review and approval. A copy of the eligible applications would also be sent
simultaneously to the Bank, although its formal approval would only be sought
after that of the Committee. In view of the involvement of a large number of
untested intermediaries, the first three subprojects from each intermediary
would be subject to Bank review. Thereafter, assuming satisfactory standards,
an appropriate free limit per intermediary, not exceeding CFAF 200 million
(US$445,000) per subproject, would be instituted if deemed appropriate by the
Bank. To insure smooth project implementation and efficient aduinistration of
the line of credit. a special unit within the Credit Department of the Central
Bank would be established (para. 54). All subproject submissions to the Central
Bank would be in accordance with the Bank's normal standards for IDF subprojects
and would include an economic analysis. To ensure quality and consistency in
appraisal in terms of both content and format, a project evaluation manual and a
suitable appraisal format, now being prepared with the Bank's assistance under
the Technical Assistance Loan to the Ivory Coast, would be made availablc. by the
Government to the participating banks as soon as possible, but no later than
loan effectiveness (section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition,
periodic seminars to train the staff of the Central and participating banks in
economic appraisal techniques will be funded under the project (para. 55).
Finally, a detailed circular, saLisfactory to the Bank, outlining the terms and
conditions for the use of the line of credit by the banking system would be
issued by the Government, through the Central Bank, prior to loan effectiveness
(section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Onlending Terms and Conditions:  The Bank loan, to the Government,
would be on prevailing country terms, i.e., 20 years including five years of
grace. Funds onlent under the line of credit to participating banks would be in
local currency, with maturities based on a flexible schedule corresponding to
the amortization schedules of subloans to final beneficiaries.  Subloans to
beneficiaries would range from a minimum of two to a maximum of 15 years,
inclusive of grace periods ranging from one to three years. Since the funding
made available under the line of credit would not be a part of the normal
Central Bank refinancing facility, it would not be counted as such in the
determination of individual bank rediscount ceilings. Also, unlike the Central
Bank rediscount facilities, it would be available to the banks for the full term
of the subloans. These differences between the normal Central Bank facilities
and the line of credit are expected to provide a significant incentive to the
participating banks in making term credits more easily available to their
industrial clients. Under Subsidiary Relending Agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, signing of which would be a condition of disbursement (schedule 1, para. 2
of the draft Loan Agreement), funds under the line of credit would be onlent to
participating banks at a floating rate equal to the IBRD rate plus a commitment



- 19 -
fee of 0.75% and a commission of 2% p.a., both to be passed on to final
borrowers. The commission of 2% would accrue to the Government in compensation
for its assumption of the exchange risk. In line with its current practice of
not charging any fees for various services rendered to the Government, the
Central Bank would not retain any spread for itself. Participating banks would
be authorized to pass on the float and retain a fixed spread of 3.0% thus
bringing the final cost to borrowers equal to the IBRD rate plus 5.0% p.a.
Passing on the foreign exchange risk to the final borrowers in accordance with
the Bank's normal practice is not feasible under this project on account of the
prevailing Central Bank regulations which do not allow banking institutions in
the West Africa Monetary Union to make foreign currency denominated loans.
51.       Based on the Bank's prevailing lending rate (8.82%), the rate of
interest applicable under the line of credit to final borrowers would currently
amount to about'13.8% p.a., i.e., 1.7 percentage points below the BCEAO imposed
ceiling of 15.5%. This situation could, however, change in the event that the
Bank rate exceeds 10.5% or the maximum authorized (UMOA) rate is lowered.
Should this event occur in the future, the Government has agreed that it would
take such steps as necessary to ensure continued utilization of the line of
credit in light of the prevailing credit regulations, including for instance
seeking a waiver from the monetary authorities in regard to the interest rate
ceiling.
Industrial Advisory Services Unit
52.       With a view to easing and speeding up their adjustment to the reformed
policy environment, assistance through a special unit would be provided to the
existing enterprises under the project. This unit would function essentially in
an advisory capacity, assisting industrialists in assessing the impact of the
reform on their individual firms, identifying broad areas of efficiency
improvement, reviewing the need and potential for physical and financial
restructuring, and recommending, on a preliminary basis, the type and extent of
restructuring required so as to improve the performance and profitability of the
firms. The Unit, acting in a referral capacity, would also assist
industrialists in identifying suitable consultants whose services may be
required to formulate and implement firm specific restructuring programs.
Finally, the Unit would provide assistance to industrialists, when necessary, in
preparing their loan applications for restructuring purposes so as to facilitate
securing of financing from the banks. The Unit would be located in the Ministry
of Industry and would, for its day-to-day affairs, report directly to the
Director of Cabinet of the Minister of Industry. It would be staffed by a team
of two highly qualified and widely experienced experts in the areas of
marketing, organization, financial and physical restructuring, and would also
comprise two or three suitable counterparts. The total cost of 7 man-year
advisory services, including 6 man-year services of the two resident experts and
one man-year of short-term consultancies, would be financed by the Bank loan but
all other costs, including those relating to the day-to-day administration of
the Unit and those connected with the services of the counterparts and support
staff, would be covered by the Government. Recovery of these costs from the
enterprises in the early phase does not appear feasible, as the Unit would first
need to demonstrate the quality and usefulness of its services to the



- 20 -
beneficiaries. However, the feasibility of recovering these costs would be
reviewed with the Government following two years of operations.
Studies
53.       In order to lay the groundwork for the development of Ivorian
manufactured exports to nontraditional markets, in particular of wood products,
it will be necessary to conduct some broad product identification, marketing and
other studies. Accordingly, funds for undertaking such stu,dies, including one
aimed at determining the feasibility of setting up an export credit guarantee
scheme, would be provided under the project. The Ministry of Industry, through
its Advisory Unit, would be responsible for managing these studies and for
establishing the detailed terms of reference in consultation with the
Association of Industrialists (Syndicat des Industriels). These studies would
be carried out by qualified consultants, whose services would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The findings and recommendations of these studies would make an important
contribution towards increasing the capacity utilization of a number of existing
firms which have been severely affected by the shrinkages in domestic and
traditional markets. In light of the recently established export subsidy
scheme, these studies should also assist other firms, that were until now
domestically oriented, in identifying and developing their sales on export
markets.
Advisory Services to the Central Bank
54.       In view of the need for careful review of the various restructuring
programs for which financing would be sought under the line of credit, and in
order to coordinate the onlending and subloan processing mechanisms, a special
unit within the Credit Department of the Central Bank would be established.
This Unit would provide guidance to the participating banks in selecting
eligible subprojects, coordinate the subloan processing work between the banks,
the Advisory Services Unit and the Ministry of Industry, ensure application of
uniform standards for subloan appraisals, carry out the review of subprojects
submitted under the line of credit prior to their submission to the Bank, and
ensure liaison between the World Bank and the sponsoring banks on matters
related to such subprojects. It would also supervise and coordinate
disbursements under the credit line, including collection and forwarding of the
supporting documentation, and generally carry out all tasks related to the
efficient utilization of the line of credit. Finally, it would provide such
guidance, as necessary, to the banks in adequately carrying out subproject
supervision, in particular of problem projects.  Given the relative
unfamiliarity of the Central Bank with the World Bank's lending procedures and
practices, and with a view to assisting the unit in formulating and instituting
suitable procedures for carrying out the above functions, about one and a half
years' services of a senior advisor conversant with such practices, and with
development financing in general, would be provided under the project. The
Central Bank would make available a suitable counterpart and an appropriate
number of other officers to staff the Unit. Since the Central Bank would not
receive any spread for its services, the cost of the advisor would be borne by
the Government. The Central 3ank would assume all the other administrative
costs related to the operation of the Unit.



- 21 -
Consultancy Services for Economic Analysis
55.       In line with the broad objectives of the project and to ensure that
all subprojects submitted under the line of credit include an adequate analysis
of economic costs and benefits, a program to train the staff of the Central and
the participating banks will be initiated under the project. Consisting of
periodic group seminars and assistance to individual banks in the preparation of
subproject appraisal reports, this program would be carried out by an
experienced consultant in cooperation with the Bankers' Association (Association
Professionnelle des Banques - APB) under the supervision of the Central Bank.
The proposed arrangement has been discussed with and is fully acceptable to the
banks.
Project Costs and Financing
56.       Given the predominantly private sector ownership of manufacturing
activity in Ivory Coast and pending finalization of restructuring programs by
firms affected by the policy reform, it does not appear feasible at this time to
establish a comprehensive list of all eligible investments that are likely to
seek financing under the line of credit over the next three years (the proposed
loan commitment period). However, a limited survey carried out by the Ministry
of Industry in March 1985 indicates that investments totalling some
US$150 million are currently being planned by the 51 major firms in the sector.
Term loan demand for industry, on the other hand, has averaged about
US$125 million p.a. over the past two years, despite the depressed state of the
economy and the uncertainty over the policy environment. Now that the reforms
have become effective, this level of demand can reasonably be expected to
increase in the future as the firms will begin to implement their policy-induced
restructuring investments. While the supply of locally available resources,
including substantial rediscouuting from the Central Bank, was adequate in the
past to finance this demand, it appears unlikely that under the prevailing
situation of tight liquidity and curtailed rediscount facilities the banking
system would be able to domestically secure all the resources needed to
adequately meet both the short and the term credit needs of the sector in the
future. The proposed Bank line of credit of US$28.5 million, together with a
possible similar line of US$13 million equivalent from the European Investment
Bank (of which US$3 million would be for equity participations), would make an
important contribution towards partially filling this gap.
57.       As mentioned above, while a list of specific investments to be
financed under the line of credit cannot be established at this time, the Bank
loan, on an aggregated basis, is expected to benefit manufacturing investments
totalling some US$47.5 million over the next three years. Total project costs
based on this level of investments and including the technical assistance
component (US$1.75 million) are estimated at US$49.25 million, inclusive of
taxes of US$4.9 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$29.7 million or 60% of total project costs. The Bank loan, representing 61%
of the total and 68% of net costs, would cover 100% of the foreign and about 2%
of local costs. Other local costs would be covered by the Government, the
Central Bank, and contributions from the final borrowers. A summary breakdown
of project costs and financing is provided in the Loan and Project Summary.



- 22 -
Project Implementation
58.       The Government, through a Loan Administration Committee to be
established in the framework of this loan, would be the implementing agency for
this project.  However, as described in para. 45 the Central Bank, in its
capacity as the Executive Secretary to this Committee, would, through its
special unit, act a. the apex institution for the administration of the line of
credit. It would also as such be responsible for the bank staff training
component. Responsibility for administering the Industrial Advisory Services
Unit and for commissioning the various studies financed under the project would
lie with the Ministry of Industry.  The sponsoring banks would be responsible
for supervising the subprojects financed by them and would be required to submit
to the Central Bank semi-annual progress reports on these subprojects. The
Central Bank would review these reports and make available a suumary to the
Bank. It would also submit, on a semi-annual basis, the stmmtry of financial
reports that it routinely requires from the banking institutions and, on an
annual basis, their financial statements and audit reports. The special unit
within the Central Bank would be the focal point for ensuring compliance with
the above requirements by the banks and for onward transmittal of the reports to
the Bank. Until such time as all the functions expected of the Central Bank are
satisfactorily carried out, the Bank would closely monitor the performance of
this Unit and provide assistance as appropriate.
Procurement and Disbursements
59.       Essentially, procurement ot equipment and goods under the credit
component would not be suitable for international competitive bidding, given
that loan proceeds are expected to finance predominantly restructuring
operations involving partial replacement or upgrading of equipment and spare
parts, -ith a relatively small number of operations involving new ventures.  For
the latter, maximum possible Bank financing would be limited to US$1.8 million
equivalent.  Given the expected small percentage of loan proceeds financing such
new investments, procurement ,nr both restructuring and new Investments would be
in accordance with commercial paacticas. Participating banks would be required
to ensure that the goods and services to be purchased by final borrowers are
suitable and reasonably priced, normally by ascertaining that price quotati3ns
from at least three main sources of supply have been solicited. Compliance with
this requirement by the participating banks will be monitored by the Central
Bank. Procurement of services for the technical assistance, consultancies, and
studies would be in accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
60.       Disbursements under the line of credit will be made for 100% of total
expenditures which represents the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange
cost and not more than 60X of the total subproject cost. Disbursements for
technical assistance will be made at 100% of total expenditures.  Full
documentation will be required for the technical assistance component;
statement of expenditures will be used for line of credit disbursements. In
order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account (revolving fund) of CFA
francs 1.5 billior. (equivalent zo US$3 million), representing about 3 months
expenditures, would be established in the CAA. All expenditures would be
financed out of the Special Account unless prior approval is obtained from the



- 23 -
Bank.  CAA will pay all disbursement requests of participating banks within five
days after approval of such requests by the Central Bank. Based upon the
standard Bank disbursement profile for IDF projects, the Closing Date for the
proposed loan is set at June 30, 1992.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The proposed project is expected to yield substantial benefits to
Ivory Coast. First, by making a package of financial and technical assistance
available to the enterprises, the project would considerably ease and speed-up
the implementation, at the firm level, of the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program. Second, the line of credit provided under the project would go a long
way towards making available the term resources that are currently badly needed
by banks to finance the restructuring needs of firms affected by the policy
reform. Third, the proposed onlending mechanism for channelling the funds
through the Central Bank to the banking system as a whole would not only permit
a gradual expansion in the number of intermediaries having access to Bank
funds, but also help strengthen the capacity for development lending in a larger
number of institutions, including the commercial banks. Fourth, the studies to
be undertaken in the framework of the proposed project should make an important
contribution towards assisting the firms in developing their exports to
nontraditional markets. Finally, by introducing bi-annually variable interest
rates in what has essentially been a fixed rate system, the project would
consti;ute an important first step towards bringing about other improvements in
financial policies.
62.       The project is, in an important sense, a pilot effort, designed to
chart the way for future Bank lending to Ivorian industry through the banking
system as a whole rather than through a single DFC. All such new efforts entail
certain risks. In this case, a major risk stems from the relative unfamiliarity
of the Ivorian banking system with the Bank's requirements and procedures which
could hinder smooth project implementation. The project seeks to minimize this
risk by including advisory services to the Central Bank and providing a training
program for the appraisal staff of participating banks. An additional risk is
that the loan demand for investments, particularly for policy-induced
restructuring, may not materialize as rapidly as expected, partly due to
currently depressed economic conditions and partly on account of the uncertain
response thus far to the program of reforms by a number of firms. The
Industrial Advisory Services U'nit to be set-up under the project should,
however, help alleviate this risk. Furthermore, the proposed loan amount has
been determined with this risk in mind, representing, no more than about
one-tenth of the level of term credits likely to be required by the industrial
sector over the next three years.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately to the Execu:ive Directors. Special conditions of the proposed
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 24 -
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI- RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 5, IS85



- 25 -                                   Annex I
T A I L G 3A                              Page  1 of  7
IVORY COAST           - SOCGL IDDICATORS DATJ SMQT
IVOmY COASTr                       E         RUCE  GROUPS (HIC'TED AVERMAS) /a
MOST                   (OST REWI' ISTINaT) lb
RCOAST          MIDDLE INCESM         MDDLE INCOME
1960/b     19701k KSTIAb         AFRICA S. OP SAHARA   3. AFRICA I HID EASr
A    (monTD SQ. MO
TOTAL                            322.5      322.5      322.5
ACRICULTURAL                      56.1       57.7       69.7
CW PR CAPITA (3                       ..         ..       710.0           1063-B                  * '4.9
-sc coums ac
(tILOGRAM OF OIL EQUIVAEUIT)      50.0      169.0      189.0            581.5                   623.9
PifMATs - VITL    ISTMICS
POPLATION.H[ID-IEAR (TUOUSADS)   3660.0    5000.0     9472.0
RIM POPMLAIONC (2 OF TOTAL)       19.3       27.6       44.1             32A0                    49.0
POPULATION PRJECT3IONS
-              POPULATION IN YEUB 2000 (HIlL)                        17.3
STATINOARY POPUATON (ffILL)                           47.0
POPULATION  1NIUM                                      2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PBR SQ. El.                     10.7       15.5       29.4             65.1                    37.8
PER SQ. KM. ACI. LAID           61.7       86.7      1303              124.8                  470.1
PaPOLATION ACE STRUCTURE :)
0-14 YRS                       43.7       42.        44.7             45.6                    43.5
15-64 URS                       53.6       54.9       53.2             51.5                    53.0
65 AND ABWVE                     2.6        2.1        2.0              2.7                     3.3
POPULATON CR0113 RATE (Z)
TOTAL                            2.1        3.7 Ic     4.9 /c           2.9                     2.8
URBAN                            6.0        7.3        8.3              5.1                     4.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER moS)        42.8       ".2        45.7             47.0                    40.0
CRUDE DEATI RATE (PEILTEMNS)      23.7       20.3       14.2             15.0                    11.5
CROSS REPROOUC1TON RATE            3.2        3.2        3.4              3.2                     2.8
FAMIILT PLAHNNIN
ACMP=TRS. AI1IIAL (TROllS)
USERS CZ OF MA     VE)           ..         ..         3.0              6.4                    21.4
YOM Am 0NUKTIWf
Xinc OF FOOD PwOD. PER CPrrA
(1969-71-100)                     99.0       97.0      111.0             S2.9                    95.1
PER CAPITA SPPLY OF
CALORIES (t OF REQUIREMMTS)    102.0      116.0      108.0             98.5                   118.2
PROTEIS CCRAMS PEI DAT)         49.0       59.0       54.0             554                     77.8
OF 581CR ANIMAL AD PULSE       15.0       16.0       16.0 /d          16.5                    17.8
CHULD (AGES 1-4) DEAtH RAE        41.7       32.3       20.0             16.6                    12.8
LIFE MaECT. AT BIRTH (CEARS)      41.5       45.9       51.5             52.0                    57.8
IFIITr IDRr. RATE (M  7300S)     172.5      148.5      121.0            10.S8                    96.8
ACCES5 TO SAFE WA:E (ZPw)
TOTAL                            ..         ..        65.9 A.          42.4                    67.2
URBAN                            ..         ..        51.0 7           67.5                    93.4
RURAL                            ..         ..        75.0 7;          35.8                    45.B
ACCESS TO EUCrA DISPOSAL
t: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            ..         5.0       25.0 /f          28.9                    45.9
URBAN                            ..        23.0       33.0 7?          57.7                    63.0
RURAL                            ..         ..        22.0 7           20.7                    28.6
POPULATION PER PESICIN                       29190.0    14080.0        ..            11791.7                 4331.0
POP. PER NURSIN PERSON          2920.0 lg  2880.0 lh     ..            2459.8                  1845.0
POP. pER HOSPITAL 
TOTAL                          680.0      790.0        ..             981.1                   621.8
URBAN                            ..       490.0        ..             368.8                   545.0
RURAL                            ..      1330.0        ..            4371.9                  2511.3
AIIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        ..         ..         ..              27.2                    25.7
AVERAGE SIZE Or HOUSErOLD
TOTAL                            ..
UBAN                             3.4 /I
' '          WIa                              ........
AVEtAE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
., -           a                              ........ .
URBAN1.8 It -
,,             La                             ........
- --: .      8PERCENTAGE OF DWCLEINS 111  ELECT.
-TOAL                            1.0 lk
UR-BN                            O.7 UT
. -a-:' .                                      ....-.



-26-                                      Annex I
T A M L C  3A                            Page  2  of  7
lVOAS 1048?           -SlOCIAL INDICATOS DATA R
IVORLY COT                           rVUcE  GROUs CEGmo AVRufh) p
MoR                      (MST 33s311! ESTIMMA) f
jgsj   18n        T -           MDDLE 1r15              NIOE-
IUOj_d    197tL/b  CSITz          AFRICA S. o0 MADAM&   M. APRICA  M ID EST
ADJIIUTD SROLLHNT RATIOS
FRDGAR    TOTAL                  46.0        63.0       76.0 /1            95.7                      9.
G.O        30.0        92.0             100.0                    103.7
FEMAL                  24.0       45.0        60.0              831.2                    75.2
SECOMART: TOTAL                   2.0         9.0       20.0 A             17.3                     42.J
hALE                    4.0       14.0        28.0              25.0                     50.9
FELI                    1.0        4.0        11.0 77           14.J                     346
TOCATIOIIAL (Z OF SECDARY)         12.7         7.3       16.4 /1             5.9                     10.0
PUIL-TLASR RATIO
PEmART                           41.0        45.0       39.0 f             41.1                     29.7
SCODUAT                            ..        21.0         ..               25.5                     16.1
PASSENER CASISTHSID POP             3.3        11.3       14.6 Ia            20.8                     17.3
AIAo REOEIVESS/TUUI1AE  POP        15.9        15.0       110.1             107.8                    175.b
T:t r_               POP            0.4         4.6       36.5               20.1                     51.2
INTEREST") CIROUIATIOR
M THouSeA  POPULATIO               2.3         6.8        7.7               18.4                     37.2
C rN3  AGILAL ATINECAPTrA           ..          2.0 In     0.9 /1             0.4                      2.4
TOTAL LAWOR FO4C (TmOaS)         1656.0      265B.0     4610.0
,uau (PECENT)                    4.2         62.7       60.5               36.2                     11.0
AOCrIOLTIIRZ (PEuCEII)           69.0        84.0       79.0 /             54.5                     42.4
DOSmY (PERCENT)                   2.0         3.0        4.07;             18.3                     27.9
PAMCTIATXCoN Ra (PERC3K)
TO'L                             53.7        53.2       48.7               36.8                     26.2
MaLE                             56.4        59.3       56.0               47.1                     46.2
leaiLu                           49.1        56.7       41.7               27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENNCY RlAIO             0.9         0.8        1.0                1.3                      1
01mma oxe21nm
PERCoNT OF Ph TE MNCOM
RECEIVED BY
zHwST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS            30.9
HIGHEST 2SO      EOL             51A.
LONEST 201 OF IOUSEHLDS           6.6
LOGET 4W1 OF IWfSLDS             16.5
ZS7OUPu  A UN? Z  PV - RT     I
LVEL CUSS PEm CAPITA)
URN                               ..          ..       274.0 /a           590.7                    226.3
MURAL                             ..          ..        96.0 7;           275.3                    134.0
ZSTfl RELATIVE POVEW RTY     M
LEEL (usS Pit CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..       487.0 /a           545.6                    431.5
XURINL                            ..          ..       244.0 7;           201.1                    326.0
STIMAED  POP. BELO  ABSOLUTE
POYTW INCOME LEVEL CZ)
URAL                              ..          ..         ..                 ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICAL
NOTE!S
fa  The group average for each indicator a  popaLatia-wuigbted aritbtic amaxs. Comre of c rie
smog the indicators depends on vailability of dta and is not unfora.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to ary year beteen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" et
1949 ad 1971; and data for "Hot luent Nsciate" betwee 1981 end 1983.
Ic  Due to  -tgr atin population grouch rate ls higher tha  rate of natural Increase; /d 1977; te 1980; /f
1976;  a 1963; lb Cvermnuent personnl only-. /1 Afrcemn populatio  in the city Tfouske onily, for
1957-58; fl 1956-57. AfricIa popuLettc    in urbse centers of Abeugouro. Agbovlle, Daobkro and Mu
only, rxefr to bhosehol; /k 1962; /l 1979; /a 1978; In 1972.
IUNe. 1965



Attinex I
-27  -                                         Page  3  of 7
DEFINmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes Although the dita are drawn from sourcs generallv judged the most authontative and reliable. it should also be noted dint they may not be internationally
compamble because of the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by different countnes in collecting the data. The data are. nonetheless. useful to   i
describe orders of magnitude. indicate trends. and charactenze certain major differences between countries.
The reference groups are l I the same country group of the subject country and (2) a country group with somewhat highcr average income than the country
groupolfthesubject country (ecpt forH "igh Income: Ol Exponers" group where -Middle Income North Afinca and Middle East" ischosen becaUs o  mstronger
socio-cultural alfinitiesl. In the reference group data the averages are population weighted anithmetic means for each indicator and shown oniv when majority
ofthecountries in a group has data for that indicator. Since the coverage ofcounties among the indicators depends on the availability ordata and is not uniform.
caution must be exercised in reating avcrage of one indicator to another. These averages are only useful in companng the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and rerefnc eroups.
4REA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude Birth Rate (per thousand)-Number or live births in the year
*rahat-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1Q60. 1970 and 19S3 data.                                         Crude Death Rate (per thkoaud)-Number of deaths in the year
Agriculfral-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodaction Raze-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-spectfic fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World       Flp Pfa  ig-ccprors. Anna (thsandrj-Annual num-
ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of.national
ENERGY CONSUNPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        Failjy Planing-Users (percent of nmried women)-The percen-
petroleum. naturAl gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricinvy in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. W.'omen
1982 data,                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15 49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
Totad Popuation. Mid-ear thousands)-As of July 1;1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data. -                                                                                              10-ne
Index of Food Prodwciton Per Capia (1969-l = 100)Index of per
Urban Popuaion (percent of rorafi-Ratio or urban to total          capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.        include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcanc instead of sugari
pulation Projections                                               uhich are edible and contain nutrients te-g. coffee and tea are
Population in tear 2000-LThe projection of population for 2000.    excluded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for cach economy separately. Startine with information on     vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertilit rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
wcre projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gencralizcd  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Supply ofCalories (percen ofrequirenrnts)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processinY. and losses in distribution. Requiremcnts were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on Lhe basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. bodv weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fcrtility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate lo replacement levcl.                                         waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentun-Is the tendency for population growth to       Per Capita Supply of Protein (grams per dry)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries estabiished by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as   provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grarns of animal protein as an
Population &c,i,7          -                                      average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkn..-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Protein Supply fros Anial and Pulse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Populaion Aze Strucztre (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-    Clld (oages 1-4) Deazh Rare (per thousand)-Number of dcaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 vears and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given vear. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percentJ-total-Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-vear population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Populton Growth Raze (percentn-urhan-Atnual growth rates           Lire Erpectanq a  Birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.        infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortaUity for all people



-28 -                                       Annex  1
Page 4 of 7
a: the dme of or iu binh we  to sty the same throughout Its lhif;  Atiplechrl  etdo - pnarjy. and jec.odar~'-Tbtal students en.
196C. 1970 and 1913 data.                                    roild in pdmary and secondary level divided by number of
low Mort  Am (per therndJ-Number orinfuat who die    teulhr In the correponding lvel..
bfo  reaching one yer of Ap per tbouand lvO births In a givn
year, 1960. 1970 and 1983 datL                               CONSUMPTION
Acess to Sa  WOO (pet af j0*N e)-WWul, Wha, ad                Phsa&e Cars fpe rvhaad pope4ldonJ-Passenger cars com.
rar-Number of people (total. urbn. and rural) with reuonable  pril motor carn seadng kl  than eight persons; excludes ambul-
ac-  to ufe watr suppy (Includes treated surce wate  or      anoa. heaes and military vehidc.
unteted but uncontaminatod water such u that from protectA    radio Receiues (per thouwad pvpWla ox un-AlI type of receivers
boreholes. sprinpe and santary wells) as pmrcetam ges of their respee-  for radio broadcaots to geneaml public per thousand of populadion:
dive populations. In an urban area a puble fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receiven In countries and in yean when
located not more than 200 meten from a hous may be cone      regiostion of radio seo was In effect: data for recent years may
a being within reasonable acces of that hous. In rurl au     not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable Access would Imply that the housewif or members of the
housdbold do not have to spend a disproportionste pat of the day  TYRIUUS       u per roocs
in fetcininy the familys water ned.                          to general public per thousand populatioh; excludes unicensed TV
in feting the family's Dswater t need.                       receiven in countries and In yesn when  gistraidon of TV no was
Access to Exerta Disposa (pecnt of popubliaoa)-torst w4 n    in effect.
d ,mal--Number of people (total, urban, ad rural) served by
excret dispol u perentages of their respecie populations,    Newvsp     ClfUm*1 (Pw thnsandp op. dr)-S bows the aver-
Excrtet disposl may include the collecdon and disposaL with or  age ciculation of dazly gneral intest newspaper." defined u a
without treament, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording pneml ne.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" If It appean at least four times a week.
P-pult rp  Phpiclan.-Populaton divided by number of prac-    Ciwe  Annual Atendowme per Capar    Year-Baised on the
tising physicians qualiied from a medicalschool at university level  number of ticktcs sold during the year, induding admissions to
Pbpnktron PU Vwul Prsou-Population divided by number of      drive-in cinemai and mobile units
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
pracdcal nurse and nursing auxiliaries.                      L R  FORCE
Ppnaon pea Hopitaf Bed-4oa, urbn an d rura-Population         Total Labor Fare (thousauds,-Economically acdve penons. in-
(lotaL urban, and rural) divided by thir respective number of  eluding anned forces and unemployed but excluding house%ives.
hospital beds available in public and private, general and spedaliz  studcets. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions itt
hospitals and rehabilitation centmrs. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable: 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at lest one physiian. Establishments-prov-  Female fp xrtJ-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
idig principally custodial car. are pot included.  h      ' forRe.
however, include health and medicalcenters not permanently stffed  Auihe (percnw)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, nidwife, etc.)  and fshing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer i-patient accommodaton and.provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilites.                                        Industry (percenrt-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admisioun Pw Hospital Be-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force, 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
PAtcan Rare (percewrc-a4 mak, andfem6ticipatwon
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as total. nalc, and female labor force
AverW   Sihe of Homaeo  (pos Pw howehold)--tora, arban,      as percentages of totaL male and female populadon of all ages
andrarl-A household consit ora group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
lving quarters and their muan meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population, and
may not be included in the household for stadtiscal purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates arc from national sources.
Arlag Number of Penas pU Room--orA mrham, and rural-          Ecoomc Dependncy Raeo-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural   65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent strucurs and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PerJmeage of 0w g with Electriy-to1tal, urban, and rural-    Peetage of Total Disposabke Iconw (bok in cash and kind)-
Convenuonal dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accniing to percentile groups of households ranked by totll house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwelings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adthed EFolent Rato                                          The foUowing estimates are very approximatc measures of poverty
mrbwy sdhwol - total. male and finaI-Gross total. male ad    levcs, and should be interprted with considerable caution.
female enrollmet of all ages at the prinary level as percentages of  Esiated Absolte baer lyncomw Level f US$ PM cpna)-rban
respective prmary school-age populations While many countries  and raral-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primarg swhool age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiremnents is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Eainated Relative Pbomer incem Level (USI per capsta)-rban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are bdow or above the county's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                         derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secwy school - total, male andfemak-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requre at kast four years of approved pri-  Estimaed Popuion Below Absolde Poverty Comae Leod (per-
mary instrction; provides gmeraL vocational or teacher training  cent)--soran ad ruru- Percent of population (urban and rural
s insuctions for pupis usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
cecoursesare genrqafyexcuded.
Vocaina Ei2ro'mei (percent of secondvyJ-Vocational institm-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include-technical, indutriaL or other progams which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independn dgy or as departments of secondary institutions.                           June 1985



- 21 -
Ann" I
hpuiatUil            UNH         l29lHd11,c4ua                                       TAU   i1i torn    . - U_It 1  IIUuIm                                                      Porn  S of 7
WPr bpsta             7           1U11t , Ii_
kmt                                                            Isio gruth rate it? at gutat prms
WaIll.m Lo
l.lct4 w                 it nvr.rt pricn                                   Icteal                             PvrliMlwr                                                    rejuteg
191     1m       13       919"                     1911     192    I1N      194                19     Ink    l9        29"    1to9    1
ulium. ACCMi
bkm  hatic Prect           6734.7                      13.0     4.3      9.9     1.9      7.7              0.3    -4.8      4.4    -4.8               2.1     3.a      3.3     4.1      4.0     4.1
gricslture               171L2                        1.1    -0.      20.1     3.7      9.1              L.7    -2L2    -11.5      1.2              4.15    4.5      4.5      4.5     4,5      4.5
Ifuatry                  1123.9 84.5                          9.4    19.1      6.2      4.5              h.7   -16.2      2.0   -16.1              3.7      4.7    12.1      6.0      0.7    :.J
iSw,ac                   255.0                      -1.9   -86.7    3.6        1.7    3.2                 .0    -4.7    40.3   -I2.8               -.2      1.1      0.2     2.7      4.4      4.2
*      Plan    I &0.htls         161.6                       16.3    30   -14.3    -.          -9.1            -14.3     7.2    -6.1    2.4                2.0      2.1      2.4     3.2      9.4     5.7
r'uuptle.                                141.1         14.0     9.7     1.9    L2         9.4             -1.7    -4.6    -3.3    -2.6                1.4      .4      3.4     5.9      5.9     4.3
Bras lnvti t               103.                        23.6    43.    28.9    -9.3    -7.9                -9.0   -17.5   -29.1    28.4              41.2      L.       2.6     2.7    -.1       3.1
bEprs Of Ws                259.5                       11.7     7.       5.5     L3      IL3               1.5       .1 -l2.7        1.5              9.4     0.7      2.3      2.9     S.l      3.3
lqirt .4 SF5               2461.6                     25.7     2.8    24.6    -3.2       1.1              4.2    -5.    -17.9   -12.9                2.9      5.5      1.2     4.0    L2        3.2
bees leuntic rlayle         451.2                        .9    -L.       3.6    -.        1.2              1.3    -I.6    -0.3    -1.0               4.3    -4.6       5.3    -2.4    -3.1       3.2
Pita'
MP 9ilatmr 1190*LOl         129.5                      6.5     b.4    92.0    97.4   140.4               104.3   1l6.5   129.5   144.4              151.7  1263      116.0   190.1   285.3   221.7
Eachoope rnb   1142- I      311.1                     239.0   245.7   22I.6   212.7   211.3              271.7   32L6    391.    440.0              410.4   44.0   412.0   42L0    449.0   3%.1
Rum ofIF at flrkot Prim(ll                                                  *tawp Assai lncrt (11
[at  ururt prLctel                                                      lat cattt 1I1 pric..)
1965    1910    195       910    19       1990          161210          18791175          1975/1910        891011           1911512991,
n4m  bmtac  rKct                     810.8   140.0   *10.0    1.9   140.9   244.0                 e.7              1.3              6.9             -2.1               3.9
oracultore                          39.     32.9    23l.2    27       27      2.7               5.0              0.7              6.0              -0.1              4.3
Indtry                              15.9   I8        17.2     1.26    85.5    .L               13.4              LI               It.             -4.0               t.h
Serlctu                             27.9    23       36.1    35.      33      32.0              9.4              14.6              4.6             4.3               1.5
Prod. Ma  I lu.1tis                 81.5    20.9    18.0    20.4    23.2       2.17            12.9               1.4            I8.                1.2              3.6
Ct" tim                               71,4    7.3    77.4    79.6    79.7    II.!                 3.5              7.5               t.              -3.S              5.0
frm  In tue                         28.3    20.7    2L2       24.4    13.6   18.5                7.3              5S               11.6           -21.                0.1
Etports    WSS                        36.     35.8    36.7    35.0    40.2    31.3                0                4.9              4.7               1.9              2.
Imports of lS                        30.1    29.2    36.6    41.2    33.5   3D.4                  7.4              5.5             I2.L            -10.9               3.3
nrm   oestic Savings                  3.      32.5    2l.3    20.4    23.8      I.8               9.4              L.5             -t.3              0.7              45
As a?t of UP
FLKIC FIlE                            1965    8m I075    2m             I4      1210
Carrwt   _oveme                       20.6    32.8    29.9    38.?    23.4    24.4
C rr4t Fhp_dit,ms                    24.1    23.7    24.1    25.7    25.6    23.3
6htlac Saving                          3.9     4.1      53      6.0      23      2.2
Capibl Epntnu                         5.1      7.5      3.2   I27        5.2     4.3
Fu'qe Finauscaq (wt)                   0.9     1.4      2.1     8.2      3.!     1.7
DRNE IN  UC 3S                          3-70 ln0-75                    1975-U           I930-5           1115-90
UP irot hbte ICFAI                     3.6              3.3              1.2             -Lt               4.3
UP Wpr Capita  rel  tte  CFal         5.0              -0.2              L I             -6.9                I
ICIIR                                 i.7              LO                3.7               -               3s
Ibilol Sliuqe  tat                     0.               0.4             -D.9              0.3             4.2
I_t Elaticity                         0L              L0                 25              -5.3              1.8



- 30 -
psitatlui             9294         tsmi-2113,tImod)                                      TIAE 3Ll IN" CoT   - Et_IIC 2I3323                                                            Vugj-iTof 7
3sa  Capital          72           lunl. I0I-                                                  -
*Ist                                                          b_Imat Fee" rob it) at castat pricn
bEililN  9t                                        . .. .__,___,____................. __
Iudicatw                  it  srrst  irmc)l                                     lthal                               Pr1iasurl                                               Frjcju
293 - ----------. __ ..-.----- -----.____                                                               ,_ __
2910     2977    913Z    297       2l3               2932     2932     293      293f 4            2135    2130      2937    I9 tttt      1     2993t
!4rrbspiw lapwt             2232.3                       23.3   12.5        1.0    -4.7   -12.4                -5.3     2.1    -16.2      12.4              9.0      0.5      29 t              3.2      3.3
Aqruisltur                 IID-7.9                     39.1    12.4       9.2   -2I.2   -23.3                -L.      1LI    -2.2       13.7              20.5    -2.53      .5       .5      h35      3.5
*3I3.9                       1.2    26.2    -3.7        Lb      23.3              L.        L.0      2.3    -1.5               4.0      0.0    2I.3      20.      2L0      I.o
b       w  I ports          1791.3                       12.4     11.2    22.9    -0I         2.2             -24.3    -S.7   -17.4    -17.7                L4       LI       L4       3.1       L.3     4.4
Issi                        251.2                      17.3    24.1      15.3   I23       -03.5               L.       5.4   -11.4    -2.7                 2.5      7.4      3.5     010      6.3       4.5
P,trcsIus                   344.0                      11.9    -4.3       7.d      4.2      3.2             -37.3   -14.2   -17.3    45.0                21.1      14.0    -1.9    -L3        12.0     LI
Nlslactlred Cass           2243.3                      11.3    22.9   E .7    -5.4          1.4      5       39.1    -L5    -28.5   -1.0                  2.       4.3       3.2     4.3      5.4      L.O
mport left  119.I230                           *          3O0     71.7    11.2    *t.5    264.0                85.2     7S5      15.9    72.3               11.4    72.2    77.5    33.4       39.7    97.2
lsrt Iosn 1190.1161                                      0.0    bb.6      14.2    34.2    10.0                 4.9     1.4      14.0    hl.9              32.3     ALI    ff.2   204.5   224.2   123.3
Trn of Irag Inds                                        2l5.0   101.1    15.2    95.5   243.0                  39.1     3.       11.3    93.0               0.9    33IL      32.4    79.3    17.L    77.5
nua tin of frctadlg  Iradelil                                                    loVa   Asst l2cr... t7J
lot corart prnaln                                                          lit cstat 23 pricas
1%9    12905    913       2975    l293      J9BS     299          129512170         197311915          175/9"O          2195              21"512w
"rA ts                       I20.0    120.0   24LO 107.0     2 00. 0 233.4    220.5   102.0            3.3               3l                L.9              L.                2.4
A9r.cltare                  93.3     70.0    74.9    60.4    04.4    55.7         75.3               3.3              -2.1             I2.I               0.7               1.0
Isistry                      7.0     2i4      23.2    39.1      35.6    44.3 5      .7               3.5              15.1               7.0              2.2              13.L
,owts                        11112.0    120.0   243.0   1060    23L.    130.4   200.0                 0.3               4.4               q.5             -1L4                L5
Food                         v.0    12.3    10.9I       9.4      9.7     2.       2D.4              -1.7               0.5              2LI ..2                             5.L
strolns                      9.4      5.0      3.7     12.0    29.9      11.2    23.2                3.3               1.2              12.3            -21.5               L.I
Nafacteud dide              CI2      73.7    E5.4    79.6    10.4        7L.3    52.4                9.                LI                L7              -14.5               4.n
5s rf IrTad with                            Sarwe *l Tra1e sai                         bars of Trade with
ITuitriat rAitfis IU7                       sdosls       catn (t C2o sllbtal Sri2l  Ii E  I                      Uptus 272
3101ETIN OF T30  hi            945    1910    2975    2979                1295      2I7      2975     17               I25       1970     25       29
Iparts                        12.4    30.9    70.0    81.4                 13.0     22.l    24.2    12.3                9.0       0.2     LO       2.7
Iracoltur                    14.2    39.9    75.9       -                I2.0      7.9    13.L       -                 0.6      3.2      0.3      -
lajitry IErlc. wil          50.3    :3.2    20.5        -                49.0     40.7    be.3.      -                  .0.    0.0      0.3      -
_twst                         14*.7    34.0     32.3     11.1              14.1    24.3    21.4        4.5              0.0      6.2      1.5    11.7
la) Tob ts  itad



- 31 -
Annex I
Takit l I    ae Ow- Fma U Monu, Mm wiT.L M tea                                                                                  P. 1 af 7
,matatsu                 Iaii-2923.thulS   l                            Willis m  at enrui pnmai
lw r  Capet             lU"IMI
ktMm!                                                Rt tlum                                             resjuttl.
am      In&    It"      It7      It"     1*m    lUll    I"2               III      It94             1       19%     lte    Im        1VIV    ltt    1 
Inicb'                                                     -
NSNtE F 7092N13
Eaprb if  es                                3.9  1'1.Z  269.4  20.7  337.3   311.1  2521.2  2417.1                    21.   23J6.              27313   M1.1  32.4  3429.2  31.1  42L4   97.
Imoeb if Gus                               2..   269.2  29324  2651   213.3  hIU.3  214.1  2227.2                     1719.3 D171         .1  IS       26.1  211.2  Z271.4  252.3   22.O  4323
Trm  Suluc.IWUtI                             zLj   372.7   217.0   279.9    31.3  -142.7    3..7    23.               23LS   34.9              2221.t   974.3  124.4  1137.3  122.3  1329.4  2414.5
aitat                                      157.3   230.4   237.9   91.4      tt.1   t47.7   63.3  3*74.9 tL                   373.3            217.&   237.4   264.9  2M.3   313.   313.         33.0
frad 1alc IlAFUl                           221.    174.3    t4.9   172.3   4111.9   I5        7.5   dL.               3LS . £213.2            139.3  122.   24.   10.1 I52        5.9  1709.5  330
Serice me Trmafl                           -10.   -372.1  -919.9  -2337.3  -311.9  -2260.0 -W.33.  -269              -4521.3 -I367.2          -44.  -1469.3  -1791.3 -112.7  -21U.2 -23.  -3249.7
f36  Fact. 3mr. Papetetl                  -377.4  -4.1   -7.#  -112.3  -1111.1 -236.2.  -.42S5   43.t               -41.3   -87.2             -6t    -73.4  431.9 -229.2  -1245.1  -230.9 -I333.2
Fcter S5e. Payietsl                      -233.   -363.   -44.9  -124.4  42n4.0  -95.0  -93.4  -95                    -921.0   -1L0            -4neL2  -4147   491.4  -M.5  -33IL.  -233LI -225r.3
*       - literat lip                              -54     -74.1   -931   -1.2  -242.0  -12         -35.4  -42                54.0  -D9.0             4322   -63161   -3.0  -39.    613  -*.3  -3u.7
- lfkis iettce                           -177.1  -29.6  -344.3  -4333  -M3        -61.7  -5142   -44L5              -36L0   -3e              -31     -333.2   39.4 -J3.9  -430.   432L3  -4.11
ilt Trslr                                   -        -       0.4    2.0   17.3   31.1    73.           ..9            9O        10              33.     2LI    20.0    20.    I3.3    2.0    20.0
Luis kenit (2mm                            -3l4.0  -243.0  -315.   -731.  -121.0 -115.3  -1224.3  -I0.0                92e -60   3.0           -234.1   43L2    -451.0  42.6   31.3  '123.1  -239.4
itrct Fuurp lsntust                         7L.      LO    ff 1-33.2           .0   303.0   330.0   134.8             123.0    45.             23.0 2A3.    131.0 I     32.    134.3  IlO    191.4
ILT CapEal                                  207.2   23.2   634.1   721.2  162.3    3.4    9R.4   esL                   139.0     .0 4m.e3   33m4   333.1   39.3   240.    213.0   3.3
lltar Cant.!                                113.3   -3.3  -21.1    3t.3   611.7 ?     13.1      1.6   -54.0             SO   -124.0               0.4     3.0     0.0     LO       Lo L0            0.0
V   f lbUI.r..                               9ts0   -20.4   -434.0  -334.0   29.3   140.0   143.    357.0              124.0   -7.3           -436t    J3.4   -17.2   1767   311.7   230.4  -2913
Iears  .w"o                                 3912   410.2   145.2   17.2   33.2  -356.3  -799.3  411.3                -3573.3  -132.0         -16L1   -302 .1  -3184.3 -1251.0 -*1.7  -I:.l -17n j
EnIE. celI  o  w 213   :
Official C                                  .t.     -      30.3    20.    20.3   126.3    13S    14.4                 97.9    73.0            1[.0    10.0    30.0   2L0        I0.        0     0.
icins aIowa                                39.4    35.4    30. 75.7    4e.7    34.1    49.9   1.                      61.2     t               us      7W 834.7    n.4    9.    262    113.7
m                                        25.2     6.1    37.6    27    4.3    Z.9           9.4 32.        It          s
ESC                                       -        -       -       -       .       -        -       -                -       -                -                                           
1215                                      2.0     l0      4.0      1.0
Eter                                     13.2      .3      3.7    37.0      .4    621      30.5     4.7              37      - W-                             -        -               -       -
twe-cicieaauaal Lam                       335.7   33l3   771.4   911.7  339.6  2139.7   "9I  12244.7                  3L2    453.7            493.     It.3   "45       A.9  2343.4  132L6  339.0
fACIal Eap. railet -hlatwrl              23.2    27.4    49.4      7.3   213.4    6.1    32.9    33.3               67.3     -
M                                        75.     14.0      7.0    S.0    51.0    33L7    47.3   219.5              1.0   2.3e               221.7   241.4   241.4   245.    233   291.9   2a.3
KWhel httat.Iera                         12.3     7.2    21.1    tL       21.3    29A      10.4    132              14.6     -
Prufate                                 249.0   231.1   46.    793.1    19.3   235.3         2   932.7             32      3.3              14.2    450   514.3   ILt        WM1.4   12.3   9t45.3
ateral go1
*  Iestsmia *    hShIsWEred               O4   942L3   37.3 193L   32119  394.2  433L4  4323.5                     3231.2  533.5 1.70.2  6414-3                396            7011.5  1236.0   117.7
oficul                                  317.4   34.5   431.3   30L3   31U.2  1474.4  32t1.1  233.6                1741.7  261.             2336.3  262.   2916I .31LLI  33.t9  5119.5  4393.
Privt,                                  374.0   531.3   73L3  1319.3  3ll.7  2619.0   MU 2.   319T                341.3  392.6             3739   37129  306  377  36.   36.   41U.t
IIt lmd hOt                               4  9     CI 32.    143.2  2037.7  1739.0  1354.0  1478.7  216L4           2176.5   25.9            2027.6  J137.5  32233S  1331.   1399.9  3399.9  1737.7
31t Service 13i
Teat uriQe pwaits                        130.4   133.2   27.L       3.1    :       127.7    ?.:    63.               3L32    162.1            734.4  231.C  1433.2  12LY   ;._I   3619.3  2407.4
lat                                      5L6     l7.1   3I3L     174.7   227.5   107.4   245.3   07.4              441.3    0L2             43L4   6L7   63L.    391.    as3    U1233   33.7
hUt Servie Rathe                            1.1     9.3    20.1    IL2       3t.0    25.2    26.     32.7             34.0    2.1              24.1    45.5    40    43.I 4IL2            .5    27
lit Sur. Sato tnrld1zq lft                  -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -               -        -                       4.      39.1    39.3    39.3    33.6    26.7
*-op Itaat letaa  san lIam                    LO      7.5     7.7    3L        I.2     3.5     3.2      3.2             20.3    23W              12.7    IL3    31.0    30.       1L4    2L2    10.3
UItstal                                     7.3     6.9     6.6                      -            -       -            -               -        -                   -        -           -       -
rivalte                                     .3      7.6     3.3     -        -       -       -        -               _        -                        - _        _       _             - _
buwge latwity IF mmlam                       IL6    33.6    11.2       9.3    32.5     3.0    10.7    11.1              U2.0     7.1             14.7    2.      I3.3    22.      13L1    IL4      2.2
Offidal                                    13.0     1       37      - .              -        .       -                        _ -                      .       _ -              _ - 
Prnnte                                      3.7     9.0     9.2
31 If Mll abtriat 9rn am prajacti
21 ES 5xrae
It PVoJctsIm  lEcl2ib Slevit Paweit a IS 3 bWates Acugut
06 I of gat htstadl
- r                                                                                            at iS Di_t rait
5ateritp Strictre, al Beat h-tstil
Alicapal at Munni I yeas                                                                             49.3
Fnscipl  . within 11 yaw                                                                             9I4
laert  Strirtwe r. ihit hstiaq4
lst ! du i_thhi 5 IF4s                                                                               32.2



- 32 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ivory Coast
A. Statement of Bank Loans and Credits (as of March 31, 1985) 1/
US$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower     Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One credit fully disbursed                                  -     7.5
Twenty-eight loans fully disbursed                        694.1   -
1177-IVC      1976    BIDI         DFC                      8.0   -          0.85
1347-IVC      1977    Ivory Coast Urban Development        30.0   -          2.98
1348-T-IVC    1977    Ivory Coast Urban Development        14.0   -          1.37
1501-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast Feeder Roads             29.0   -          4.79
1577-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast Abidjan Sewerage II    33.0   -            8.46
1633-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast Rubber III                7.6   -          0.03
1663-IVC      1979    CCI          Artisans                12.6   -          6.44
1698-IVC      1979   Ivory Coast Tourism II                14.2   -          4.90
1735-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Forestry                18.0   -          4.63
1777-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast  Education III           24.0   -         10.77
1827-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast Rural Development         9.4   -          6.20
1896-IVC      1981    EECI         Power                   33.0   -         26.66
1914-IVC      1981    Ivory Coast Highway Sector          100.0   -         34.34
2048-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast Urban Development II   51.0   -           26.27
2059-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast Technical Assistance   16.0   -           10.87
2130-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  2nd Water Supply        43.0   -         27.57
2167-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast Center West              13.0   -         10.46
2189-IVC      1982    PETROCI      Petroleum              101.5   -         59.03
2323-IVC      1983    Ivory Coast Rubber IV                32.2   -         23.01
2496-IVC      1985    Ivory Coast Forestry II 2/           31.3   -         31.30
Total                             1,314.9   7.50     300.93
Of which has been repaid           118.7    .15
Total now outstanding             1,196.2   7.35
Amount sold                   5.1
of which has been repaid      5.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA            1,196.2   7.35
Total Undisbursed                           300.9            300.9
1/  In addition, a $110 million loan for the Second Highway Sector Program
was signed on June 21, 1985.
21  Not yet effective.
f. .-. :   



- 33 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
B. Statement of Regional Bank Loans and Credits to Ivory Coast
and Other West African Countries
US$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower      Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1295-WAE      1976    CIMAO         Regional Clinker        49.5   -           0.00
1490-ICUV     1978    RAN           Regional Railway        23.0   -           0.00
969-WAF      1980    BOAD          Project Preparation      -     3.0         1.94
2242-WAF      1983    BOAD          Regional Development    6.1   -            6.05
1331-WAF      1983    BOAD          Regional Development    -    14.0         14.00 3/
'r
3/  This Credit is denominated in Special Drawing Rights.  The figures in
this table have been converted to U.S. dollars at exchange rate
prevailing at time of Credit negotiations.



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
C. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1985)
Type of               US $ '000
Year    Obligator                      Business            Loan     Equity    Total
1965    Banque Ivoirienne de           Industrial            -       204.0    204.0
Diveloppement Industrial       Development Bank
1978    Banque Ivoirienne de           Industrial            -       219.5     219.5          -
D-veloppement Industrial       Development Bank
1979    Eta R. Gonfre'ville, S.A.      Textiles              -       884.7     884.7
1980    Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais   Fertilizers       5,120.0   1,272.0   6,392.0
1980   MSO                             Flour Mill        2,900.0     406.7   3,306.7
1985   Co. des Caoutchoucs de          Rubber            2,280.0     270.0   2,550.0
Pakidie S.A.                   Plantation
Total Gross Commitments                         10,300.0.  3,256.9  13,556.9
Less cancellation, sold or repaid                  320.0       -       320.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                9,980.0   3,256.9  13,236.9
, = -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 35 -
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  2 years
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Ministries of Finance
and Industry and the national branch of BCEAO in Abidjan, assisted
by tank staff
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: September
1983
(d) Date of departure of the appraisal mission: May 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: June 7, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 31, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
none
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The implementation of the structural adjustment reforms for the
industrial sector, substantially in accordance with the agreed
schedule (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 25);
(b) The establishment of a Loan Administration Comiitteo with the
Central Bank as its Executive Secretary and the signing of a
protocol between the Government and the Central Bank defining the
functions and responsibilities of the latter as the Executive
Secretary, both under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 45);
(c) Issuance by the Government, through the Central Bank, of a
detailed circular outlining the terms and conditions for the use
of the line of credit by the banking system (Condition of
Effectiveness; para. 50);
(d) Issuance by the Government of a project evaluation manual to the
banking system (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 49);
(e) For each participating bank, the signing of a Subsidiary Relending
Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(Condition of Disbursement; para. 50); and
(f) The undertaking by the Government to take such steps as
necessary to ensure continued utilization of the line of credit in
-light of the prevailing BCEAO regulations, including for instance
seeking a waiver from the monetary authorities in regard to the
interest rate ceiling (para. 51).



13RD 1481R3
ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
: < M / A 3~~~~~~~~~URKINA|
:                                                                                               a2.    dUK A
IVORY COAST
Ew,h and gravel madc,
G U I N E A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4%                                                            0Natkoeml Capial
* Deporttment caPitals
4    Iwsmahonal airports
-Rivws
Department boun~daries
-.-Wsnahod bomnduies
U A    I IA N I A
LIBERIASidi                        -                       Mi            x                                                                A 'v-    LLSNI    C  AI
-                  Gui n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~BRKN






