Docwment of
The World Bank
Wolk OMFIIAL USE ONLY
R eot No. 5489-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 5, 1985
Western Africa Projects Departnent
*Industrial Development and Finance Division
. .- Th  docnoo    eN a  ud dbgd   =d ma be we  s aY_
dbrdZi ffic oom he o"*eSS M not od*rwke be kdbdosd wldtt WVod Bank sidzoAhl-n



CURRENCY EQUIVAENTS
Currency Unit = CFA France (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAE 450
CFAF 1 - US$0.0022
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNS
BCEAO         -  Central Bank of Vest African States
("Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de
l'Ouest")
BIAO          -  International Bank for "West Africa ("Banque
Internationale pour l'Afrique de 1'Ouest")
BICICI        -  International Bauk for Commerce and Industry
- Ivory Coast (" Banque Internationale pour
le Commerce et l'Industrie - Cote d'Ivoire")
BICT          -  Ivorian Bank for Construction and Public
Works ("Banque Ivorienne de Construction et
de Travaux Publics")
BIDI          -  Ivorian Bank for Industrial Development
("Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement
Industriel")
BNDA          -  National Bank for Agriculture Development
("Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole")
BNEC          - National Bank for Savings and Credit ("Banque
Nationale d'Epargne et de Credit)
CAPEN         -  Center for Assistance and Promotion of National
Er-terprises ("Ceitre d'AssiStance et de
Promotion des Entreprises Nationales")
cCI           -  Credit of Ivory Coast ("Credit de la Cote
d'Ivoire")
CEAO          - West African Ecoiomic Community ("Coumunaute
Economique des Pays de l'Afrique de l'Ouest")
COFINCI       -  Financial Company of Ivory Coast ("Compagnie
Finaci&re de la Cote d'Ivoire")
DFC           -  Development Finauce Company
EIB           -  European Investmeut Bank
SGBCI         -  Society General Bank in Ivory Coast ("Socifte
Generale de Banques en CMte d'Ivoire")
SIB           -  Ivorian Society of Banks ("Societe Ivoirienne
de Banques")
SHE           -  Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
UMOA          -  West African Monetary Union ("Union
Monetaire Ouest Africaine")
FISCAL YEAR
Government:        January 1 - December 31
Banking System:    October 1 - September 30



FOR OMCALM USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE                     ..                     i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................        ii-iv
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                               1
II. THE SETTING.                                                               1
A. The Economic Environment    ..
1. Past Performance            ..                                  1
2. Recent Developments           ..                                2
B. The Industrial Sector            ..                                 3
1.  Policies, Performance and Structure.                           3
2. Problems and Constraints           .        .                   3
3. The Policy Reform ..                                            4
4. Prospects ..                                                    5
C. The Financial Sector            ..                                  7
1.  Policy Framework ............................. ... ..          7
2. Interest Rate Structure...   8
3.  Institutions in the Financial System        .     .            9
4. Industrial Finance   .                  .10
5. Prospects and Constraints   .               .11
D.  Bank Strategy for the Industrial Sector          . . .12
III.   THE PROJECT ..................................................   13
A. Project Origin and Objecives .13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Ivory
Coast in May 1984. The mission members were Messrs. B. Jetha, T. Dinh and
Ms. A. Galenson. Ms. Elizabeth Martin is responsible for the typing and for the
overall presentation of the report.
This dooment has a rsicted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the perforance of
their ofiil dui. Its contents may not oderwi be dscosd wthout Wodd Bank authorzaion.



Table of Contents (Continued)
B. Project Description                        .....  14
1. The Line of Credit...                                              14
2.  Industrial Advisory Services Unit             . .. .18
3. Studies...                                                         19
4.  Advisory Services to the Central Bank ...                         19
5. Consultancy Services for Economic Analysis   20
C.  Project Costs and Financing..                                          20
D.  Project Implementationp... . . e. . . .........     t.........   21
1.  Implementing Agencies .         . ........................,,.,,   21
2. Monitoring....                                                     21
3. Procurement                 .       .        .................  22
4.  Disbursements           ................. ......        .         22
E.  Benefits and Risks .       .     .    ...................23.....   23
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIOM .23
ANNEXES
2-1    Contribution of the Manufacturing Industry to the Ivorian ,.conomy
2-2    Summary description of the major manufacturing subsectors
2-3    Status of the Industrial Sector Reform
2-4    Total Credit Outstanding by Sector and Term, 1980-83
2-5    Central Bank Refinancing of the Total Credit Outstanding
2-6    Summary Balance Sheets of the Banking Institutions
3-1     Central Bank Refinancing Criteria
3-2    Estimated Level of Projected Investments by 51 Major Firms
3-3    Central Bank Credit Authorizations Dec.1, 1980 - Aug. 20, 1984
3-4    Project Costs and Financing
3-5    Disbursement Schedule
MAP
IBRD No. 14699 R 3



IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE NUMBER: 221.947
A. Financial Sector
A.1 Les Operations et Resultats d'Exploitation des Banques 1981-1982;
BCEAO
A.2 Banking System: Summary Balance Sheets 1982/1983 and selected
annual reports
A.3  La Crise de Liquidite de l'Economie Ivoirienne;  de Boissieu,
,hristian, May 1984
A.4 La Nouvelle Politique de la Monnaie et du Credit; Central Bank,
February 1976
A.5 Ivory Coast: Selected Issues Concerning the Banking Sector and the
Five Specialized Banks; Dr. Silva Lopes, October 1984
A.6 Le Systame Bancaire de la Cote d'Ivoire; draft, Alain Serge,
December 1984
A.7 Statistiques Economique et Monetaires; Central Bank
B.  Industrial Sector
3.1 Examen et Evaluation du Secteur Textile; Gherzi Textile
Organization, December 1983
B.2  L'Industre du Bois en Cote d'Ivoire:  Structure, Performance
Perspectives; Jaakko P5yry Consultants, April 1984
B.3 Review and Assessment of the EMI Subsector in Ivory Coast;
Jan Romanowski, January 1984
B.4 Diagnostic et Evaluation des Agro-Industries en C^te d'Ivoire;
SCET-AGRI, April 1984
B.5 Agro-Industries: Perspectives du D6veloppement du Secteur;
Dr. Sabates et K. Green, February 1982
B.6 Industrie des Plastiques: Ministry of Planning and Industry,
March 1982
B.7 Situation des Industries du Bois; Ministry of Planning and
Industry, January 1981
B.8 Synthese des Travaux de Contr^ole; Industries du Textile; Ministry
of Planning and Industry, July 1982
C. Other
C.1 Note sur le Classement des Signatures; Central Bank, Abidjan
C.2  Autorisations Prealables Sollicitees et Accordees 1980-1984;
Central Bank, Abidjan
C.3 Autorisations Prealables: Instructions aux Banques; Central Bank,
Abidjan
C.4 Coefficients Reglementaires Imposes aux Banques; Central Bank,
Abidjan
C.5 Organigramme du Service Credit; Central Bank, Abidjan



- ii -
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. Borrower:                        The Republic of Ivory Coast
2. Financial Intermediaries:        Commercial and specialized banks customarily
involved in industrial lending.
3.  Beneficiaries:                  Manufacturing enterprises.
4.  Amount:                         US$30 million equivalent.
5.  Terms:                          Interest at the standard variable rate
plus standard conmitment and front-end
fees. Amortization over 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
6.  Project Description:            In support of a program of major industrial
policy reforms, which the Government has
begun to implement in the framework of the
Bank's Second Structural Adjustment Loan to
the Ivory Coast, the proposed project
provides a line of credit and a package of
technical assistance services aimed at
facilitating the adjustment of potentially
viable existing enterprises to the reformed
policy environment. As a second priority,
the project would support new industrial
investments provided they present high
economic and financial rates of return. It
would also assist the development of Ivorian
manufactured exports to countries outside the
West African Economic Community. Finally, as
a departure from the Bank's previous approach
in the Ivory Coast of lending through a
single DFC, the line of credit under this
project would be made available to all sound
banking institutions customarily involved in
industrial lending, subject to their meeting
certain minimum creditworthiness
requirements.



- iii -
7. Onlending Terms:                 The line of credit of US$28.5 million
equivalent would be onlent to participating
banks through the Central Bank at the
prevailing variable Bank rate. Subloans by
participating banks to beneficiary
enterprises would also be at a variable rate
equal to the Bank rate plus 5% p.a., of which
3% p.a. would represent the authorized spread
to the banks and 2X would constitute a fee,
accruing to the Government for its assumption
of the exchange risk. Maturities of subloans
would range from 2 to 15 years inclusive of
grace periods of 1 to 3 years. The balance
of US$1.5 million would finance technical
assistance services to the Ministry of
Industry, the Central Bank and the banking
system.
8. Estimated Costs:                   Local            Foreign            Total
U----;S$ Million equivalent …
Subproject Investments            19.00             28.50             47.50
Technical Assistance
of which:
Industrial Advisory Unit        0.40               0.60              1.00
Advisor to the Central Bank      0.10              0.15              0.25
Consultancy Services to Banks   0.02               0.08              0.10
Studies                         0.05               0.20             0.25
Contingencies                                      0.15              0.15
TOTAL                             19.57             29.68             49.25
9. Financing Plan
IBRD                              0.32              29.68             30.00
Government                         0.20               -                0.20
Central Bank                       0.05                                0.05
Subproject Sponsors               19.00               -               19.00
TOTAL                             19.57             29.68             49.25
10. Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year          1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
-'JS$ Million equivalent           -
Annual                     1.35   5.40   7.80   6.60   4.80   2.16   1.89
Cumulative                1.35   6.75  14.55  21.15  25.95  28.11  30.00



- iv -
11. Benefits and Risks:             Major benefits of the project would be to
(i) facilitate the implementation, at the
enterprise level, of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program; (ii) provide
needed term resources and technical
assistance for the adjustment, through
restructuring, rehabilitation and/or
expansion, of potentially viable enterprises
affected by the ongoing policy reform; (iii)
strengthen the capacity for development
lending in a larger number of financial
institutions, including the commercial banks;
(iv) assist the development of manufactured
exports to nontraditional markets; and (v)
initiate discussions with the Government and
BCEAO -- the regional Central Bank - on some
key issues in the financial sector. The two
major risks faced by the project stem from
the relative unfamiliarity of the Central and
the participating banks with IBRD
requirements for subproject appraisal and
processing, and some uncerrainty concerning
the pace at which loan demand for
restructuring investments would materialize,
both of which could delay project
implementation. The project seeks to
minimize these risks by including advisory
services to the banks and to the enterprises.
12. Economic Rate of Return:        A minimum ERR of 15% required for all
subprojects
13. Staff Appraisal Report:         No. 5489-IVC
14. map:                            IBRD No. 14699 R 3
WAPID
June 1985



IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In the framework of the Bank's Second Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL II), the Ivory Coast Government has begun to implement a program of major
policy reforms in the industrial sector. These reforms include, inter alia, a
revision of the tariff structure, a phased elimination of quantitative import
restrictions, introduction of an export subsidy scheme, various changes in the
investment and taxation codes and a reform of the institutions in charge of
industrial promotion. While these measures, aimed at alleviating structural
constraints and restoring conditions for renewed growth, are expected to lead in
the medium-term to the development of a more dynamic, efficient and outward
looking industry, they will also require, in the short term, a difficult
restructuring effort on the part of a number of existing firms.
1.02      The project is a logical complement to this program of policy reform
and is aimed principally at providing a package of financial and technical
assistance services to ease and speed up the adjustment of potentially viable
enterprises to the new policy regime. In line with this objective, the project
consists of a loan in the amount of US$30 million equivalent to the Ivory Coast
Government for funding of (i) a line of credit to finance investment and
permanent working capital requirements of manufacturing enterprises in need of
restructuring, rehabilitation or expansion, as well as for new projects (US$28.5
million); (ii) an Industrial Advisory Services Unit to assist enterprises
affected by the reforms (us$0.8 million); (iii) product identification,
marketing or other studies to help develop exports of manufactured products
(US$0.25 million); (iv) advisory services for the Central Bank (US$0.2 million);
and (v) consultancy services to train the staff of the Central and participating
banks in economic analysis of sub-projects (US$0.1 million).
II. THE SETTING
A. The Economic Environment
1. Past Performance
2.01      During the first two decades after independence in 1960, Ivory Coast
experienced an average real GNP growth rate of 7% per annum. a unique record on
the African continent and also one of the fastest development rates for any
non-oil exporting country in the world. As a result, per capita income rose



- 2 -
from US$145 at independence to US$1,150 in 1980, the second highest in
sub-Saharan Africa. The current population of Ivory Coast is estimated at
9 million with an annual rate of growth (including immigration) of 3.9X. The
Government has pursued growth as a primary objective since independence, in a
remarkably stable political environment. Political ideology has played a
secondary role in a system characterized by a wide scope for private initiative
and pragmatic public policies. The open economy has attracted labor from
neighboring countries and capital, technology and skilled personnel from Europe.
2.02      Agriculture provided the basls for this rapid growth in the Ivorian
economy. Coffee, cocoa and timber have been the main source of export earnings,
income generation and public savings, although Important progress has been msde
in diversifying into other products such as palm oil, rubber, pineapples and
cotton. With no mining activity to speak of, exploitation of the recently
discovered offshore petroleum deposits is the only significant activity in the
extractive field. Sizeable surpluses generated by the agricultural sector have
allowed the other sectors, including industry, to grow rapidly. As a result,
the relative share of agriculture in GDP declined from 44Z in 1960 to 26Z In
1980. The share of industry rose from 14X to 242. while the balance (502) is
accounted for by services. The contribution of oil to GDP is still relatively
small, accounting for 3Z in 1983.
2. Recent Developments
2.03      Over the past five years, the Ivory Coast economy has been subjected
to a series of external shocks: the sharp decline following the 1976-77 boom In
coffee and cocoa prices, the subsequent increase in the cost of imported oil,
sharp increases in dollar exchange rates and In real interest rates on
international financial markets and, more recently, the adverse effects of a
drought. These shocks led to a rapid deterioration in the financial situAtion
(the public sector deficit was 10 of GDP in 1983), a decline of 82 in real CDP
over the three years 1980-83, and another 4X in 1984, and a significant fall in
per capita income (US$720 in 1983). 1/
2.04      The Government, with IMF support, responded to this development by
adopting a stringent financial recovery and stabilization program, aimed at
reducing the imbalances in public sector finances and external accounts. In
parallel, supported by two Bank adjustment loans, it has begun to Implement a
medium-term program of structural reforms aimed at improving the management of
public finance, investment and enterprises, and the policies and lnstitutlons in
the agricultural, industrial, education and housing sectors. The resulting
sharp decline in public investment coupled with domestlc and international
recession has had a severe impact on the secondary sector, in particular on the
construction and public works industry where output has declined by 662 since
1979. Other sectors have not been as severely hit, but employment in the modern
sector as a whole has declined by some 132 over the past four years. Likewise,
1/   The decline In per capita income is tue In part to the devaluation of
the Franc via-A-vis the dollar.



- 3 -
despite heavy investments in the oil sector, gross investment dropped to 15% of
GDP in 1983 and 1984, down from 24Z In 1980.
B. The Industrial Sector
1. Policies. Performance and Structure
2.05      Despite its emphasis on agriculture, the Ivorian Government has always
given a high priority to industry in its economic development policies. It has
not, however, invested heavily Itself, but has relled extensively on private
initiative (mainly foreign) and on various instruments Including tariffs, Import
regulations, fiscal and financial incentives and a generous investment code to
foster growth in the sector. As a result of theme policies, and of the
political stAbility which has characterized the country, the industrial sector
has been one of the most dynamic elements in the Ivorian economy since
Independence in 1960. Growing at an average rate of close to 10X per annum, It
accounted for one-flfth of GDP in 1980. The share of industry in total
merchandise exports increased steadily from 232 in 1970 to almost 50 in 1983.
Within the industrial sector, startiug from a very small base, manufacturing
actlvlty grew at an average rate of close to 13% per annum and by 1981 accounted
for 12% of GDP. up from 4% in 1960. Manufacturing currently accounts for some
24% of total employment in the formal sector and comprises more than 700 firms
coverlntg a broad spectrum of actlvities. The relative contributions of the
various branches of manufacturing to the economy and a  umma ry description of
the most Important branches are presented in Annexes 2-1 and 2-2.
2.06      Processed foods, wood products, textiles and vegetable oils remain the
most important manufactured products, accounting for 72% of sectors] value
added, although refined petroleum and derivative, are becomlng increasingly
important. Ivorian industry is heavily concentrated In and around Abidjan.
accounting for over half of industrial output and employment. The size
distribution of enterprlses In quite skewed; 45 enterprises (6% of the total
number) account for about 70% of output, 56X of employment and 87% of total
Investments in the sector. Linkages among enterprises are limited, particularly
between amll and large fimrs. Majority ownership in most firms is private with
over one-third of the total equity In industry owned by foreigners, to a large
extent by French nationals.
2. Problems and Constralnts
2.07      After the sustained period of rapld growth through the 1970'&, the
Industrial sector in Ivory Coast In recent years has lost much of its previous
dynamism and is now faced with declining output and Investment and conalderable
marketing and financial difficulties   While the world wlde recession and the
drastic stabilization program undertaken by the Government since 1980 have been
major contributing factors, tight bank credit and growing distortions In the
incentives system have also been at the root of this problem.
2.08      The initial phase of Industrialization, which was based on the
continuous expansion of the domestic market and on the development u; West
African Economic Community (CEAO) regional markets, took place In the context of



- 4 -
a relatively siuple system of incentives, Including a generous Investment Code
and a moderate tariff schedule which applied fairly uniform protection across
various branches, with little recourse to quantitative import restrictions.
Increasing wage costs which followeii the rapid growth of the 1960's and the
completion of the easiest phase of import substitution led to demands for
somewhat higher protection in the early 1970's which was granted through a
reform of the Customs Code in 1973. The acceleration of domestic inflation in
1975 and the overvaluation of the CFA franc which followed the coffee and cocoa
boom of 1976-77 further eroded the competitiveness of Ivorian enterprises and
led to increased protection through recourse to quantitative restrictions.
2.09      While these protectlve policies permitted growth in the sector to be
maIntained during the boom years, they also planted the seeds for the sector's
lnabllity to cope with the current lean years. Indeed, by introducing a high
degree of dlstortion In incentives across the Industrial branches, they
encouraged the development of inefficient activities which are unable to compete
on non-protected markets and which generate foreign exchange savings at a high
cost In terms of domestic resources. By encouraging sales on the domestic
market and discriminating against exports, they also compromised the growth
potentlal of the Industrial sector at a time when the most obvious opportunities
for exports within the protected CEAO markets had already been exploited and
sales to non-regional markets were becoming crucial to sustain the expansion of
the Industrial base and to generate foreign exclhange earnings required to
balance the country'. external financial position.
2.10      The distorted system of incentlves also hampered the development of
linkages within the sector. Provisions such as the high degree of tariff
escalatlon according to the degree of processing and generous tariff exemptions
an intermediate inputs accorded to firms under the investment code encouraged
investment In consumer goods Industries but discouraged local production of
intermediate goods. Finally, the institutional support provided by the
Government to prooto Industry, In particular small and medium scale industry,
proved to be largely ineffective, due in part to poor management and lack nf
coordinatlon among the various public entitles.
3. The Policy Reform
2.11      In reponse to the deterioration of industrial performance, the
Government, in the framework of SAL II, decided to carry out the first stages of
a comprehensive reform of Its system of industrial Incentives. The maln
objectlve of the reform is to restore the conditions of growth In the sector
over the madlum term by provlding a coherent incentive system that wlll give
equal encouragement to production for both local and export markets, encourage
integration of local Industry. and foster greater efflclency and productivity In
the sector. With one exception (par&. 2.12). the bulk of the reforms to be
undertaken In the context of SAL 11 became effective in March 1985. 2/
2/   More detailed information on the :ontent and the current status of the
incentives reform can be found In An,ex 2-3.



- 5 -
2.12      In order to improve the competitiveness of the induscrial sector and
to promote intra-sectoral linkages, the Government has carried out a
comprehensive revision of the tariff system and of quantitative import
restrictions. Effective tariff protection rates applying to most branches of
Industry (over 75Z of industrial value added) and, within each branch, to
different levels of processing, have been harmonized around a target level of
40%, and quantitative restrictions are being replaced by temporary import
surcharges, which will decline over time awd will be eliminated after five
years. The bias against exports, inherent in the previous system of incentives,
is being substantially eliminated by the introduction of a subsidy on value
added for manufactured exports to countries outside the West African Economic
Community. Due to delays in setting up the administration of the subsidy, this
measure is not yet effective. Implementation of the subsidy would be a
condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan.
2.13      The Investment Code has been revised to encourage the creation of new
industrial enterprises, particularly in regions away from Abidjan, and to
eliminate the discrimination against local suppliers of intermediate inputs and
against small and medium scale enterprises. In particular, the provision
allowing priority firms to import intermediate inputs duty-free has been
abolished. In its place, a'subsidy is being offered based on Ivorian value
added and on location.
2.14      The revision of domestic taxation aims at removing the distortions
remaining in the present tax system, in particular through a progressive
generalization of the value added tax system to cover the first processing of
agricultural raw materials, and through the provision of adequate fiscal
incentives for new firms which do not apply for priority treatment under the
Investment Code.
2.15      On the institutional front, apart from establishing a separate
Ministry of Ind'istry to act as the focal point for all policies affecting the
sector, the Government has taken steps to reform the institutions in charge of
Industrial Promotion. CAPEN, the ineffective small and medium scale enterprises
(SME) promotion agency, is being restructured and a new non-banking financial
entity is being established to manage the Government's SME Participation and
Credit Guarantee Funds. In contrast to past policy, both these institutions are
expected ro be partly owned and managed by the private sector. Likewise, in
collaboration with the private sector, the Government is also in the process of
setting up an Industrial Promotion Bureau, specifically aimed at promoting
private foreign investment in the country. Finally, an Industrial Project Unit
has been established in the linistry of Industry to appraise the economic
soundness of all new large industrial investments undertaken in the country, as
well as those applying for investment code benefits.
4. Prospects
2.16      Despite current difficulties in the sector, the potential for further
rapid industrialization in the Ivory Coast remains promising. The industrial
sector is still relatively small and as yet undiversified, hence opportunities
for linkages are good; the country's agriculturL' base is strong and rapidly
diversifying, thus offering a good potential for further investment in



- 6 -
agro-processing activities; a relatively high level of per capita income and a
rapidly growing population constitute an expanding domestic market;
infrastructure facilities in the country are excellent; and the Government's
attitude towards private initiative remains positive. Finally, the country has
a stable political climate and an essentially market-oriented economy which are
important considerations for new, particularly foreign, investment in the
sector.
2.17      The policy reform described above represents a major step in
alleviating str-letural constraints which have increasingly inhibited realization
of this potential in recent years. By eq;ualizing incentives for exports with
those for sales on the domestic market and aligning the producer costs and
prices more closely with world prices, the reform will significantly correct the
import-substitution bias of past policies and should encourage investments and
output in areas of activity where Ivory Coast has an existing or potential
comparative advantage. For example, certain articles (e.g. synthetic and
artificial fibre cloth, cotton prints and automobile assembly) will face sharp
drops in their level of effective protection, while others (e.g. yarn, gray
cloth and processed agricultural goods) will receive increased protection.
These changes in the level and the structure of incentives should lead, in the
medium term, to the development of a more efficient, dynamic and competitive
Ivorian industrial sector. But in the shorter term, they will also necessitate
a difficult restructuring effort on the part of a number of firms, as they will
need to adapt their product-mix, cost structure and production process to the
new more liberal policy environment. Given the essentially open nature of the
Ivoriln economy, characterized by the predominantly private ownership of
enterprises in the sector and the absence of any significant distortion caused
by regulations such as price controls, this restructuring will to a large extent
come through market forces rather than through government intervention.
2.18      A review of the four major subsectors (textiles, wood, agro-processing
and electro-mechanical industries) carried out by the Bank and the Government in
the context of this project has indicated that this policy-induced restructuring
will require significant investments, for the financing of which little, if any,
appropriate resources are currently available domestically. Indeed, prevailing
depressed economic conditions have significantly eroded the cash-flow positions
of numerous firms, including, in extreme cases, their equity. Most firms in the
sector have thus far managed to survive the crisis, mostly by increasing their
short term indebtedness to the banking system. However, bank credits have
become increasingly difficult to obtain due to the scarcity of loanable
resources, including a significant tightening of the Central Bank rediscounting,
and indications are that unless external long-term resources are made available
to the banking system, a number of firms, which otherwise would be viable, may
not be able to secure adequate financing for undertaking the restructuring
investments that would be necessary to insure their survival.
2.19      In addition to financial resources, there appears also a need for
assistance to the sector that would help the affected firms identify and
undertake steps needed to adjust to the reformed, more open and competitive
environment. While the few large, essentially foreign-owned firms are likely to
obtain the required guidance for this purpose from their parent companies, most
locally based firms would not have easy access to such advice. The proposed



project has been designed to respond to these needs and, in addition to
providing financi,l1 assistance, it will make advisory services available to the
enterprises to facilitate and speed up the implementation of their restructuring
investments.
C. The Financial Sector
1. Policy Framework
2.20      Ivory Coast is a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA),
together with six other francophone countries (Benin, Burkina, Mali, Niger,
Senegal and Togo). The ;nion shares a common currency (CFA Franc) fully
guaranteed by France and freely convertible into the French Franc at a fixed
parity, a common Central Bank (BCEAO) and a common framework of credit and
monetary policies, which permits, however, different monetary and credit targets
for different countries. BCEAO is administered by a Governor and a Board of
Directors representi:g each member state and France. The Headquarters of BCEAO
are located in Dakar, Senegal with a national branch and a national credit
committee in each member country.
2.21      BCEAO possesses extensive regulatory powers over the financial sector
of member countries. It formulates and operates the monetary policy of the
Union, provides loans and discounts to the governments and the financial
institutions, and exercises wide powers to supervise, inspect and discipline
these institutions. It also sets the interest rate structure, monitors credit
allocation and controls credit growth. Until 1975, credit was controlled
quantitatively through BCEAO's rediscount system, which was the principal source
of liquidity for the banks in UMOA. Since then, several major reforms have been
introduced in the system to, inter alia, curtail the overwhelmirg dependence of
the financial institutions on the Central Bank, ensure better utilization of the
available resources within UMOA and encourage financing of certain sectors
considered as priority areas. Rediscounting accommodations are now no longer
automatic but determined on the basis of the applicant banks' liquidity; total
refinancing from the Central Bank is limited to 35% of an individual bank's
portfolio (excluding seasonal agriculture credits) and sectoral coefficients
have been introduced to direct a minimum portion of bank credits towards
priority sectors. Other reforms include a policy of somewhat more frequent
adjustments to the rediscount rate, creation of a regional money market and the
setting-up of a prior approval procedure for all loans in excess of a
predetermined amount (CFAF 100 million in Ivory Coast) to better monitor credit)
growth and allocation. Finally, with a view to providing a broader base for
development financing, the previous differentiation between commercial and
development banks has been eliminated, and the Central Bank is authorized to
rediscount loans with maturities of up to ten years. up from seven years
previously.
2.22      Concomitant with the above, several qualitative and quantitative
measures have been introduced to control and monitor the activities of the
financial institutions. These measures permit the Central Bank to, inter alia,
authorize opening of new institutions and branch offices, set minimum share
capital and reserve requirements, institute minimum liquidity, maximum equity



- 8 -
participation and debt equity ratios, as well as set ceilings for credit
expansion and rediscounting by individual institutions. Banking institutions
are currently required to cover at least 75% of sight liabilities by short term
assets, of which at least 3% have to be cash holdings, and to maintain a net
equity of no less than 6% of total loans. The Central Bank monitors compliance
with these requirements by means of monthly reports and has the authority to
impose disciplinary sanctions commensurate with the gravity of the infraction,
including penal sanctions if required.
2. Interest Rate Structure
2.23      All lending rates in UMOA countries are regulated by the BCEAO.  They
are uniform across the countries in the Union and are set in reference to
"normal" and "preferential" rediscount rates of the Central Bank with variable
maximum allowable spreads between the subsectors. Currently the preferential
rate applies to seasonal agriculture crop financing, small and medium scale
national enterprises (SNE) 3/ and low-cost housing. All other activities are
subject to the normal rates. Current rates, in effect since the last adjustment
in April 1983, are as follows:
Interest Rates in UNAO Countries
(in Z)
Applicable       Authorized        Authorized
Discount Rates       Spreads         Final Rates
Preferential Activities
Seasonal Crop Financing             8               1-2              9-10
SME                                 8                1-3             9-11
Housing                             8                1-3             9-11
Normal Activities
Trade                             10.5               1-5           11.5-15.5
Industry                          10.5              2-5            12.5-15.5
Other                             10.5              3-5            13.5-15.5
3/   Small and medium national enterprises are defined as those which are
managed and majority owned by nationals with outstanding credits not
exceeding CFAF 20 million (US$44,500).



2.24      These rates are applicable to all loans, irrespective of the term or
the origin of resources and do not include various authorized commissions that
are charged or top by the financial intermediaries. In addition, a service tax
(TPS) equal to 25% of the base cost is applied on all loans, thus bringing the
final effective cost of borrowings to close to 15% for preferential activities
and to 19% for all others. In light of the prevailing and projected level of
inflation in Ivory Coast, as measured by the GDP deflator (11.5% in 1984,
declining to around 5% in the medium-term), these rates are substantially
positive in real terms. Minimum interest paid on savings and deposits varies
from 3.5% to 9.5Z depending upon the amount and the term of the deposits.
Interest on large institutional deposits is negotiable but rarely exceeds the
money market deposit rate, which is currently about 11%.
3. Institutions in the Financial System
2.25      With a rapid growth in the number of institutions over the past
decade, Ivory Coast today has one of the most developed and sophisticated
financial systems in Subsaharan Africa. This system comprises 13 commercial
banks (of which five are the branches of foreign banks), six specialized banks
(the former development banks) and nine non-banking finance companies. In
addition, there is a public institution, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA).
which manages the public debt, holds and manages public deposits and mobilizes
local resources through tax free bond issues. There is also a Central
Bank-managed regional money market which permits financial institutions to place
their excess liquidity and to satisfy their short-term resource requirements.
Finally, close to a dozen insurance companies, though not a part, stricto-sensu,
of the system, also operate in Ivory Coast, in addition to a stock exchange
which trades in a limited number of securities.
2.26      At the center of the financial system are the commercial banks which,
as of end June 1984. commanded about four-fifths of both credits and deposits in
the system. Despite the recent rapid growth in their number, the four oldest
banks (SGBCI, BIAO, BICICI and SIB) still heavily dominate the system and
together account for more than two-thirds of total assets and credits. These
four banks are all affiliated to French banks and operate a dense network of
branches throughout the country in contrast to the more recently established
commercial banks which only have offices in the capital city. Contrary to the
specialized ex-development banks where Ivorian participation and management
predcminate, the commercial banks are still essentially foreign-owned and
managed, and keep close ties to their parent banks.
2.27      Of the six specialized ex-development banks in the system, two (BIDI
and COFINCI) are specialized in lending to the industrial sector, catering
mainly to the needs of larger projects, while one (CCI) is a multipurpose bank
concentrating on lending to the small, mainly Ivorian-owned industries. The
fourth (BNDA) focuses on mobilizing rural savings and on providing financial and
technical assistance to the agriculture sector, while the last two (BNEC and
BICT) concentrate on credits for housing. The Government has played an
important role in the establishment of all but one (COFINCI) of these banks,
taking controlling interests in BNDA, BNEC and CCI and minority holdings in the
others. It has also been actively involved in their operations by guaranteeing



- 10 -
their external borrowings and appointing the chief executives in all but two
(COFINCI and BICT). Finally, both BIDI and CCI have benefited from Bank lines
of credit for financing of large and small industry and hotel projects in the
Ivory Coast.
4. Industrial Finance
2.28      Despite the existence of specialized ex-development banks, commercial
banks have always played an important role in financing the various Droductive
sectors of the economy. They have also been a major source of both working
capital and investment finance to industry. This is due in large part to
policies of the Central Bank which have encouraged lending to priority sectors
including industry, by providing generous rediscounting facilities and more
recently by instituting minimum sectoral lending ratios. 4/   Prior to the 1975
reforms (para. 2.21) rediscounting from the Central Bank, both for short and
medium term credits, was available on a quasi automatic basis, thus providing a
strong incentive to commercial banks to extend medium term loans in addition to
their normal short term working capital financing. Subsequent elimination of
this automatic rediscounting privilege could have deterred the commercial banks
from increasing their term lending, especially since within the prevailing
sectoral ratios a term breakdown is not imposed. However, sustained by a large
flow of deposits, principally from state companies, commercial banks continued
to expand their term credits through the late seventies and early eighties.
Since then, however, declining deposits and tight rediscount facilities,
reflecting depressed economic conditions, have significantly constrained their
lending ability, particularly with respect to term credits. Commercial banks
remain nevertheless a major source of such financing and accounted for almost
63% of total outstanding term credit to the economy at end June 1984. 5/   Term
credits by the commercia'l banks, however, rarely carry maturities of more than
seven years and are mostly directed towards the needs of well-established
corporate borrowers.
2.29      Though the specialized banks also tend to give priority to this type
of clientele, they serve the needs of lesser known emerging businesses better
and are the principal source of institutional equity finance and support to
Ivorian-owned small and medium enterprises. They are also the principal
beneficiaries of external long term development resources and thus the
predominant source for loans exceeding ten years. In an effort to better
compete with commercial banks and broaden their resource base, several
specializcd banks in recent years have begun to collect public deposits and make
short term credits. However, the larger share (60%) of their activities is
4/   Total credit outstanding in the economy for the period 1980-83 and the
share of Central Bank refinancing of this credit are shown in Annexes
2-4 and 2-5.
5/   Summary balance sheets of the financial institutions for the years
1980-84, including the relative shares of the commercial and specialized
banks in credit outstanding to the economy, are shown in Annex 2-6.



- 11 -
still centered around term lending, the funding for which is to a large extent
dependent upon rediscounting from the Central Bank and external lines of credit.
2.30      The capital market in Ivory Coast, in contrast to the money market,
which has played an important role in meeting the short term placement and
liquidity requirements of the regional banking system, has not been a source of
any significant medium or long-term finance. At most, the stock exchange has
permitted a limited growth in the share of Ivorian ownership in a few
predominantly foreign owned firms, but It has not allowed any mobilization of
long-term capital to speak of for the industry. While the growth of the capital
market in the longer-term is desirable, if only to broaden equity ownership
among Ivorians, given the size of the Ivorian economy, such growth is not likely
to occur quickly.
5. Prospects and Constraints
2.31      After a relatively lengthy period of rapid development during which it
was able to -beet the needs of the growing economy, the Ivorian financial system
recently encountered considerable liquidity problems. Depressed economic
conditions, coupled with the sharp decline in government revenues, led to
substantial public sector deficits and arrears, while major cutbacks in public
expenditures and shrinking domestic markets resulted in increasing difficulties
for the corporate sector to meet its debt servicing obligations to the banking
system. These adverse developments, together with declining growth in deposits,
significantly curtailed the lending ability of the banking system and exerted
considerable pressure on its liquidity and profitability positions. Two of the
major commercial banks had to increase their share capital, with the help of
foreign shareholders, while one'has undergone a major management restructuring.
Likewise, following a review of specialized institutions by the Bank in April
1984, one such institution (BIDI) has undergone a major financial and management
restructuring while another one, specializing in lending to SME (CCI), will
probably need to be restructured. 61
2.32      The tight liquidity position of the banking system is clearly
reflected by the share of the total credit outstanding refinanced by the Central
Bank, which rose from an average of about 20% in the seventies and 30% in 1980
to 37% as of June 30, 1984. To meet their growing liquidity requirements, a
number of commercial banks had increasing recourse to their foreign parent
banks, but funds from this source are now reportedly close to exhaustion.
Likewise, as the rediscount ceiling is being reached for the banking system as a
whole, Central Bank financing has also now become very tight. While the
liquidity crisis appears to have eased in recent months on account of a good
crop year, and can be expected to keep on improving further in the short-term as
a result of repayment of Government arrears, initiated under the ongoing standby
arrangement with the IMF and the proposed Bank loan for this project, some
changes in the prevailing policies would be needed in the medium-term to make
6/   Both BIDI and CCI have been the beneficiaries of Bank funds in the past
(para. 2.34).



- 12 -
the financial system more responsive to the needs of the economy and reduce its
excessive dependence upon the Central Bank.
2.33      In the course of its review of the financial sector in March and
November 1984, the Bank has identified a number of such changes, discussions on
some of which have already been initiated with the Government in the context of
this project.  The approval of BCEAO, the regional Central Bank, is required,
however, for the most part before they can be implemented in the Ivory Coast.
These include the fixing of the level and structure of interest rates, the
application of preferential lending rates for certain activities, and the
inability of banks to pass on the foreign exchange risk to the final borrowers.
A review of the financial sector in the Union, scheduled for the second half of
FY1986, will lead to specific recommendations on these regional issues for
discussion with BCEAO. In the meantime, the passibility of initiating action on
some other issues, namely the need to eliminate or reduce the service tax on
interest payments, the need to strengthen banking inspection and supervision,
the possibility of establishing a domestic market in securities, and the need
for new mechanisms to finance exports will be pursued in the context of the
proposed third SAL to Ivory Coast.
D. Bank Strategy for Industrial Finance
2.34      The Bank's involvement in industrial finance in Ivory Coast started in
1975 when a line of credit of US$5.6 million was made available to CCI for
financing of Ivorian-owned SHE projects. This line was soon followed (in
October 1975) by a traditional DFC loan (US$8 million) to BIDI for financing of
medium to large scale industries. The Bank has since provided two more lines of
credit totaling US$ 23.9 million for tourism development (1975, 1979) and a
second SNE line of US$12.6 million (1979), all to CCI. 7/ Counittments from IFC
have totalled US$13.6 million, consisting of three operations with industrial
corporations, one with an agricultural plantation and two (equity participation)
with BIDI.
2.35      The Bank's past lending strategy in the Ivory Coast was largely aimed
at the promotion and strengthening of the above two specialized banks, although
resource transfer, employment generation and promotion of Ivorian-owned SME were
also important objectives. Project Performance Audits on the first two industry
loans to CCI and BIDI concluded among other points that these objectives were
only partially met, and that while Bank funds resulted in assisting about 100
enterprises, including 85 SMEs, achievements with respect to institution
building have not been very satisfactory. This was partly due to management
weaknesses, but it also reflected the marginal role of these institutions in
term financing to industry and their increasing emphasis on diversification of
7/   Except for the second SME and Tourism lines, all other lines of credit are
fully committed. As of June 15, 1985, committments and disbursements under
the second SME line amounted to 77% and 51X respectively and under the
Second Tourism line to 86X and 67% respectively.



- 13 -
activities to better :ompete with commercial banks following the Central Bank
policy reforms in 1975. As mentioned earlier (para. 2.31), following a major
restructuring, BIDI has now been financially rehabilitated and a strategy for
its future operations is being prepared. At the Government's request, the Bank
has agreed to assist BIDI in this respect. The Bank is also closely monitoring
developments in CCI and following the findings of a portfolio and organizational
audit, currently underway, it will assist the Government in designing and
implementing a rehabilitation program for this institution.
2.36      In 1981, the Bank decided to review its operational program for the
industrial sector in the Ivory Coast and carried out a study of the sector with
a view to defining a strategy for future Bank lending to industry. This study 8/
indicated that while the Bank's past lending to individual DFCs had achieved the
resource transfer objective, its impact on the industrial sector as a whole had
been limited and that there was now a need to address major deficiencies and
distortions in the prevailing industrial policies that were increasingly
inhibiting efficient growth in the sector. This study, together with a
financial sector review, 9/ provided the basis for an intensification, under SAL
I, of the dialogue with the Government on the key issues facing the sector.
SAL II provided the vehicle for reaching an agreement on the content and the
timetable for implementing the comprehensive program of industrial policy
reforms described earlier in this report (para. 2.11 through 2.15). The Bank's
strategy for the industrial and financial sectors over the coming years will be
to continue supporting the full implementation of this program and to seek,
jointly with BCEAO and the Government, reforms in the financial sector that
would improve the efficiency of resource mobilization and allocation, and result
in strengthening the institutional performance of the banking system as a whole.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
3.01      The project originates from the Bank's extensive sector work in Ivory
Coast and is a logical complement to the program of industrial policy reforms
being implemented by the Government under SAL II. Accordingly, its principal
objectives are linked to these reforms and consist primarily of providing
financial and technical support to ease the adjustment of potentially viable
enterprises to the reformed policy environment. Support to new industries,
which are likelr to materialize in response to the modified incentives
framework, would not be excluded, but, unlike past Bank DFC operations,
8/   "Ivory Coast:  Industrial Sector Memorandum", Report No. 3447-IVC, April
16, 1981.
9/   "Finance in the Development of the Ivory Coast", Report No. 3113-IVC,
December 31, 1981.



- 14 -
promotion of new activities would remain a second priority. Other objectives
sought by the project are to assist the development of manufactured exports,
support further growth of term lending to industry and build up economic
appraisal cnpabilities within the Ivorian banking system. The onlending
arrangements for the proposed project are designed with the latter objectives in
mind and consist of making funds available through the Central Bank to the
banking system as a whole, rather than through a single DFC.
B. Project Description
3.02      In line with the above objectives, the project would consist of a loan
in the amount of US$30 million to the Ivory Coast Government to finance the
following components:
(i)  a line of credit to finance investment and permanent working
capital requirements of potentially economically viable
existing manufacturing enterprises in need of restructuring,
rehabilitation or expansion, as well as for new projects
(US$28.5 million);
(ii)  establishment, within the Ministry of Industry, of an
Industrial Advisory Services Unit to assist enterprises in
identifying and undertaking the steps needed to adjust to
the SAL II industrial policy reforms (US$0.8 million);
(iii)  broad product identification, marketing and/or other studies
to help develop exports of wood, textile and other
manufactured products (US$0.25 million);
(iv)  advisory services to assist the Central Bank in
administering the line of credit (US$0.2 million); and
(v) consultancy services to train the staff of the Central and
participating banks in economic analysis of sub-projects
(US$0.1 million).
1.  The Line of Credit
3.03      Institutional arrangements:  As mentioned earlier, in departure from
the traditional approach of lending through a single DFC, the line of credit in
this project would be made available under an apex arrangement to all sound
banking institutions in the Ivorian financial system. The national branch of
the Central Bank in Abidjan, acting in the capacity of Executive Secretary of a
Loan Administration Committee to be set up in the context of this project, would
act as the apex institution and administer the line of credit on account of the
Government. ln view of its extensive role in regulating the financial sectol,
including refinancing of a significant share of both short and medium-term
industrial loans, the Central Bank is the most suitable institution to play this
role. However, since the Central Bank is not a national institution, a Loan
Administration Committee, comprised of high level officials from the Ministries
of Industry and Finance, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement - CAA (the debt



- 15 -
servicing agency) and the Central Bank, would be established. The main function
of this Committee, which would be chaired by the Ministry of Industry with the
Central Bank acting as its Executive Secretary, would be to review and approve
subprojects, much as the Board of an institution. In its capacity as the
Secretary of the Committee, the Central Bank would be given sufficient
day-to-day authority to effectively carry out the functions of an apex
institution, including the authority to receive, review and seek additional
information on all subproject applications, determine the eligibility of both
subprojects and participating banks, based upon its own creditworthiness and/or
other project related criteria and, more generally, to perform all functions
required of it with respect to monitoring the performance of subprojects and
intermediaries financed under the line of credit. The establishment of the Loan
Administration Committee and the sigaing of a protocol between the Government
and the Central Bank, defining the functions and responsibilities of the latter
as the Executive Secretary of the Committee, both under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, are conditions of loan effectiveness.
3.04      Eligible Intermediaries:  Although in practice the line of credit is
likely to be mostly used by the four major commercial and one or two specialized
banks (referred to in paras. 2.26 and 2.27), all Central Bank regulated and
supervised banks customarily involved in industrial financing, which are in
compliance with the Central Bank creditworthiness criteria shown in Annex 3-1.
would be eligible for financing under the line of credit. Based on these
criteria, which are adequate to insure that only financially sound institutions
are eligible, only about ten of the nineteen banks in the system would currently
qualify. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these criteria would
be strictly applied by the Central Bank at the time of each subproject
submission and that their observance by each bank would be reviewed periodically
-with the Bank during supervision missions. This approach, rather than the one
consisting of establishing a list of eligible banks from the outset, appears
more appropriate in the current situation of the financial sector in Ivory Coast
as certain banks, which would subsequently become suitable intermediaries for
channeling the Bank funds, may not, pending their consolidation, qualify
immediately. The proposed approach would also appear to be more conducive
towards securing the widest participation of the banking network, consistent
with the prevailing UMOA policy of expanding the involvement of both specialized
and commercial banks in term lending to the priority sectors. Finally, it
should also considerably facilitate and broaden the access to the line of credit
by industrial clients of all banks.
3.05      Eligible Beneficiaries:  Since a major objective of the proposed
project is to support the adjustment efforts of the largest number of existing
enterprises to the new policy environment, all manufacturing firms would be
eligible for financing under the line of credit provided, however, that:
(a) their principal activities are in one of the subsectors affected
by the policy reform;



- 16 -
(b) they meet the Central Bank's normal creditworthiness
requirements; 10/
(c) the restructuring programs submitted by them are technically.
financially and economically sound and clearly demonstrate that
these firms have a good potential for adjustment including the
ability, after implementing the proposed restructuring program,
to generate an economic rate of return of no less than 10% on
overall investments and no less than 15% on incremental
Investments to be financed under the line of credit; and
(d) the owners of these firms are able to demonstrate their
commitment to the proposed program by, inter alia, securing any
additional equity and/or short-term debt consolidation that may
be required for the firm to show (i) a debt equity ratio of no
more than 3:1, (Ii) a debt servicing ratio of no less than 1.5,
and (iii) a current ratio of at least 1.2, with all the above
ratios being calculated on the basis of the firm's total debts,
inclusive of those to be incurred in the framework of the
proposed restructuring program.
3.06      The above requirements would also apply to new enterprises, except
that in their case a debt equity ratio of no more than 3:2 would be authorized,
and the incremental economic rate of return of at least 15X would, at the same
time, constitute the overall minimum economic rate of return. This
differentiation in the eligibility criteria between the two categories of
enterprises would emphasize the priority accorded by the project to existing
firms and would also ensure high economic rates of return on all new
investments.
3.07      Subloan Processing and Administration:  Processing procedures under
the project would to a large extent be patterned upon existing Central Bank
rediscounting practices. Currently, most loans proposed to be made by banks
need prior approval from the Central Bank even if Central Bank refinancing for
such loans is not sought. In line with this procedure, all subloans proposed to
be financed under the line of credit would be submitted by the sponsoring banks
to the Central Bank. The Central Bank would review the submissions in
accordance with the Project criteria and its existing credit regulations and
would then forward eligible applications, together with its recommendations, to
the Committee (para. 3.03) for review and approval.  A copy of these
applications would also be sent simultaneously to the Bank, although its formal
approval would only be sought after that of the Committee.  The Committee would
have three weeks to act, beyond which the subprojects would be considered as
approved by the Committee.  In view of the involvement of a large number of
untested intermediaries, the first three subprojects from each intermediary
would be subject to Bank review. Thereafter, assuming satisfactory standards,
10/ The Central Bank's creditworthiness criteria applicable to beneficiary
enterprises are shown in Annex 3-1.



- 17 -
an appropriate free limit per lutermediary, not exceeding CFAF 200 million
(US$445,000) per subproject, would be instituted If deemed appropriate by the
Bank. To ensure smooth project implementatlon and efficient administration of
the line of credit, a special unit within the Credit Department of the Central
Bank would be establishod (para. 3.16).
3.08      All subproject submissions to the Central Bank would be in accordance
with the Bank's normal standards for IDF subprojects and would include an
economic analysis. To ensure quality and consistency In appraisal in terms of
both content and format, a project evaluation manual and a suitable appraisal
formst, now belng prepared with the Bank's assistance under its Technical
Assistance Loan to the Ivory Coast, would be made available to the particlpating
banks as soon as possible, but no later than loan effectiveness. In addition,
periodic seminars to train the staff of the Central and participating banks in
economic appraisal techniques will be funded under the project (para. 3.18).
Issuance by the Government through the Central Bank of a detailed circular,
satisfactory to the Bank, outlining the terms and conditions for the use of the
line of credit by the banking system would be a condition of oan effectiveness.
3.09      Subloan Amounts:  All subprojects, Irrespective of t air size, would
be eligible for financing under the line of credit, subje   -  the criteria
outlined in para. 3.05 and 3.06. However, in order to ensure that the proceeds
of the credit line are spread among an adequately large number of beneficiaries,
the maximum amount of financing made available under the line of credit to a
single beneficiary would normally be limited to CFAF 800 million (US$1.8
million). The line would finance investments in fixed assets and permanent
working capital subject to a ceiling of 602 of the total subproject cost, the
latter representing the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange costs.
3.10      Onlending Terms and Conditions:  The Bank loan, made to the
Government, would be on prevailing country terms, i.e., 20 years including five
years of grace. Funds onlent under the line of credit to participating banks
would be tn local currency, with maturities based on a flexible schedule
corresponding to the amortization schedules of subloans to final beneficiaries.
Subloans to beneficiaries would range from a minimum of two to a maximum of 15
years, inclusive of grace periods ranging from one to three years. Since the
funding made available under the line of credit would not be a part of the
normal Central Bank refinancing facility, it would not be counted as such in the
determination of individual bank rediscount ceilings. Also, unlike the Central
Bank rediscount facilities, it would be available to the banks for the full term
of the subloans. 11/   These differences between the normal Central Bank
facilities and the line of credit are expected to provide a significant
incentive to the participating banks in making term credits more easily
available to their industrial clients.
11/ These arrangements do not conflict with existing Central Bank regulations
or the stabilization program with the IMF.



- 18 -
3.11      Under Subsidiary Relending Agreements. satisfactory to the Bank, funds
under the line of credit would be on lent to particlpating banks at the floating
rate equal to the Bank rate plus a commitent fee of 0.752 an. a comniasior of
22 p.a. both to be pamsed on to final borrowers. The commission of 22 wot%:d
accrue to the Goverrment in compensation for Its asmumption of the exchange
risk. In line with its current practice of not charging any fees for various
services rendered to the Government, the Central Bank would not retain any
spread for Itself. Participating banks would be authorized to pass on the float
and retain a fixed spread of 3.0%. thus bringing the final cost to borrowers
equal to the IBRD rate plus 5.02 pa. Passing on the foreign exchange risk to
the final borrowers, in accordance with the Bank's normal practice, is not
feasible under this project on account of the prevalling Central Bank
regulations which do not allow banking institutions in the Went Africa Monetay
Union to make foreign currency denominated loans.
3.12      Based on the Bank's prevailing lending rate (8.82?), the rAte of
interest applicable under the line of credit to final borrowers would cu. :ently
amount to about 13.82 p.a.  i .e., 1.7 percentage polnts lover than the BCEAO
imposed ceiling of 15.52. This situation could, however. change in the future
in the event that the Bank rate exceeds 10.52 or the maximum athorized (UMOA)
rate is lowered. Should thls event occur in the future, the Government has
agreed that it would take such steps as necessary to ensure continued
utilization of the line of credit in light of the prevailing credit regulatlons.
including for instance seeking a waiver from the monetary authorlties In regard
to the interest rate ceiling.
2. Industrial Advisorv Services Unit
3.13      With a view to easing and speeding up their adjustment to the reformed
policy environment, assistance through a special unit would be provided to the
existing enterprises under the project. This unit would function essentially In
an advisory capacity to industrialists, assisting them In (i) evaluating the
impact of the reform on their individual firms; (1i) carrving out a preliminary
diagnosis of the firm's weaknesses and strengths; (iiI) Identifying broad areas
of efficiency improvement; (iv) reviewing the need and potential for physical
and financial restructuring; and (v) recommending, on a preliminary basin, the
type and extent of restructuring required so as to improve the performance and
profitability of the firms, including adequate staff training programs to reduce
the costly dependence upon expatriate staff. The Unit would not itself carry
out the expert detailed studies that may be required in certaln cases to
formulate firm-specific restructuring and/or rehabilitation plans. Instead,
acting in a referral capacity, it would assist industrialists in Identifying
suitable consultants to carry out this work and in reviewing their
recommendations. Likewise, the Unit would not provide the assistance required
to implement such plans but would help identify suitable consultants to that
effect. The Unit would also assist industrialists, when necessary, In preparing
their loan applications for restructuring purposes so as to facilitate securing
of financing from the banks. However, prior assistance and review by the Unit
of proposed investment programs would be optional and would not be a condition
for securing financing under the line of credit, as some larger firms would have
the required in-house capacity to that effect. The advice and assistance of the



- 19 -
Unit would be available to all industrial firms, not only to those seeking
financial assistance under the project.
3.14      The Unit would be located in the Ministry of Industry and would, for
its day-to-iay affairs, report directly to the Director of Cabinet of tne
Minister of Industry. It would be staffed by a team of two highly qualified and
broadly experienced experts in the areas of marketing, organization, financial
and physical restructuring, and two or three suitable counterparts. The total
cost of 7 man-year advising services, including six man-year services of the two
resident experts and one man-year of short-term consultancies, would be financed
by the Bank Loan but all other costs, including those relating to the day-to-day
administration of the Unit and those connected with the services of the
counterparts and support staff, would be covered by the Government. Recovery of
these costs from the enterprises in the early phase does not appear feasible, as
the Unit would first need to demonstrate the quality and usefulness of its
services to the beneficiaries. However, the feasibility of recovering these
costs would be discussed with the Government following two years of operations.
3. Studies
3.15      In order to lay the groundwork for the development of Ivorian
manufactured exporte to nontraditional markets, in particular of wood products,
it will be necessary to conduct some broad product identification, marketing and
other studies. Accordingly, funds for undertaking such studies, including one
aimed at determining the feasibility of setting up an export credit guarantee
scheme, would be provided under the project. The Ministry of Industry, through
its Advisory Unit (para. 3.13), would be responsible for managing these studies
and for establishing the detailed terms of reference in consultation with the
Association of Industrialists (Syndicat des Industriels). These studies would
be carried out by qualified consultants, whose services would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The findings and recommendations of these studies would make an important
contribution towards increasing the capacity utilization of a number of existing
firms which have been severely affected by the shrinkages in domestic and
traditional markets. In light of the recently established export subsidy
scheme, these studies should also assist other firms, that were until now
domestically oriented, in identifying and developing their sales on export
warkets.
4. Advisory Services to the Central Bank
3.16      As indicated earlier (para. 3.07), the Credit Department of the
Central Bank, in conjunction with its credit monitoring activities, currently
reviews most credit applications made to the banking system, and the same
procedure would be followed under the proposed project. However, in view of the
need for careful review of the various restructuring programs for which
financing would be sought under the line of credit, and in order to properly
istitute and closely monitor the onlending and subloan processing mechanisms
under the line of credit, the Central Bank would set up a special unit within
this Department. The broad functions of this Unit would be to (i) provide
guidance to the participating banks in selecting eligible subprojects
appropriate for financing under the line of credit; (ii) coordinate the subloan



- 20 -
processing work between the banks, the Industrial Advisory Services Unit and the
Ministry of Industry; (iii) ensure application of uniform standards for subloan
appraisals; (iv) carry out the review of subprojects submitted under the line
of credit prior to their submission to the Bank; (v) ensure liaison between the
World Bank and the sponsoring banks on matters related to such subprojects;
(vi) supervise and coordinate the disbursements under the credit line, including
collection and forwarding of supporting documentation; and (vii) generally
carry out all tasks related to the efficient utilization of the line of credit.
This would also include the collection of periodic reports from the
participating banks on the performnce of the subprojects and on the activities
of the banks themselves. Finally, the Unit would provide such guidance, as
necessary, to the banks in adequately carrying out subproject supervision, in
particular of problem projects.
3.17      Given the relative unfamiliarity of the Central Bank with the World
Bank's lending procedures and practices, and with a view to assisting the unit
in formulating and instituting suitable procedures for carrying out the above
functions, about one and a half years service of a senior advisor conversant
with such practices, and with develQpment financing in general, would be
provided under the project. The Central Bank would make available a suitable
counterpart and an appropriate number of other officers to staff the Unit.
Since the Central Bank would not receive any spread for administering the line
of credit (para. 3.10), the services of the advisor would be made available
without any cost to the Central Bank and be borne by the Government. The
Central Bank would assume all the other administrative costs related to the
operation of the Unit.
5. Consultancy Services for Economic Analysis
3.18      In line with the broad objectives of the project and with a view to
ensuring that all subprojects submitted under the line of credit include an
adequate analysis of economic costs and benefits, a program to train the staff
of the Central and the participating banks will be initiated under the project.
Consisting of periodic group seminars and assistance to individual banks in the
preparation of subproject appraisal reports, this program would be carried out
by an experienced consultant in cooperation with the Bankers' Association
(Association Professionnelle des Banques - APB) under the supervision of the
Central Bank. The proposed arrangement has been discussed with and is fully
acceptable to the banks.
C. Project Costs and Financing
3.19      Given the predominantly private sector ownership o- manufacturing
activity in Ivory Coast and pending finalization of restructuring programs by
firms affected by the policy reform, it does not appear feasible at this time to
establish a comprehensive list of all eligible investments that are likely to
seek financing under the line of credit over the next three years (the proposed
loan commitment period). However, a limited survey carried out by the Ministry
of Industry in March 1985 indicates that investments totalling some
US$150 million are cur:ently being planned by the 51 major firms in the sector
(Annex 3-2). Term loan demand for industry, on the other hand, has averaged



- 21 -
about US$125 million p.a. over the past two years (Annex 3-3), despite the
depressed state of the economy and the uncertainty over the policy environment.
Now that the reforms have become effective, this level of demand can reasonably
be expected to increase in the future as the firms will begin to implement their
policy-induced restructuring investments. While the supply of locally available
resources, including substantial rediscounting from the Central Bank, was
adequate in the past to finance this demand, it appears unlikely that under the
prevailing situation of tight liquidity and curtailed rediscount facilities the
banking system would be able to domestically secure all the resources needed to
adequately meet both the short and the term credit needs of the sector in the
future. The proposed Bank line of credit of US$28.5 million, together with a
possible similar line of US$13 million equivalent from the European Investment
Bank (of which US$3 million would be for equity participations), would make an
important contribution towards partially filling this gap.
3.20      As mentioned above, while a list of specific investments to be
financed under the line of credit cannot be established at this time, the Bank
loan, on an aggregated basis, is expected to benefit manufacturing investments
totalling some US$47.5 million over the next three years. Total project costs
based on this level of investments and including the technical assistance
component (US$1.75 million) are estimated at US$49.25 million, inclusive of
taxes of US$4.9 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$29.7 million or 60% of total project costs. The Bank loan, representing 61%
of the rct_l and 68% of ne'- costs, would cover 100% of the foreign and about 2%
of local costs. Other Ji.ical costs would be covered by the Government, the
Central Bank, and contributions from the final borrowers. A summary breakdown
of project costs and financing is provided in the Loan and Project Summary and
in Annex 3-4.
D. Project Impleme.-ation
1. Implementing Agencies
3.21      The Government, through a Loan Administration Committee to be
established in the framework of this loan, would be the implementation agency
for this project. However, as described in para. 3.03, the Central Bank, in its
capacity as the Executive Secretary to this Committee, would, through its
special unit, act as the apex institution for the administration of the line of
credit. It would also be responsible for the bank staff training component.
Responsibility for administering the Industrial Advisory Services Unit and
commissioning the various studies financed under the project would lie with the
Ministry of Industry.
2. Monitoring
3.22      The sponsoring banks would be responsible for supervising the
subprojects financed by them and would be required to submit to the Central Bank
semi-annual progress reports on these subprojects. The Central Bank would
review these reports and make available a summary to the Bank. It would also
submit, on a semi-annual basis, the summary of financial reports that it
routinely requires from the banking institutions and, on an annual basis, their



- 22 -
financial statements and audit reports. The special unit within the Central
Bank would be the focal point for ensuring compliance with the above
requirements by the banks and for onward transmittal of the reports to the Bank.
Until such time as all the functions expected of the Central Bank are
satisfactorily carried out, the Bank would closely monitor the performance of
this Unit and provide assistance as appropriate.
3. Procurement
3.23      Essentially, procurement of equipment and goods under the credit
component would not be suitable for international competitive bidding, given
that loan proceeds are expected to finance predominantly restructuring
operations involving partial replacement or upgrading of equipment and spare
parts, with a relatively small number of operations involving new ventures. For
the latter, maximum possible Bank financing would be limited to US$1.8 million
equivalent.  Given the expected small percentage of loan proceeds financing such
new investments, procurement for both restructuring and new investments would be
in accordance with commercial practices. Participating banks would be required
to ensure that the goods and services to be purchased by final borrowers are
suitable and reasonably priced, normally by ascertaining that price quotations
from at least three main sources of supply have been solicited. Compliance with
this requirement by the participating banks will be monitored by the Central
Bank. Procurement of services for the technical assistance, consultancies and
studies would be in accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
4. Disbursements
3.24      The estimated disbursement schedule, based upon the standard
disbursement profile for Bank-wide IDF projects, is shown in Annex 3-5. The
closing date for the proposed loan would be June 30, 1992. Disbursements under
the line of credit will be made for 100% of total expenditures which represents
the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange cost and not more than 60% of
the total subproject cost. Disbursements for technical assistance will be made
at 100% of total expenditures. Full documentation will be required for the
technical assistance component; statement of expenditures will be used for line
of credit disbursements.
3.25      In order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account (revolving fund)
of CFA francs 1.5 billion (equivalent to US$3 million), representing about 3
months expenditures, would be established in CAA. All expenditures would be
financed out of the Special Account unless prior approval is obtained from the
Bank. To ensure timely payment to participating banks for eligible
expenditures, assurances were obtained at negotiations that CAA would pay all
disbursement requests within five days after request for such payment by the
Central Bank. Tne Special Account would be replenished by the Bank on a monthly
basis, or when the Special Account balance is reduced by half, wnichever comes
first. The Special Account would be subject to audit procedures and auditors
acceptable to the Bank.



- 23 -
E. Benefits and Risks
3.26      The proposed project is expected to yield substantial benefits to
Ivory Coast. First, by making a package of financial and technical assistance
available to the enterprises, the project would considerably ease and speed-up
the implementation, at the firm level, of the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program. Second, the line of credit provided under the project would go a long
way towards making available the term resources that are currently badly needed
by banks to finance the restructuring needs of firms affected by the policy
reform. Third, the proposed onlending mechanism for channelling the funds to
the banking system as a whole, rather than through a single intermediary, would
not only permit a gradual expansion in the number of intermediaries having
access to Bank funds, but also help strengthen the capacity for development
lending in a larger number of institutions, including the commercial banks.
Fourth, the studies proposed to be undertaken in the framework of the proposed
project should make an important contribution towards assisting the firms in
developing their exports to nontraditional markets. Finally, by introducing
bi-annually variable interest rates in what has essentially been a fixed rate
system, the project would constitute an important first step towards bringing
about other improvements in the financial policies.
3.27      The project is, in an important sense, a pilot effort, designed to
chart the way for future Bank lending to Ivorian industry through the banking
system as a whole rather than through a single DFC. All such new efforts entail
certain risks. In this case, a major risk stems from the relative unfamiliarity
of the Ivorian banking system with the Bank's requirements and procedures which
could hinder smooth project implementation   The project seeks to minimize this
risk by including advisory services to the '.entral Bank and providing a training
program for the appraisal staff of parcitirTating banks. An additional risk is
that the loan demand for investments, particularly for policy-induced
restructuring, may not materialize ar, rapidly as expected, partly due to
currently depressed economic conditions and partly on account of the uncertain
reponse thus far to the program of reforms by a number of firms. The Industrial
Advisory Services Unit proposed to be set-up under the project should, however,
help alleviate this risk. Furthermore, the proposed loan amount has taken this
risk into account, representing no more than about one-tenth of the level of
term cred    likely to be required by the industrial sector over the next three
years.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During loan negotiations. agreements were reached on the following
matters.
With the Government on:
(i) the institutional arrangements, including the establishment
of a Loan Administration Committee with the Central Bank as
its Executive Secretary under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.03);



-24-
(ii)  the onlending terms and conditions, including the assumption
by the Government of the exchange risk on the line of credit
against a fee of 2Z p.a.(para. 3.10 and 3.11);
(iii) the undertaking by the Government to take such steps as
necessary to ensure continued utilization of the line of
credit in light of the prevailing credit regulations,
including for instance seeking a waiver from the monetary
authorities in regard to the interest rate ceiling (para.
3.12);
(iv)  the terms and conditions for setting up the Industrial
Advisory Services Unit (para. 3.13 and 3.14);
(v) the terms and conditions for setting up the revolving fund
(para 3.25).
With the Central Bank on:
Mi) the institutional arrangements (para. 3.03);
(ii)  the eligibility of intermediaries and beneficiaries (para
3.04, 3.05 and 3.06);
(ii4) the subloan processing and administration procedures
(para. 3.07 and 3.08);
(iv)  the onlending terms and conditions (para. 3.10 and 3.11);
(v) the arrangements for administering the line of credit,
including the setting-up of a special unit and the
procurement of advisory services to assist this unit (paras.
3.16 and 3.17);
(vi)  the arrangements for training of the participating banks'
staff in economic analysis of subprojects (para. 3.18);
(vii) the arrangements for project monitoring and subproject
procurement (paras. 3.22 and 3.23).



- 25 -
4.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be:
(i) the implementation of the SAL II reforms for the industrial
sector, substantially in accordance with the agreed schedule
(para. 2.12);
(ii) the establishment of the Loan Administration Committee and
the signing of a protocol between the Government and the
Central Bank, both under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.03);
(iii) the issuance by the Government through the Central Bank of a
detailed circular outlining the terms and conditions for the
use of the line of credit by the banking system (para 3.08);
(iv) the issuance by the Government of a project evaluation
manual to the banking system (para. 3.08);
4.03      Conditions of Disbursement would be:
(v) for each participating bank, the signing of a Subsidiary
Relending Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.11).
4.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$30 million equivalent to the
Republic of Ivory Coast.
WAPID
June 1985



IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTRIBUTION OF MANUFACTURING TO THE IVORIAN ECONOMY
(CFAF million)
1979                   1980                    1981                   1982                   1983
Amount    %            Amount    %            Amount    %             Amount    S            Amount    %
Value Added by Subsector
Food and Tobacco                   93,201   44            87,247   39             98,512   43            96,315   40            311,425   44
Textiles and Leather               34,169   16            43,142   19             46,527   20            50,371   21             55,445   22
Wood Processing                    16,491    8             20,606    9            17,488    8            15,648    7             15,332    6
Chemical                           23,712   11             22,090   10            19,744    9            23,970   10             20,648    8
Rubber                              5,372    3              6,276    3             6,517    3              5,844    2             3,212    1
Construction Materials              6,186    3              6,708    3             5,789    3              6,408    3             6,084    2          1
Electro-Mechanical                 28,005   13             31,816   14            32,488   14             33,532   14            33,655   13         N
Other                               6,758    3              7,731    3             7,596    3              7.111    3             9,271    4
TOTAL                             213.894  100                     100           234,661  100        2      g19 100             255,072  100
Investments by Subsector
Food and Tobacco                   94,744   55            44,505   38             28,238   26            18,304   23             17,437   34
Textiles and Leather                6,688    4              5,033    4             5,239    5              7,424    9             7,096   14
Wood Processing                     2,404    1              3,134    3             3,689    3              2,080    3             2,668    5
Chemical                           14,028    8            51,448   44             58,058   54            39,128   49             14,883   29
Rubber                             44,455   26              6,052    5             5,948    5              5,581    7             2,605    5
Construction Materials              3,141    2              1,487    1               748    1              2,437    3               464    1
Electro-Mechanical                  4,550    3              4,577    4             4,871    5              3,533    4             3,988    8
Other                               1,262    1             -1,011    1             1,401    1              1.029    1             1,441    3
TOTAL                   -                   100                4 100                        00            79.51600  00582  100
I0 
Percentages may not add up due to rounding.



lvWRi COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVEWPNTM PIOJECT
COt4TRIBlT!ION OF MWA1I1LJFAC1MJUO TO THE IVORAN ECON_OMY
(continued)
1979                   1980                   1981                   1982                   1983
Number    %            Number    .            Number    S            Number    S            Number   9
EXD10Yment by Subsector
Food and Tobacco                  38,088   44            42,193   45            42,264   47            42,365   48             38,731   50
Textiles and Leather              15,272   18            15,608   17             15,027   16            15,178   17            12,815   17
Wood Processing                    9,087   10             9,423   10              8,119    9             7,595    9             7,2I     9
Chemical                           4,319    5             4,780    5             4,480    4              4,570    5             3,869    5
Rubber                             7,510    9             7,944    9              7,921    8             8,355    9            4,323    6
Construction Haterials             1,676    2             1,442    2              1,235    2               931    2               847    3
Electro-Mechanical                 8,807   10             9,251   10             8,640    9              7,759    9             7,122    9
Other                              1,940    2              2,098    2             2.003    2             2.074    2             2.222    3
TOTAL                             86,699  100           292.39  100              9.68.9  100            8.2   100              7707   100
Amount    9            Amount    9            Amount   S.            Amount    %            Amount    S
Sales by Subsector (CFAF s,llon)
Food and Tobacco                 207,439   37           222,602   33           260,474   35           278,177   34            309,772   34
Textiles and Leather              95,841   17           108,451   16           123,643   16            135,420   16           135,427   15
Wood Processing                   36,800    7            50,672    8            43,244    6            40,3C'2    5            42,940    5
Chemical                         103,850   19           153,992   23           186,549   25            228,728   28           265,672   30
Rubber                             7,152    1             6,610    1              6,573    1             8,471    1            A,056    -
Construction Haterials            21,856    4            23,340    4             23,836    3            24,538    3            23,934    3
Electro-Hechanical                71,646   13            79,231   12            85,853   11            89,209   11            89,391   10
Other                             16,573    3             19,974    3            21.049    3            20.839    3            26872   -3
TOTAL                            561,157  100           664,872  100           751J221  100           825,64  100             898"064  100
0 I
Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
Source: Centrale des Bilmns
WAPID
June 1965



- 28 -
Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 3
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MANUAFACTURING INDUSTRY
1.        The manufacturing industry currently accounts for some 242 of
total employment in the formal sector and comprises more than 700 firms
covering a broad spectrum of activities. The following table highlights
the relative contribution of the various branches in terms of employment,
equity, investments, turnover and exports as of end September 1982:
Contribution of Modern Manufacturing Industry
to the Ivorian Economy as of September 30, 1982
(CFAF millions)
Number of               Total
Main Branches        Enterpr.    Equity   Investments   Turnover   Exports
Agro/Food Industry     281       105,996     229,411       387,733   210,543
Textile/Clothing        /L0       20,490      56.722       129,010    38,469
Chemical/Rubber         61        18,093      38,466        80,613    15,478
Light Engineering       60        11,465      29,539        76,048     4,936
Wood                    107       11,500      43,000        54,863    26,894
Building Materials      20         4,680      11,164        26,963     1,850
Leather/Shoes           35         1,077       4,819         7,772     1,471
Miscellaneous          115         3,162       9,467        22,904     1,080
TOTAL                  719       176.463     422.588      2785290    30072a1
Source: Chamber of Industry
2.        Accounting for 542 of total investments and 40% of value added in
the manufacturing in 1982, the Agro and food processing industry is the
most important branch in terms of employment and exports, representing
respectively 482 of the total employment in the sector and 702 of exports.
Consisting of 281 enterprises, the branch is equipped with relatively
modern plants and has demonstrated its vitality since independence by
growing at an average rate of close to 25% per annum. Unlike firms in most
other branches, the majority of agro-industrial enterprises have not been
particularly affected by the current recession and prospects for further
growth and additional investments in the subsector continue to remain good.
3.        The Textile Subsector in Ivory Coast is second in importance
after the agro-industrial sector in terms of manpower, exports, turnover,
as well as investments and equity. The sector is privileged through a high



- 29 -
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 3
quality resource base (domestic cotton fiber production - 60,000 TPY of
which over 20,000 TPY are used in the textile industry) and relatively
modern plants. The Ivorian textile industry, which comprises about 40
modern firms and a large informal sector (handspinning, hand looms) is the
second largest in West Africa after Nigeria and produces for the domestic
market as well as for exports to neighboring countries (CEAO, CEDEAO), the
EEC and the USA. The main EEC market is France. Exports to the US are
limited to denims and jeans (2 firms).
4.        After a period of relatively rapid and prosperous growth through
the seventies, the Ivorian textile industry is currently facing severe
financial and marketing problems.   Recession at home and in neighboring
countries, coupled with illegal imports, have considerably shrunk domestic
and regional markets; severe import restrictions and red tape in Nigeria,
a major market for Ivorian textiles, have cut-off exports to that country;
competing firms in neighboring countries (Mali, Burkina Faso), benefitting
from subsidized cotton prices (up to 50% less than the world market
prices), have begun to have a significant edge over their Ivorian
counterparts who are now required to pay US$ based world market prices.
The resulting decline in sales has eroded the profitability and liquidity
of the firms, significantly increased their indebtedness and is straining
their financial structure.
5.        With a view to overcoming their current problems, a number of
firms in the sector have already initiated drastic measures to cut their
costs, which include lay-offs, changes in product-mix and shutting down of
unprofitable production lines. A study aimed at determining other
measures, including possible mergers between firms, financed and supervised
by the French Cooperation Agency (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
- CCCE) is currently underway. This study, to be completed shortly,
coupled with the changes in the incentives structure resulting from the
SAL II reform, are expected to pave the way for major changes in the
subsector, including firm specific resturcturing programs and investments
that may be required to increase the competitiveness of Ivorian textile
industry both on domestic and export markets.
6.        The Wood Subsector is the third largest industrial activity in
the Ivory Coast in terms of employment, exports, number of !nterprises, and
investment. Due to a very limited and poorly developed domestic market,
turnover only ranks it in fifth place after agro-industries, textiles,
chemistry and metal working/light engineering. The over 100 enterprises of
wood processing comprise a mixed bag of old, obsolete and partly closed
sawmills, relatively large and modern sawmills (first conversion), plants
for secondary conversion (plywood, woodflooring construction timber), as
well as a few plants for tertiary conversion (furniture, doors, windows,
fences, assembly).
7.        Despite good potential for growth, the Wood Subsector Industry is
presently at a critical turning point and is faced with several policy and
market related issues. Tertiary conversion has not been able to open a
domestic market to speak of, since typically Government purchases or even



- 30 -                         Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 3
purchases by private firms tend to import such items quite frequently duty
free from Europe. On the export market, although a few firms are
struggling to open market nooks for some special products, many of the
plants cannot produce the high quality products required by European
customers, given poorly designed and ill-equipped plants. This problem is
further compounded by the lack of knowledge by the firms of suitable export
market channels and their inability to identify specific new products for
which export markets would likely be available. While policy reforms
currently underway and the assistance provided under the proposed project
are expected to substantially assist in resolving most of the above issues,
the Government's prevailing forestry policy and licensing system for tree
cutting and exports of logs also needs to be reformed. Prevailing policies
are causing a rapid depletion of forestry resources and are also making it
increasingly difficult for local industries to procure large diameter logs
of high export quality. Discussions on these and other related subsector
issues have already been initiated by the Bank with the Government and, in
conjunction with its Second Forestry project, the Bank has agreed to
provide the Government with the required technical assistance to identify
specific changes that are needed to rationalize the prevailing policies.
In the meantime, the subsector is expected to significantly benefit from
the export subsidy scheme introduced under SAL II reforms.
8.        The electro-mechanical subsector in Ivory Coast has grown
essentially for the purpose of responding to the import substitution needs
in the country. Thus its turnover of almost CFAF 80 billion is essentially
of domestic origin and only comprises CFAF 5 billion or 6Z of exports. Its
approximately 60 plants in the formal sector are generally well laid out,
well maintained and well equipped with relatively modern vintage machines
compared to other African countries. They employ about 7,000 persons,
although the informal sector is believed to be more important in
employment. The formal subsector comprises a very diverse collection of
firms which range from a reasonably profitable shipyard to an auto assembly
plant (with only 3% domestic value added), to a bicycle production plant
(with over 60% of domestic value added), to various metal processing,
transport, construction and electro-related assembly plants of medium to
small size. The industry is essentially concentrated around Abidjan, has
relatively small capacities as compared to internatioually known firms, and
is characterized by a relatively high degree of dependence upon expatriate
management and technical assistance. As a result of distorted policies,
linkages within the subsector are still extremely limited, with most input
materials being imported quite frequently duty exempt.
WAPID
June 1985



- 31 -
Annex 2-3
Page 1 of 3
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATUS OF THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR REFORM
1.        SAL I provided a framework for the intensification of the
dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the key issues facing the
future development of the manufacturing sector, and in SAL II, the
Government decided to launch a comprehensive reform of the system of
industrial incentives. This reform is expected to be completed under SAL
III. The main objective of the reform is to restore the conditions of
growth in the sector over the long run by providing a coherent incentive
system that gives equal encouragement to production for local and export
markets, promotes integration of local industry, and fosters greater
efficiency and productivity in the sector. Steps were taken to allow a
period of gradual adjustment.
2.        The core of the reform is an across-the-board tariff-cum-subsidy
scheme that harmonizes effective tariff protection among branches to a
target level of 40Z and compensates exporters for the level of effective
tariff protection granted to domestic sales. The scheme is to be made
fully effective by the abolition of quantitative import restrictions after
a transition period, during vhich these restrictions are replaced by
temporary and declining import surcharges.
3.        Although implementation of the interim action program under
SAL II was marked by slippages brought about by the complexity of the
reform itself as well as by a Government reshuffle in 1984, the Government
consistently reaffirmed its commitment to the objectives of the reform.
The 1984 Finance Law, adopted In February 1984, included the key elements
of the reform, but, as a result of the delays experienced in the design of
its various components, did not contain specific measures of application.
These seasures were included in a set of Laws and Decrees which were
approved formally by the Council of Ministers on June 27, 1984, ratified by
the National Assembly on October 12 and 15, 1984, and made effective March
12, 1985.
4.        The reform was prepared and is being carried out by several
working groups, composed of civil servants and resident technical advisors
from the Ministry of Industry and Planning, the Ministry of Finance, and
the Ministry of Commerce. These working groups are coordinated by a
steering committee, composed of high-level civil servants from the three
ministries, under the direction of the Cabinet of the MInistry of Industry
and Planning. The steering committee is reinforced by two long-term
technical advisors financed under the Bank's techniral assistance loan
(IVC-2059). Consultations between the steering committee and Bank missions
on the one hand and with industrialists on the other hand, have taken place
regularly, whether directly or through the Chamber of Industry. In
general, the industrialists are reacting positively to the reform.
-.



- 32 -
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 3
5.        The reform package contains the following elements:
(a) A Law revising the Customs Tariff, with the new rates calculated
so as to achieve a target 40X effective tariff protection (plus
or minus 5Z) across manufacturing activities. The revised tariff
covers some 75% of manufacturing value added. which exceeds the
target of 60% agreed under SAL II. Some chemical industries,
notably fertilizer, pesticides and Insecticides, and equipment
goods and transportation material are excluded. Anomalies in the
tariff structure still persist; these are expected to be
corrected following an in-depth review by the Tariff Reform
Commission under SAL III. The Law is accompanied by another Law
establishing a system of temporary import surcharges to be
applied to certain products facing particularly sharp drops in
effective tariff protection. An implementation Decree applles
these import surcharges to 101 six-digit Customs Code categories,
with rates varying from 5% to 50%, declining linearly over a 5
year period.
(b) A Law establishing a subsidy on export value added In the
manufacturing sector, in order to provide the equivalent of the
40% effective protection for locally consumed goods. The Law is
accompanied by two Decrees of application. The first specifles
the initial list of subsectors benefitting from the scheme,
namely textiles and clothing, wood processing, and
agro-processing (except coffee and cocoa processing),
representing 501 of manufacturing value added. The second
specifies the implementation aethod of the scheme.
(c)  A Law abolishing the system of quantitative restrictidns (import
licensing and prior import agreement) in the manufacturing sector
and replacing them by temporary import surtaxes. The Law is
accompanied by a Decree removing QRs and establishing te.,porary
import surtaxes in textiles and clothing, wood processing, and
agro-industries, with rates varying from 10X to 50X that %re to
decline linearly over a 5 year period. The Decree abolishes the
system of "valeurs mercuriales" in these subsectors except for
some categories in the textiles and clothing subsector where they
will remain in effect as anti-dumping devices. The Decree also
introduces temporary minimus specific tarlffs for certaln
categories in the agro-industries and textiles and clothing
subsectors to be in effect as anti-dumping devices during six
months. A further Decree establishes a Cowmmsslon of Import
Surtaxes which will monitor the Implementation and generalization
of the scheme.
(d) A Law establishing a new Investment Code. The revised Code
removes the exemption from duties on intermediate inputs for
priority firms and introduces a subsidy on IvorLin vale added,
with rates varying according to the region of establishment and
higher for small and medium scale enterprises. The advantages



- 33 -
Annex 2-3
Page 3 of 3
provided by the code decline over time to ease the transition
from Priority to Common Law status.
(e) A Law modifying selected Articles of the Tax Code, in particular
extending the applicability of the value added tax system to the
first processing of agricultural raw materials, improving the
system for reinvestment of profits, introducing an optional
accelerated depteriation system, and introducing new fiscal
deductions for small and medium 'scale enterprises.
6.        In parallel, the Government prepared Decrees reorganizing CAPEN,
the agency in charge of the promotion of small and medium scale
enterprises, and estabiishing an agency for financial assistance to small
and medium scale enterprises. The draf: Decrees are presently being
finalized. Finally, the Government established an industrial projects
appraisal unit at the level of the Cabinet of the Ministry of Industry.
Little progress was made in designing a system allowing for accelerated
value-added tax reimbursements to exporters. This will be taken up again
under SAL III.
WAPID
June 1985



IVORY COAST
INDUSTIIAL FINAN   AND DEVELOW     PROJECT
TUTAL CREDIT OISXTANLDINO bY SECOR AND TEN4 1/
(CYAF billion)
Sevt. 1980                           SeDt. 1981                          Sept. 1982                          Sept. 1983
Short   Nediu    Long                Short   Hedil    Long               Short   Mediu    Long                Short  Medium  Long
Tero      Term     Term     Total   Tere      Term      Ten     Total   Tern       Tero    Tern      Total   Tom       Tom    TerM    Total
Sector
Sesaonal Crop Credit                  129.2       -        -      129.2   117.4        -              117.4    115.6       *               115.6   116.4       -       -    116.4
Ariculture, Forestry and Fisbery       23.0       8.5      3.3    34.8    25,3         8.6      3.1    37.0    30.1         5.7     2.8    38.6    21.4    10.5    2.0   33.9
mining                                  2.3      4.1       -        6.4     5.4       13.5      -      18.9      8.2       9.3       -      17.5      2.0    14.6      -      16.6
manutacturing                         101.1      73.2      9,0   165.1    101.3       87.7      9.0   198.0   124.9        81.6    10.9   217.4   133.,9    81.1   12.3  227.3
Energy                                  1.5      17.7      6.4     25.6      1.8     1.9.0      6.2    27.0       .7      22.0      5.5    2S.2    11,6    lS.O        5.3   35,S
Construction and Public Vorks          38.0       7.4      1.0    46.4      35.2      13.2      2.4    50.8      33.0      5.0      2.3    40.3    45.5        5.3    2.3   52.1
Comerce and Transport                 249.2      35.7    13.3   296,2   246.4         51,1    13.0   310.5   236.3         43.3    12.6   292.2   266.8    42.8   13.7  323.3
Other                                  33.5      55.5    29.4   118.4      42.5       60.7    10.8   114.0    25.5        60.9    22.2   108.6    35.7    59.6   22.1117.74
TOTAL                                 K77.8    202.1    63.2   843.1   575.3    253.8    44.5    873.6   574.3    227.6    56.3    58.,4   632.3    229   577   922.9
1/ Based on riak declaration by banka.
Source. Central Bank
VAPID
June 1965



- 35 -                                Annex 2-5
IVORY COAST
IDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REFINANCING 'SY THE CENTRAL BANK 1980-1983
End Sept. 1980        End Sept. 19823
- -----  --- -AP bIllon------------------
Specialized hanks
Short-Term Crop Credit                     9.0                  26.9                  26.6
Other Short-Term Credit                   13.1                  12.1                  17.1
Medium and Long-Term Credit               17.0                  17.2                  20.3
Other Banks
Short-Term Crop Credit                   121.3                  82.0                  89.2
Other Short-Term Credit                   72.9                  98.9                 137.1
Medium and Lang-TerD Credit               35.0                  88.6                  94.1
Total For All R'ans k                                            325.7                 384.4
Central Bank Refinancing as a *
Percentage of Total Credit
Outstanding
Short-Term                                37.5                  38.0                  39.0
Medium and Long Term                      16.2                  29.6                  31.9
TOTAL                                     29.9                  34.8                  36.5
Source: Central Bank
VAPID
June 1985



lu,  ""vr
Qljdl9
I2t I1011 IV"JI  S.o9iI
Tw   wPMt WM  wM z    wr nW                                  w  Ulm  W   Wm  Wm  Wrm  MN  WMs  MrM    m                                                           y  in  onn "mm
lflis  r            LII       iV!       liT n4(1          IW        grot .t    g      ii.t U        i .WiT    gi||    ill      l-ii     Ivan iti            ia-i    solid        Wil    h
£ 191     USIS      5*1       "lii      1, 11(59 1ST          1s   '0,1      415      1915      Ml        "'S       59        o1IIs     091m        ti-n     MI%      HI.S         Its     06s                                Hh0l-
SIl       so        ('sC      "It       all`,&   01,11     M,i  t961 "        11s    5161       USt         -                           @5. '11t                      SIt        £.44      Ei         N& ,I I
15(1    (III        as      as..u     wi;                           % 4,4 u9 n11                        (         ISgils  1s9g0         (          1      93 uII              (11                u1SPIMSl
wet*s-Zgt  C        as*u Cl       utse*t          5U      30*E      19W      55 £9 9s  89       U0l(t U-*!Ut   Ktaa                     *5*5 1    &rIM e     .5       ( 5511    0S 11                                       441
*       U, *|t              m@        mi                           *       CIIII                        was U'w             wa1s      Cst         *        wI       1m'u       444A      irm tS                       n    IO 
9011 *  lIla  41CC  6(1    oso       I~~~~~~~~~6S9    N51    £V95  98119    to,"    54,0(4    555K      5551w    01111M     1515£i   IrII    4111015      151116   Ical1m                        13iiaus.s~k
t Wt is g                    Its        *1N1                                                                          s       nu        wu        w            , lt              M        51,1    WaI''a   id i pstal
;u $                 n|       ;Ii1 l             Lt          91    961       65       MV        US w  1 1           59*        wts      |o        tI        wu        asSI      .5.        u*|w
9911: 1-5 91   11          M 11:1 11  11551             594        95        9614      10        (SM.     IS,:       ISM       95        "           -91     16 SM   _  1i
I49  511   U51    U 5    l~                tlII   tlII   n91             US   *15           1£t       IllS n*1 Cl ff61                        (991      991 t        Is  SX     l               tp- ,s OI  s t-Al
WI       fin       5(9      1 N        'S @'*,            Us  t'¶ l*'15  *m'ff *w'ab            un       15£       51         S'lt     CCI it       C      (59       CK elll11W  USC                                  _' Z 1
%%A '     '1       UC'''    SIt         wt'    "   :       1        N-i t.5 .' l '       l      18 ,11CC  "It        Sill     11,       to,       tSo," 911           1u6 nS                .£l                     "
WI  u's       "It5       is,~                                 to,&S (5 U                   soldS 151  (95       1161    5515       NIll      911(1      WillK   *&,SI      SgMl    114f53nwf  oa
Wil  591  CIII 55(5    ~g~    15         1911     155      IC        M*L        9151    1191    (315         6*15    £~gI    1911           MIII     1111111111311410
W'W01    901:11     0 s   111  I1                         II'      fl,W W F           5          I        11        E
CWI ,    41,        ,I:'  p  MS  I I    no'l     go.,     9.11    9.15      uIII    411         515.1     togo      511-   41 Cim-      ISI       96t SON   9616      1C-MI    IC CS      £91                              PIt
III  ala       CC~~~its  %151      11Va     9111    Go,"      "I45    Mt    of55          IlL11     911"       61S11    41059    ",91        Oll"      LIdS     111114     MCII      ",&15          Ita   qa   .,
1101  0555  ISIS  £159     *O(       MIS~~~~~~61.9    1Ills  SW1    MIlS    5945   66ain      VIII    OVU         KI9      099    15155    to,"5    SAUl9   5501              5(591                        Wdj.Ih
51519    A1151    "514        MIS       ISIS     WIU6  81111    £51141   silt1   IIIII         MnIS       till      91159     1149    "It1        6651      111151   96,115    SlitS    ISLE-  ~1iIa                     P    N
FAS      41(5       (5,1     5:411      "( 4L5            III      01 "15    U0913   0911*     9(9      0151411    Z I          :I.     I I.: 59  1 a    S991 " I I 51:  111    CII       1
CIII     el,       tells      E      I           61,(S    CtII    019C      "'S      "'St       W519    vICH        LIIIl    9%1        9,I       $6         1V41111 19  E (9 516    414011  6155"
090  III  IS'S    US ~~~~~~~~~~~~   (501g    3'li    CCI99    Olist  11611    91066          14151     955"      HOCd      64Ilt     ",511      CCsi    Sill6    1459b    NIl
Y.mwu M  A  A  A  a
llmsuum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...



- 37 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 2
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL BANK REFINANCING CRITERIA
1.        In order to be eligible for Central Bank refinancing, all
intermediary banks and beneficiary enterprises are required to demonstrate
that they have a good management, satisfactory finanacial, cash flow and
liquidity positions as well as sound prospects for future profitability.
These are assessed by the Central Bank primarily on the basis of the
following principal requirements, although subjective factors also play a
part in Central Bank's evaluation of each individual beneficiary.
2.        Principal Requirements Applicable to Banks
(a) Minimum share capital.............. At least CFAF one billion
(b)  Net worth .At least 6Z of total loan
commitments
(c)  Short-term assets ..................At least 75Z of sight and
short-term liabilities
(d)  Cash holdings ......................At least 3% of total liquid
and short-term assets
(e) Maiim=m Central Bank refinancing...35% of total commitments
(f)  ExqOure limits:
* 'f)  Individual equity participations limited to 15X of a
bank's effective net worth, or 25% of the share capital
of beneficiary enterprises;
(2) Aggregate equity participations plus net fixed assets
of a bank limited to 10O1 of its net worth;
(3) Total credits to a single or to a group of closely
related beneficiaries limited to 100% of the bank's net
worth;
(4) Total credit to the staff of a bank limited to 201 of
its effective net worth.



- 38 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 2
3.        Compliance with the above requirements is monitored on an ongoing
basis by the Central Bank through submission of the following reports by
the banks:
(a)  Status of liquidity ..........................on a daily basis
(b)  Simuary of loans and resources .............. every 10 days
(c)  Detailed information on loans,
borrowings, deposits, equity
participations as well as liquidity
and net worth ............. ... .,.. *.a.every month
(d)  Provisional balance sheets .................. every 3 months
(e) Year end financial accounts including
detailed balance sheet and income
statements ............... ... ..........O...annually
4.        Principal Requirements Applicable to Enterprises
(a)  Debt/Equity .............. Determined on a case by case basis
taking into account the type of activity
and the profitability but generally
expected not to exceed 3:1 for most
enterprises.
Cb) Net Worth ............At least 5% of annual turnover
{c)  Cash-flow ................At least 5% of annual turnover
(d) Net Working Capital ...... At least 10% of gross working capital
for activities with a long cycle (i.e.
seasonal sales) or, at least 5X for
activities with a short cycle.
5.        Enterprises not fully meeting the above requirements, classified
as second category enterprises, may also be eligible for Central Bank
refinanced loams provided, however, that (i) both their net worth and net
working capital positions are positive and that (ii) prospects for their
profitability to improve are good.
6.        Compliance with the above requiresents is monitored by the
Central Bank on an annual basis. To that end, the Central Bank requires
that all year-end financial statements of beneficiary enterprises be
submitted to it by the intermediary,banks.
VAPID
June 1985



39                                 Annex 3-2
IVORY COAST
ItDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOEPMT PROJECT
ESTIMATED LEVEL OF PROJECTED INVESTMENTS BY 51 MAJOR FIRMS a/
(CFAF Million)
Subsectors                             No. of Flrms Surveyed    Projected Volume of Investments
TEXTILS AND LEAT7MR
Spinning, veaving and printing                           4                             10,715
Knitting and garment making                              4                              3,175
Shoes                                                    2                                580
Suitcases, bags, etc.                                    3                              2,400
WOOD PROCESSING
Saw milling, plywood and veneers                         5                              2,535
Other first and second stage conversions                 3                              2,495
Furniture making                                         3                                635
A51 AND FWOD PROCESSING
Food and fish processing                                 5                              4,795
Flour milling                                            1                              1,745
Other agro-proressing                                   U1                             26,850
PLASTICS AND CHEMICALS
Plastic articles                                         3                              2,150
Chemical and pharmaceutical products                     3                              2,725
n LraRIcAL. METAL AND OTHERS                               4                              5,940
TOTAL                                      51                             66,740
a/ Based on a 1lmited survey carried out by the Ninistry of Industry in March 1985.
Source: Minist.y of Industry
VAPID
June 1985



IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTRAL BANK CREDIT AUTHORIZATIONS:
REQUESTS AND APPROVALS DEC. 1980 - AUG. 1984  a/
(CFAJ billion)
Dec 1,'80 - June 30,.81     July 1,'81 - Nov 19,'82   Nov 20,'82 - Nov 19,'83   Nov 20,'83 - Aug 8,'84
Medium/                     Medium/                   Medium/                    Medium/
Short     Long               Short    Long             Short    Long              Short   Long
Term      Term      Total   Term      Term     Total  Term      Term      Total  Term      Term     Total
Seasonal Crop Credit        125.3       -       125.3    133.1       -      133.1    43.7      -       43.7   190.9      -      190.9
Agriculture                   0.3       0.6        0.9      2,2      2.7      4.9     1.8     1.0       2.8     0.1      0.3       0.4
Industry                     39.1      49.6      88.7      32.2    34.2      66.4    59.1    61.8    120.9    48.0      52.4    100.4
Commerce, Services, Other   148.7      26.2     175.0      55.2     12.7     67.9    29.9     14.9     44.9   40.6      39.5    80.0
TOTATJ APPROVED             313.4      76.4     389.9    222.7    49.6    272.3   134.5       77.7    212.3   279.6     92.2   371.7
TOTAL REQUESTED             417.7      78.3    496.0   244.1    52.8   296.9  367.8    81.0   448.8   353.7    94.3   448.0
Approval as of %
of Requests:                   75        98         79       91       94       92      37       96       47      79       98       83
a/ Excludes credits less than CFAF 100 mIllion for which approval is not required.
Sourcet Central Bank, Abidjan
WAPID
June 1985
~IJ



- 41 -                         Annex 3-4
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Local           Foreign            Total
(inc. taxes)
$'000  CFAF a    $'O00  CFAF u    $'000  CFAF m
Subproject Invests.          36,000  16,200   54,000  24,300   90,000  40,500
Technical Assistance
of vhich:
Advisory Unit                 225     101    1,125      506    1,350     607
Advisor Central Bank           50      23      250      113      300     136
Consultant Banking System      20       9      100      45       120      54
Studies                       100      45      525     236       625     281
TOTAL                        36,395  16,378   56,000  25,200   92,395  41,578
mmmm= m *m---    mmmmw    _-_ 
Financing Plans
(US$' 000)
IBRD     Gvt.     Firms    Cofinance       Total
Subproject
Invests.                   48,000       -     29,000      13,000       90,000
Technical
Assistance
of which:
Advisors                    1,475     295       -           -          1,770
Studies                      525      100       -           -            625
TOTAL                       50,000      395    29,000      13,000       92,395
WAPID
June 1985



- 42 -                                 Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 2
IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELPMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
Quarterly     Cumulative           All Regions  W.A. Region
Quarter Endings  Disbursmernts  Dlsbureements    Z          Z             Z
FY 1986
Sept. 30, 1985          250             250       0.5       -             -
Dec. 31, 1985           500             750        1.5      0             0
Mar. 31, 1986           750           1,500        3.0      -             -
June 30, 1986           750           2,250        4.5      4             3
FY 1987
Sept. 30, 1986        1,000           3.250        6.5      -             -
Dec. 31, 1986         1,500           4,750        9.5     12             7
Mar. 31, 1987         2,500           7,250       14.5      -             -
June 30, 1987         4,000          11,250       22.5     23            14
FT 1988
Sept. 30, 1987        4,000          15,250       30.5      -             -
Dec. 31, 1987         3,000          18,250       36.5     36            22
Mer. 31, 1988         3,000          21,250       42.5      -             -
June 30, 1988         3,000.         24,250      48.5      49            31
FT 1989
Sept. 30, 1988        3,000          27,250      54.5       -             -
Dec. 31, 1988         3,000          30.250      60.5      61            40
Mar. 31, 1989         3,000          33,250       66.5      -             -
June 30, 1989         2,000          35,250       70.5     71            49
FY 1990
Sept. 30, 1989        2,000          37,250      74.5       -             -
Dec. 31, 1989         2,000          39,250       78.5     80            57
Mar. 30, 1990         2,000          41,250       82.5      -             -
June 30, 1990         2,000          43,250      86.5      87            64
FY 1991
Sept. 30. 1990          900          44,150      88.3       -             -
Dec. 31, 1990           900          45,050      90.2      92            71
Mar. 31, 1991           900          45,950       91.9      -             -
June 30, 1991           900          46,850      93.7      95            77
FY 1992
Sept. 30, 1991          800          47.650      95.3       -             -
Dec. 31, 1991           800          48,450       96.9     98            82
Mar. 31, 1992           800          49,250       98.5      -             -
June 30, 1992           750          50,000      100.0     100           87
VAPID
J-n 1985



IVORY COAST
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND DEELJPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Profiles
CUMMULAiWVE PERCENTAOE
too
to
*od
70                                                -
-
60                                          -                                  4
50~~                                                                 I
so 
40
30                          - 
10             /    -,
so
0Y      1                                         -  I  -  rrz_--o       I  " 1  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I.
x
FISCAL YEA
FinJ



ISAD 141801
ThW~~~2 ~BURKINA
IVORY COAST
-          - ttoods
D Oparmtmei capitals
+    W~mar laws~
~    h. wonwal mot
CO.  1irw
L I B E R I A  ~~      ~          ~         ~         ~         aas~            St EGAL ~                ML
G      A
0 UINI A 'GIA A
itI Al f'          !i
r?g AN,JGANA
Guin e L7~~~~~~~~~~I 
I.                     *                                                                   'Jr   Jrd~~~~~~~~~~o 0   MME
I-T a



