Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19900
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2495-CE
December 22, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal, April 1993              US$1.00              Rs 47.7
Mid term review, March 1997        US$1.00              Rs 57.7
Completion, June 1999              US$1.00       =      Rs.71.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA           Central Environmental Agency
CMC           Colombo Municipal Council
CUTP          The Colombo Urban Transport Project
CUTS          Colombo Urban Transport Study
GCMA          Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area
GOSL          Government of Sri Lanka
IDA           International Development Agency
MEIP          Metropolitan Environment Improvement Project
MOTH          Ministry of Transport and Highways
NBRO          National Building Research Organization
NTC           National Transport Commission
PC            Provincial Councils
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SLR           Sri Lanka Railways
SLRA          Sri Lanka Railway Authority
TA            Technical Assistance
TSM           Traffic System Management
TSPC          Transport Studies and Planning Centre
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President             Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director           Mariana Todorova
Sector Director            Frannie Leautier
Team Leader                Juan Gaviria
Task Team Leader           John Tillman



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT ...................                                                  ......................................5
PART  I - PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT  .........................................................                                       5
A. Project objectives ................................5
B    Achievements of Proj ect Objectives .............................. . , . , , . , . 6
C.  Major factors affecting the project .............................8
D. Project sustainability ..............................9
E. Bank performance ,. .                                                             ...9
F. Borrower performance ........................................................... 12
G.   Assessment of outcome .......................................................... 12
H. Future operation .,, 13
I.    Key lessons learned .......................................................... 14
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEX .......................................................                                                          15
Table 1: Summary Of Assessments .......................................................... 16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................................                                            17
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................................................                                                     19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative EstimatedAndActual ..................................................... 20
Tables 5 And 6: Key Indicators For Project Implementation And Operation ..................                                 ................... 21
Table 7: Studies Included In Project .......................................................... 22
Table 8a, Part I - Project Costs In  Us  $ ........................................................... 24
Table 8a, Part 2 - Project In Sl Rs ..........................................................                                           25
Table 8b: Project Financing ..........................................................                                                   26
Table 9: Economic Costs And Benefits ..........................................................                                          27
Table 10: Status Of Legal Covenants .......................................................... 28
Table  12: Bank Resources:  StaffInputs ..........................................................                                       29
Table 13: Bank Resourses:  Missions .......................................................... 30
APPENDIXES
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Economic Re-evaluation
C. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
D. Borrower's Comments on draft ICR
E. Map IBRD No.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2495-CE
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the US$ 25.3 million Colombo Urban
Transport Project (CUTP) in Sri Lanka, for which Credit 2495-CE in the amount of US$20
million (SDR 14.4 million equivalent) was approved on May 18, 1993 and made effective on
August 18, 1993.
The project closed June 30, 1999.  As of December 20, 1999, disbursements totaled
SDR10,031,235.14 (USD14,254,695.57) with an undisbursed balance of SDR4,368,764.86.
After final payments have been made and the outstanding Special Account balance recovered, it
is anticipated an amount of approximately SDR4.3 million ($5.9 million equivalent) will be
cancelled.
This report was prepared by John Tillman, ICR Task Leader (SASIN), with the assistance of
William Denning (TWUTD), particularly with the economic evaluations. The report was
reviewed by the Borrower and by Slobodan Mitric (ECSIN), Stein Lundebye, Juan Gaviria, and
Frannie Leautier, Infrastructure Sector Director (SASIN). In addition, Emesto Corrales, SASIN,
provided active support in the preparation of the report.
IDA's final supervision/completion mission in May 1999 advised the Borrower on the
preparation of their final evaluation report. This report is based on a review of material in the
Project File and on the borrower's evaluation report (Appendix C).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2495-CE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Summary
1.    During the 1980's Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) planned major economic reforms
for which proposed Bank support included a transport project to assist sector reforrns and
investments. In 1988 the road component became the Third Roads Project (US $42 million
Credit No 2183-CE, 1990), and a US$276 million project was envisaged for the rail, bus and
Colombo urban transport infrastructure components. But as the reform climate weakened and
concerns arose about the viability of the proposed railway investment program, the assistance was
reduced to a US$25 million Colombo Urban Transport Project (CUTP). The project consisted
mainly of Traffic System Management (TSM) measures in Colombo and Technical Assistance
(TA) to maintain the transport reform dialogue. The project improved traffic conditions in two of
Colombo's worst congested areas. In addition, while maintaining the reform dialogue, progress
was made in developing long term urban transport plans, implementing a railway access policy
for private rail freight operations, and establishing monitoring stations and air quality records as
part of GOSL's Clean Air 2000 action plan. Notwithstanding the narrower objectives, the CUTP
was often adversely judged in the context of the GOSL's failure to implement its overall reform
agenda.
-Evaluation of Project objectives
2.    The appraisal report reflected the original ambitious intentions, and indicated objectives
that were too broadly defined in relation to both the actual project components and to GOSL's
ability to undertake reforms. The stated objectives of the project were: (a) reduce traffic
bottlenecks and congestion in Colombo; and (b) assist GOSL and relevant agencies to: (i) develop
transport plans for Colombo and strengthen urban transport institutions; (ii) strengthen bus
regulatory capabilities; (iii) increase the efficiency of the Sri Lanka Railways (SLR); and (iv)
promote air quality standards and emission control measures.
3.    The objectives of the traffic and urban planning component were straightforward, but the
objectives of the bus and railway components were complex and risky, and beyond what could be
dealt with by an intensive supervision dialogue. GOSL had not formulated a coherent program
for establishing an effective bus regulatory regime, thus the objective of strengthening the
concerned agencies was a risky one for GOSL. The railway component assumed that GOSL
would implement the legislation transforming the railway into an autonomous body but this
proved to be too complex and risky for GOSL. The environment item was, however, an integral
part of the successful MEIP program and its Clean Air 2000 action plan.



Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The Project outcome was satisfactory. Recent traffic studies of the traffic system
management program (76% of project cost), which consisted of measures in the Olcott Mawatha
corridor and additional capacity at the Maradana junction, indicates major reductions in travel
time, and that an economic rate of return of 27% was achieved, close to that projected at
appraisal. As a result of the success of this component, the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC)
is planning to implement further traffic management programs. The outcome of the TA
components (24% of cost) was mixed. The Colombo Urban Transport Study was satisfactory, but
was completed at end of the project leaving little time for discussions with GOSL about the
implementation of the policies and programs. The outcome of the bus regulatory component
(training and provision of computer hardware and software and the dropped bus route costing
study) was unsatisfactory. Little institutional strengthening occurred, while the bus crew training
program included at the mid term review was not matched with improved safety programs, and
has resulted in little improvement in bus crew performance. For the railway component, it was
agreed with GOSL/SLR during the mid term review that the railway component would focus on
implementing the access for private rail freight operators, and the outcome of this was
satisfactory. The general commercial assistance for SLR accounting and property development
had some limited success. The outcome of the air quality monitoring component, which included
procurement of air quality testing equipment and training in data collection and analysis was a
successful part of the Clean Air 2000 action plan.
5.    The key factor adversely affecting the achievement of project objectives was the
deteriorating overall climate for reforms. Bus policy remained in a vacuum. The legislation
establishing SLRA was not implemented, but GOSL moved ahead on railway freight access
policy. The protracted GOSL clearance procedures for procurement and selection of consultants,
however, delayed the opportunity for a dialogue on the implementation of various reforms.
Transport Studies and Planning Centre (TSPC) was to have played a vital role in managing the
project, but it was scaled back during the latter part of the project, which reduced its effectiveness
especially in monitoring and evaluation.
6.     While IDA's identification, preparation, and supervision was satisfactory, appraisal
suffered from setting unrealistic goals for the TA components. Following the hiatus in reforms in
1994 and 1995, IDA and GOSL developed a Transport Sector Strategy study and some of the
issues discussed in the study were taken up under the project including the amalgamation of the
93 public sector bus companies into I 1 units, and the railway access policy.
Project Sustainability
7.    The completed physical works had a sustainable impact on traffic flows, and further
improvements are attainable from coordinating the traffic signals, and from introducing one way
systems and bus lanes. A dialogue on transport reforms was maintained and many policy papers
were prepared in Sri Lanka during the project period. CMC has prepared an action plan for
traffic management and it is likely that over time much of the urban transport planning will lead
to implementation of traffic management and engineering schemes. Little was achieved with the
bus component due to GOSL's indecision about the bus industry reform. The railway access
policy has been implemented for one private party, but the timing of access for other shippers
may depend on when GOSL deals with labor opposition to railway reform. The air quality
monitoring stations have been an integral component of the Clean Air 2000 Action Plan, and has
provided the basis for Sri Lanka's first air quality analysis, but it will be up to GOSL and



stakeholders to translate this into policies and implement programs that will achieve the air
quality reduction targets.
Lessons Learned
8.    The project objectives given in the appraisal report should be related to what the project
can deliver. It is important to be realistic about the potential results of institutional strengthening
since that depends critically on the progress of country-wide economic and decentralization
reforms. Too many implementing agencies involved with the project weakens the impact of
dialogue on project matters and policy reforms. Project Management Units should be avoided,
since projects being implemented by an established unit of the executing agency contribute
directly to that agency's strengthening. Bids should be obtained for major civil works and goods
and proposals for major consultancy studies before Board presentation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2495-CE
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the project as given in the appraisal report were to:
(a)   remove traffic bottlenecks and reduce congestion in Central Colombo;
(b)    assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and relevant agencies to:
(i)    develop transport plans for the Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area
(GCMA) and strengthen urban transport institutions;
(ii)   strengthen the bus regulatory capabilities of the National Transport
Commission (NTC) and Provincial Councils (PC);
(iii)  increase the efficiency of the Sri Lanka Railways (SLR); and
(iv)   promote air quality standards and emission control measures (Central
Environmental Agency (CEA)/Metropolitan Environment Improvement
Project (MEIP)).
2.    The objectives matched GOSL's strategy of providing the transport infrastructure needed
for greater economic commercialization and private sector participation, and for promotion of
export oriented growth. Colombo being a focal point for industrial and commercial growth, the
strategy was to implement traffic management measures and develop long-term plans to prevent
traffic congestion in Colombo from imposing high costs on commercial and industrial activity
which could damage Sri Lanka's export competitiveness. IDA supported this strategy.
3.    IDA had intended to assist with the implementation of major transport sector reforms and
investments. When these reforms could not be undertaken, certain components were repackaged
to form a modest project of urgent Traffic System Management (TSM) measures in Colombo and
Technical Assistance (TA) to maintain a dialogue on transport reforms. The style of the appraisal
report however reflected the earlier ambitious intentions. The actual design of the project
components suggest that a more appropriate statement of the objectives would have been: (a)
remove certain key traffic bottlenecks in Colombo and reduce related congestion; (b) maintain a
dialogue with GOSL on transport reforms: (i) develop long-term transport plans for the
GCMA; (b) (ii) strengthen the bus regulatory capabilities of the national Transport Commission
(NTC) and the Provincial Councils (PC); (b) (iii) assist the implementation of railway
reforms; and (b) (iv) provide an analytical basis for developing an air pollution management
program. Modest attempts were made during supervision to restate the project objectives,
particularly during the mid-term review.



6
4.    The objectives of the TSM component (76% of project cost) were straightforward. The
appraisal report indicated the risks that occur with this type of activity and to reduce these risks
the component included close supervision of the civil works. However the report was silent on
maintenance management systems and no TA was provided for improving these systems.
5.    The objectives of certain TA components were complex and risky. The appraisal report
noted that an intensive policy dialogue with GOSL would be needed to reduce the risk that the
achievement of the institutional strengthening and reform objectives did not fall below
expectations. However these risks exceeded what could be dealt with through intensive dialogue
during supervision missions. The effectiveness of the dialogue was also made more difficult
because the different topics and agencies diluted the project's focus.
6.    The bus and railway items were complex and risky. GOSL had intended to privatize the
Sri Lanka Central Transport Board by transferring ownership to private operators, but was only
able to decentralized the Board into 93 peoplised units with ownership shared between GOSL and
the workers. The appraisal report gave no indication that GOSL had formulated a coherent
program for establishing an effective bus riegulatory agencies, and in the absence of such a
program, the objective of strengthening NTC and PCs was a risky one for GOSL. The railway
component assumed that GOSL would implement the legislation transforming SLR into an
autonomous Sri Lanka Railway Authority (SLRA), but this proved to be too complex and risky
for GOSL. However the environment item was an integral part of the successful MEIP program
and its Clean Air 2000 action plan, reviewed in the 1999 Bank report "Colombo Story; Piloting
Environmental Change in Sri Lanka."
B.    ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Components
7.    The Project consisted of the following components:
(a)    A traffic system management program (TSM (76% of project cost). This
consisted of: (i) junction improvements, signalization, bus terminal
improvements, pedestrian facilities and a footbridge, rehabilitation of the road,
sidewalks and drainage and stalls for small traders for the Fort area and the
nearby Olcott Mawatha corridor (38% of project cost); (ii) additional capacity at
the Maradana junction by construction of an additional bridge over the railway
(27% of cost); and (iii) consultancy supervision (11% of cost);
(b)    Colombo Urban Transport Study (CUTS) (6% of cost). This consisted of the
preparation of a long term comprehensive policy and investment program; and
(c)   Institutional strengthening (17% of costs):
(i)    NTC/PC. To strengthen the bus regulatory capability, this included
training for NTC and PC staff and provision of computer hardware and
software and a bus route costing study (4% of cost).
(ii)   SLR. To support SLR becoming an autonomous body, consultancy
services were provided to advise on the commercialization process
including potential private sector involvement, training of financial,
operating and marketmng staff, installation and training of a management



7
information system, and development of a public sector obligation
framework (11% of cost).
(iii)   Air quality monitoring and management. This included procurement
of air quality testing equipment and consultancy services to prepare an
air pollution control program for Colombo by developing an emissions
inventory, monitoring air pollutants, carrying out feasibility studies for
reducing vehicular air pollution, and training (2% of cost).
Achievement of Objectives
8.    Remove "certain" transport bottlenecks and reduce "related " traffic congestion in
Central Colombo. This objective was fully achieved. A recent traffic study indicates substantial
reduction travel time in the affected areas and the economic returns projected at appraisal were
realized. As a result of the success of this component, Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) is
planning to implement further traffic management programs. The component also encouraged
the development of two private contractors who now do work for public road agencies.
9.    Long-term Urban Transport Planning. This objective was fully achieved and a
comprehensive policy and investment program for Colombo was prepared. The work was done
in two phases but GOSL consultant selection process resulted in a two year delay in the second
phase which was completed only as the project closed. A workshop with key stakeholders was
conducted in May 1999 to discuss the institutional findings of the report, and IDA is currently
preparing an urban transport strategy note. In addition, during the project period there were
workshops and papers prepared by various parties in Sri Lanka and an awareness of the strategies
and policies needed to tackle Colombo's traffic problems began to emerge.
10.   Strengthening management capability of NTClPCs. This objective was not achieved
and these agencies have remained unchanged in their bus regulatory capacity.
11.   Increasing efficiency of SLR. International experience now indicates that the change
from SLR to SLRA would be unlikely to lead to an increase in efficiency, and that private sector
participation is needed. In 1995 the new government declined to implement the law establishing
SLRA, and in 1996 IDA and GOSL agreed to focus the railway TA component to assist SLR
implement an access policy for private development of rail freight services. SLR established a
Strategic Business Unit (SBU) which developed the access policy and negotiated an access
contract with a cement company to operate its own train, but SBU/SLR/MOTH have yet to work
with two further parties interested in the access policy. The project thus satisfactorily initiated the
introduction of the private sector into the railway.
12.   Promote air quality standards and emission control measures. This objective was
inappropriate and was not achieved. The actual design of this component suggests that a more
appropriate objective was to initiate a dialogue among GOSL agencies to highlight the need for
appropriate ambient air quality standards and provide an analytical basis for developing an air
pollution management program, and this was achieved.



8
Economic Evaluation
13.   An economic reassessment was undertaken for the TSM which amounted to 76% of
project costs (see annex B). The major physical components of the project are likely to meet
their objectives, and have ERR's similar to those estimated at appraisal.
Economic Rates of Return (ERR%)
Components             ICR                Appraisal
Olcott Mawatha              30                   28
Maradana Junction           22                   24
Fort Junctions            dropped                45
Total                      27                   26
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
14.   Factors outside the control of the government. Security incidents in Colombo required
a change in traffic patterns causing the Fort traffic measures to be dropped from the project.
Security matters also became a GOSL priority and adversely affected the climate for reforms.
15.   Factors within the control of the government. Following the change of government in
1994, the legislation establishing SLRA was not implemented. Bus policy remained in a vacuum
and there was no leadership to reorient the National Transport Commission from the traditions of
the Central Transport Board from which it had originated. The change in the Minister of
Transport in 1997 further delayed decision making. However, these delays provided the
opportunity for extensive discussions of transport policy within GOSL and civil society. GOSL
moved ahead on railway freiaht access policy and began regrouping the "peoplised" bus services
to 11 companies. The slowdown in decentralization also reduced the ability of the Provincial
Councils to undertake many of their responsibilities.
16.   Timeliness in decision making. The civil works were completed by the original closing
date indicating that the appraisal estimate of the project period was realistic. The protracted
GOSL clearance procedures for procurement and selection of consultants, however, caused
delays and reduced the opportunity for a dialogue on the implementation of various reforms.
17.   Project cost. The actual project cost (Table 8a) amounted to US$ 18 million, i.e. 72% of
the appraisal estimate of US$ 25 million. The contingencies were not needed. The savings on
the Fort junction were used on improvements to the bus station at Bastion Mawatha within the
Olcott Mawatha area. There were considerable savings on the TA components especially the
railway item. IDA would likely have responded favorably to a GOSL request to use the project
savings for other justifiable traffic schemes in Colombo, but no request was received which could
have been implemented during the project period.



9
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILrIY
18.   The sustainability ratings of the components are:
Overall  Traffic system   Urban transport  NTC/PC    SLR      Environmental
management       planning                             monitoring
(TSM)
Likely      Likely          Likely      Unlikely   Uncertain    Uncertain
19.   The road improvements had a sustainable impact on traffic flows. Further improvements
are attainable from coordinating the traffic signals, and from introducing one way systems and
bus lanes. The Colombo Metropolitan Council (CMC) highway department has taken over the
maintenance of the improvements as part of their regular maintenance program and has the
capacity for continuing with traffic management projects.
20.   The technical assistance was successful in maintaining a dialogue on transport reforms,
and many policy papers were prepared during the project period. CMC has prepared an action
plan for traffic management and it is likely that over time much of the CUTS work will lead to
implementation of traffic management and engineering schemes. Little was achieved with the
NTC component due to GOSL's indecision about the bus industry. The objective of the railway
component was changed during the mid-term review to the development of an access policy for
private sector railway freight services. An initial access contract is in operation, and other
shippers are interested, but the timing of these other contracts depends on when GOSL/MOTH is
successful in dealing with labor opposition to railway reform.
21.   CEA has developed a program of air quality monitoring in the Colombo Metropolitan
Area utilizing the two fixed air quality monitoring stations procured under the Credit and a
monitoring program for secondary cities using the mobile station. Funds for the program have
been allocated by GOSL, and technical assistance for data analysis and interpretation will be
provided under the IDA financed Environment Action I Project. A comprehensive air quality
management action plan was developed with stakeholder participation and in 1993 GOSL
approved the implementation of the Clean Air 2000 Action Plan. While certain parts of the
Action Plan have been implemented, a significant portion has yet to be implemented. The
sustainability of the air quality monitoring component is therefore uncertain.
E.    IDA'S PERFORMANCE
22.   Overall, IDA's identification, preparation and supervision was satisfactory. Considerable
effort was devoted to identification and preparation activities, and to supervision from early 1997.
Appraisal was unsatisfactory.
23.   Project identification and preparation were satisfactory. Identification began in 1986
as part of IDA's proposed support for the economic reforms proposed by GOSL. Initially the
proposed Transport Rehabilitation project covered roads, railway, bus line of credit, and urban
traffic management, and in 1988 a Project Preparation Facility was for the preparation work. In
1988 the road component became a separate project (Third Roads Project Credit No 2183-CE).



10
In 1990 the project was renamed Transport I and in 1991 assistance was proposed for a US$276
million project with railway, bus and Colombo traffic system management schemes components.
In 1992 concerns about the proposed railway investment program resulted in the Colombo Urban
Transport Project (CUTP) being proposed which focused on relieving key traffic bottlenecks in
Colombo and on providing TA to assist keeping the transport reform dialogue open with possible
future assistance for major reforms as and when they occurred. IDA therefore demonstrated
flexibility in modifying the proposed assistance to respond to the changing political climate in Sri
Lanka.
24.    Appraisal. The appraisal was unsatisfactory. The Appraisal mission aide-memoire is
missing from the files. The appraisal report documents the TSM investment program and its
analysis. However, there was no discussion of the status of maintenance management systems
and unlike most IDA financed road projects no assistance was provided for strengthening the
systems. The feasibility studies and many of the designs for civil works for the TSM component
were completed by credit signing in June 1993, but only one contract had been issued for bids by
the end of 1993. This was not untypical of projects of this vintage although Bank practice now
requires bids to be received on the first year program.
25.    The economic evaluation was appropriate to an urban transport project. It included
consideration of changes in traffic congestion on project benefits. It included consideration of
increased congestion during project construction as a "negative benefit". Benefits due to changes
in vehicle operating costs were estimated for both benefits from reduced roughness and benefits
due to reduction in congestion. The evaluation conducted an appropriate level of sensitivity
analysis and calculated switch values. Benefits described but not quantified in the appraisal
report included reduced traffic safety hazards and improved pedestrian access. The third benefit
of better access to the port area, was eliminated when the Fort Junction item was dropped as a
result of security considerations. Information developed during the project indicated that: (a) at
Olcott Mawatha improvements were quite substantial, with speeds increasing from 25 km per
hour to 35 km per hour during uncongested times and from 16 km to 20 km during extreme
congestion (see Annex B). Accidents in this area also dropped by 25% during the project period.
However at Maradana accidents nearly tripled in part due to traffic being temporarily diverted
here from the Baseline Road reconstruction area.
26.    The urban transport study was well conceived, and the appraisal of the railway
component was satisfactory. SLR matters were thoroughly analyzed during preparation and the
appraisal report summarizes SLR issues. In 1993 the conventional wisdom concerning the
reforms needed to adapt state owned railways to competitive transport markets was changing
from a focus on institutional reforms within the public sector railway to the realization that
privatization was essential. The Railway TA component reflects this transition by having two
components: the first to assist in transforming SLR into SLRA , and the second to assist GOSL to
evaluate the options for privatization, thus implicitly recognizing the limitations of SLRA.
27.    The appraisal of the NTC component was unsatisfactory. The report did not analyze the
bus regulatory regime etc., and therefore provided no basis for assessing the need for assistance
for strengthening NTC/PC, or for evaluating whether such assistance was successful. However,
dialogue during the project contributed to GOSL consolidating the peoplised bus companies into
11 regional transport companies in 1998.
28.    The appraisal report discussion of the Air Quality Monitoring component was
unsatisfactory. There was no analysis of policies, programs or institutional arrangements and
problems later arose over the responsibility for monitoring and whether CEA was to develop an



11
air pollution management program and who was to implement the program. As a Bank
administered program, it was a conflict of responsibility for MEIP to implement this component.
29.   Supervision was satisfactory, but was adversely affected by the political and security
developments in Sri Lanka in 1994 and 1995. Following the hiatus in reforms during these two
years, in 1996 IDA and GOSL developed a Transport Sector Strategy study which involved
participatory workshops. After endorsement of the sector work by GOSL, there was intense
supervision from March 1997 until project closing in June 1999 which helped to make up for
earlier deficiencies. Some of the issues discussed in the strategy were taken up under the project
including the amalgamation of the peoplised bus companies and the railway access policy.
30.   The supervision missions from 1997 onwards monitored the civil works closely. The
project envisaged sequencing for much of the civil works, and the political developments and
change in government in 1994 caused only relatively small delays. All contracts were completed
by project closing, except for the Fort intersections which were dropped because of the impact of
security measures on traffic flows at these locations. IDA declined to fund the traffic signal
component when GOSL awarded the contract on a sole source basis to a local supplier.
31.   The March 1997 supervision mission conducted an informal mid term review and agreed
with GOSL to restructure the TA component to include financing (i) a private bus sector crew
training program prior to GOSL making such training compulsory for those entering the industry;
and (ii) SLR training and consultancy services to prepare the railway for operation of an access
policy and for commercial orientation.  The midterm  review also undertook to retrofit
performance indicators, but this was before the procedures for a project design summary table
had been fully developed. The indicators for the bus and environmental components exceeded
what could be expected to be achieved from the TA components. Moreover data that was to be
collected by the Transport Studies and Planning Commission (TSPC) that was essential for
quantifying the indicators was not collected as TSPC was downsized during project
implementation reducing its capacity to cany out monitoring. IDA's supervision teams (there
were four tasks managers during the project period) did not always work closely enough with
SLR or NTC but relied on TSPC for maintaining the policy and reform dialogue. TSPC did not
have the stature within GOSL to adequately pursue the reform agenda.
32.    Supervision of the TA component was generally satisfactory. Initially attention was
focussed on beginning the Colombo Urban Transport Study, and to holding a "best practice"
railway workshop in 1995. The lack of an appraisal blueprint for assessing the progress in
institutional strengthening of NTC resulted in this item being rated satisfactory in the project
status report because procurement was proceeding and NTC was continuing its routine work.
The supervision team worked closely with SLRJSBU to finalize and implement the access policy,
including a 1998 study of potential private rail operators.
33.   The air quality component was managed by MEIP, and the CUTP supervision reports
focused on the details of the monitoring program and the specific problems concerning repair and
operation of the monitoring equipment. The reports did not indicate how the component
contributed to the progress of the Clean Air 2000 action plan. This explains the apparent
contradiction between the critical supervision comments on the performance of the monitoring
equipment and the continued satisfactory rating in the project status report.



12
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   The  borrower's  project identification  and  preparation  was  satisfactory, but
implementation was only marginally satisfactory due to a variety of problems, which hindered but
did not ultimately prevent the projects implementation. Slow GOSL procurement procedures
delayed the TSM component. Also the project included procurement of traffic signal equipment
under international competitive bidding process with the equipment to be the first part of a
computerized urban traffic control system for Colombo. In 1997/98 MOTH unilaterally decided
that the traffic signal equipment from abroad was too expensive, and that it would buy locally
made traffic signal equipment on a sole source basis, despite the unsophisticated equipment was
unsuitable for the central business district of Colombo or for the project roads due to poor co-
ordination of the traffic signals in the absence of "cableless linking" to electrical time clocks and
thereby reducing the benefits of the traffic management schemes. GOSL financed the basic
signal equipment itself when IDA declined to finance, but the cableless linking has yet to be
introduced.
35.   Consultant selection in the TA component was delayed by GOSL procedures. CUTS was
split into two phases with separate consultant selection processes, and the full study could only be
completed at the time of project closing. GOSL remained undecided about how to make the
"peoplised" bus companies successful and NTC played a passive role in using the TA component
for institutional strengthening. Instead NTC proposed the private sector bus crew training
program. The new government in 1995 decided against transforming SLR into SLRA but was
willing to use the TA for implementing the access policy for freight operations. The change of
Minister delayed establishing the SBU and the recruiting of consultants for this and the
accounting, property development and stores management proved time consuming. GOSL
(MOTH/SLR) declined to hire a consulting firm for the development of SLR management
information systems even though individual consultants were not available
36.   In the environmental component, CEA was to retain ownership of the equipment, but the
routine monitoring was to be contracted out to NBRO. But the component suffered from
difficulties that arose due to inadequate coordination between the CEA and NBRO and a lack of
clear definition of responsibility between the two agencies.
37.   TSPC was to have played a vital role in managing the project, but it took time to become
effective and was scaled back during the latter part of the project, which severely damaged its
effectiveness especially in monitoring and evaluation. TSPC played a useful role in managing the
day to day affairs of the project, maintaining a policy dialogue with some agencies, and on
assisting CMC with the TSM component. TSPC was responsible for the execution of CUTS and
it satisfactorily supervised the consultants. However TSPC lacked the stature to take the
leadership in project matters relating to SLR and NTC. All legal covenants were met.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.   Overall the Project outcome was rated as satisfactory (Table 1):
(a)    The outcome of the TSM component was very satisfactory and CMC is planning
to implement further traffic management programs.



13
(b)    The outcome of TA assistance components were:
(i)    The CUTS component was satisfactory, even though it was completed
only at end of project, thus leaving little time for supervision missions to
discuss with GOSL their plans to implement the policies and programs.
(ii)   The NTC/PC  component was unsatisfactory.   Little institutional
strengthening of NTC/PC occurred. Also the bus crew training program
was not matched with any improved safety programs etc., and has
resulted in little improvement in bus crew performance.
(iii)  In 1996 IDA and GOSL decided to focus the Railway TA on assisting
GOSL/SLR to implement access for private Rail freight operators, and
the outcome of this component was satisfactory. The assistance in areas
such as accounting and property development had some success once
GOSL finally approved the consultant's appointments. An expatriate
railway adviser provided a wide range of advice and assistance to SLR
on modern railway management practices. Unfortunately, many of the
proposed innovations required SLR to obtain GOSL/MOTH approval
and this was often delayed or not forthcoming. But, as noted, such
assistance would have little impact on efficiency as long as SLR remains
in the public sector.
(iv)   The outcome of the air quality monitoring component was partially
satisfactory and established monitoring stations as part of the Clean Air
2000 action plan, but it will be up to GOSL and stakeholders to translate
this into policies and implement programs that will achieve the air
quality reduction targets.
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
39.   The traffic system management component is functioning as planned and no further
monitoring is needed. GOSL now plans to allocate road maintenance and development funds
directly to local authorities thereby improving CMC's ability to maintain the infrastructure
improvements created by this component. CUTS has developed comprehensive plans for the
Colombo area and undertook feasibility work permitting early implementation of such plans.
This has assisted CMC to prepare a program for road rehabilitation, maintenance and capacity
expansion and is establishing a pavement management system. IDA is undertaking an urban
transport strategy review with GOSL focusing on implementation issues.
40.   TSPC have been absorbed by the expanded Planning and Monitoring Division of MOTH
as part of GOSL policy to strengthen the planning and monitoring activities of line Ministries. In
the short term, the transport planning activities are likely to be reduced and it is uncertain if
GOSL will be more proactive in implementation of transport development efforts.
41.   The railway TA assisted SLR develop an access policy for private development of rail
freight services and in reaching the first access agreement with a private party. Other companies
are interested, but further TA may be needed for SLR to meet the operational requirements of
significant numbers of rail freight operators. IDA currently has no plans for such assistance,
although IFC could assist the private operators.



14
42.   A draft bus policy prepared by NDC is being reviewed by GOSL with a view to
finalizing a national bus policy after the forth coming national elections.
43.   The air quality monitoring stations have been an integral component of the Clean Air
2000 Action Plan. The data collected has provided the basis for air quality analysis for the first
time in Sri Lanka. Although, the component suffered due to poor maintenance support from the
equipment supplier, a significant amount of air quality data has been gathered. GOSL has
committed resources for the operation and maintenance of the equipment, data analysis and
modeling required for introducing policies to reverse the trend of deteriorating air quality. This
will be supported under the IDA financed Environment Action 1 Project.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.   Ensure that project objectives as given in the project documents are related to what
the project can deliver. As a project evolves during identification, preparation and appraisal, it
is important that a realistic match is maintained between project components, objectives and
indicators. The project design summary table now included in project documentation is a key
step in ensuring that this is done. This would also have helped ensure that the project was
realistic about what could be achieved with the TA components.
45.   Be realistic about results of institutional strengthening. The objective of the TA to
assist SLR become an autonomous body was to increase efficiency. Changing a government.
department into a supposedly autonomous body would be unlikely to have a noticeable impact on
efficiency unless this was accompanied by a deregulation of (a) service provision and tariff
setting to enable effective commercial response to competition; and (b) genuine autonomy
regarding cost control, use of revenues and access to capital markets. In a country where red tape
and political interference is the norm, it is unrealistic to expect sustainable efficiency gains. Thus
the transformation of SLR into SLRA by itself would not achieve these gains.
46.   Avoid having too many implementing agencies involved with the project.
Supervision involved five agencies which weakened the impact of Bank discussions with GOSL
on project matters and policy reforms. The project would have been a typical Bank urban
transport infrastructure project if CUTP haq consisted of: (i) the Traffic System Management
component; and (ii) TA for institutional strengthening for CMC highway department, and for the
Colombo Urban Transport Study. In the absence of a coherent bus industry development policy,
assistance was not justified for NTC/PC. A stand alone TA project could have been considered
for the development and implementation of railway reform measures. The air quality monitoring
component should have been included in IDA's environmental assistance projects.
47.   Avoid having Project Management Units. Projects are more effective if they are being
implemented by an established unit as part of the regular work program of the executing agency.
The project can then contribute directly to the institutional strengthening of that agency.
48.   Obtain bids for major civil works and goods and proposals for major consultancy
studies before Board presentation. The procurement process needs to be well advanced by the
time of negotiations, particularly in countries where procurement is a slow process.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2495-CE
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEX



16
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial      Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                   O             11              0               /
Sector Policies                  O             /               O               O
Financial Objectives             O             O               O               I/
Institutional Development        Ol                            E Ol
Physical Objectives              I/            11              0               0
Poverty Reduction                O             O               O
Gender Issues                    O             O               O               /
Other Social Objectives          Cl            O 
Environmental Objectives         O             I/              O               O
Public Sector Management         E                             E Ol
Private Sector Development       O                                /  O         E
Other (specify)                  a             E               E               /
B. Project Sustainability          Likely               Unlikely                Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory       Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                   E                     /                       E
Preparation Assistance           E                     /                       El
Appraisal                        E                      E                      V
Supervision                      El                    /                       El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                              E              /             E
Implementation                           O              /             E
Covenant Compliance                      E              /             E
Operation (if applicable)                El             El            E
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
E             /               E               E



17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                             Year of      Status
approval
1. Road          The basic aim was to facilitate the transport of goods and  June 1979    complete
Maintenance      passengers and to reduce road transport costs. The project was
Project (Credit    specifically designed to: (a) arrest the deterioration of the road
900-CE)          system  by a program  of enhanced routine and periodic
maintenance, and (b) lay the foundation for improved planning
of road maintenance and execution of future works
2. Road          The objectives of the project were to: (a) restrain the growth of March 1980  complete
Passenger        oil imports, (b) provide a more reliable bus service which would
Transport Project  offer the public a more acceptable alternative to the use of
(Credit 994-CE)   private car, and (c) decentralize the control of bus operations to
financially viable RTBs.
3. Second Roads   The objectives of the Second Roads Project were to lower April 1985   complete
Project (Loan    vehicle operating costs on Sri Lanka's deteriorated road network
2517-CE)         through a targeted investrnent program for priority road sections
and selected bridges. The loan also envisioned strengthening
the institutions concerned with transport infrastructure in the
areas of transport planning  and  coordination  and road
maintenance.  The project's principal components included
improving periodic maintenance of the trunk road network and
bridges (about 10,400 km and several hundred structures), and
the rehabilitation and/or widening of about 570 kilometers of
roads and 28 brides.  It also provided for workshop and
laboratory equipment, training in bitumen emulsion technology,
equipment fleet management and technical assistance to
strengthen contract management and administration
4. Third Roads    The project's objectives were to: (a) reduce road transport cost December    complete
Project (Cr. 2183-  and delays for passengers and goods by restoring major trunk  1998
CE)              roads to better operational condition, (b) help restore priority
road infrastructure damaged by flooding and landslides in
May/June 1989, (c) enhance institutional capabilities to increase
the quality and extent of road maintenance and rehabilitation,
and (d) upgrade the Road Development Authority's (RDA)
capacity to supervise and execute rehabilitation works and to
identify actions needed to develop the local road contracting
industry.



18
5. Emergency      The main  objectives of the project were to  assist the  March 1983   Complete
Reconstruction    Government of Sri Lanka: (i) to deliver crucial social needs to
and              refugees returning to the North and East regions of the country,
Rehabilitation    which had been ravaged by civil war, (ii) to rehabilitate and
Project (Credit    upgrade basic infrastructure damaged in the conflict, and (iii) to
1883-CE)         reestablish economic activities in these areas.   Specific
objectives of the project included: (i) clearing of mined
residential and agricultural areas, (ii) provision of resettlement
grants, (iii) assistance for housing construction and for the
recovery of economic activities, and (iv) reconstruction of
physical infrastructure.
6. Economic       The broad objectives of the ERC and the PMEAC were to  May 1990    Complete
Restructuring     support the program agreed between the Government, the Bank,
Credit (Credit    and the IMF and set forth in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP).'
2128-CE)          The  ERC  emphasized  macro-economic  stabilization  and
poverty-reducing growth through structural measures to
rationalize government expenditures, alleviate poverty, and
develop the private sector. The PMEAC focused on the
development of the private sector through measures to
deregulate, commercialize, and privatize public manufacturing
enterprises.



19
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned           Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
_ _   _      _     _     _     _~~~                                    - ___l
Identification (Executive Project Summary)     November 1992
Preparation
Appraisal                                       January 1993           April 4, 1993
Negotiations                                     March 1993            April 21, 1993
Board Presentation                                May 1993             May 18, 1993
Signing                                                                June 11, 1993
Effectiveness                                                         August 18, 1993
Mid-term Review                                                       March 19, 1997
Project Completion                              June 30, 1999          June 30, 1999
Loan Closing                                   October 31, 1999                           i
L Loan will be closed as soon as two applications are received and the Special Account
balance recovered.



TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ MILLION)
FY93          FY94           FY95           FY96           FY97           FY98           FY99           FY00
Appraisal        0.00           2.40           6.40           13.00         18.90          20.00          20.00          20.00
Estimate
Actual           0.00           2.20           3.30           7.74           9.87          12.12          13.64          14.3*
Actual as %       0%            92%            52%            60%            52%           61%            68%             71%
of Estimate
As of December 20, 1999



21
TABLES 5 AND 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Key Implementation                SAR Estimate                                Revised
Indicators                                                                (funded)
1. Upgrading of the                   2.3 km                                   2.3 km
Olcott Mawatha
corridor
2. Maradana Junction  Additional bridge and associated road works    Additional bridge and associated road works
improvements
3. Technical assistance   (a) Columbo Urban transport Study   (a) Columbo Urban Transport Study
(b) Strengthening of NTC/PC's          (b) Strengthening of NTC/PC's
(i) Supply of computers and software and  (i) Supply of computers and software and
training                                 training
(ii) Bus route costing study           (ii) private bus crew training
(iii) Bus regulatory training          (iii) Oversees bus regulatory training
(c) SLR restructuring                    (c) SLR restructuring
(i) Restructuring study                (i) First phase of restructuring study 1994
(ii) Private sector involvement study  (ii) Commercial and PSO adviser to SLR 1994-
1999
(iii) Access adviser 1998,
(iv) accounting, property management and
stores management advisors
(v) Commercial training for SLR officials
(d) Air Quality Monitoring
(i) Procurement of air quality monitoring    (d) Air Quality Monitoring
equipment                              (i) Procurement of air quality monitoring
(ii) Consultancy services for air pollution  equipment
management      study                    (Hi) Training for modelling and analysis of data.



22
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as Defined                     Status         Impact of Study
Study                    at Appraisal/Redefined
Provided basis for
the Phase 2 of the
The study would develop long term transport plans                  study. It also
for the Greater Colombo Metropolitan  area.                        assisted in the
During the first phase, the study would undertake                  preparation of the
1. Colombo Urban   travel corridor analysis based an transport surveys, Published in 1995 and  1996 Transport
Transport Study   evaluate bus and rail modal choice, analyze  included numerous    Strategy Study as
(Phase 1)       economic and financial viability of investrnent working papers      well as numerous
options, and identify institutional reform  and                    policy working
policy action plans needed for the long-term                       papers etc
period.                                                            prepared for
GOSL
Workshop
concluded with
Prepare packages of capital schemes, institutional                 stakeholder in
2. Colombo Urban   strengthening and feasibility studies and to suggest Published in June  May 1999. In
Transport Study   associated policy reforms to assist in improving the  1999 and included 27  conjunction with
(Phase 2)       urban transport systems.                       working papers       phase d, CMC has
prepared an action
plan for traffic
management
schemes.
The consultancy
package was dropped,
3. Bus Regulatory   Train Bus Regulatory staff f in a variety of  but training on
Assistance      regulatory functions including route costing study.  computer software  Very limited.
and oversees bus
regulatory study tour
was undertaken.



23
SLRA not created
and study was
dropped after first
phase of consultants   The long term
work in 1994/95.     adviser played a
Commercial and       critical role in
Public Service       getting SLR to
Obligation Adviser    think about
4. Railway        Assist the newly created Sri Lanka railway     worked with SLR for  commercial issues.
Restructuring    Authority with implementation of the railway  1994-1999 assisting    Local consultants
Study           restructuring plan.                            the General Manager   did some good
and others on a wide   work but period
range of commercial   was too short to
orientation matters.    have much impact.
Local consultants
hired in first half of
1999 for accounting,
project and spares
management.
Study not carried out,  GOSL adopted
but access policy for   policy in 1997 and
private freight      completed
operators developed    negotiations with
5. Private Sector                                                during 1996.          one company in
Involvement in   Study areas for potential private involvement.  Transport Sector   1999. Further
SLR                                                            Strategy Study. Short  cement companies
term access adviser in  interested in
1998 for negotiations   operating rail
with private cement   freight service for
company.             their own product.
The objectives were to: (a) identify pollutants that
are reaching critical levels; (b) provide design                    Monitoring
parameters for a comprehensive air pollution   Study as such not    stations were key
6.Air Quality     management program, (c) develop the basis for  carried out. But some  component of
Monitoring and   establishing a policy framework to support air:  training was provided  Clean Air 2000
Manaiment        quality objectives; (d) develop a program to   for use and record   Action Plan and
Study           improve the scientific data base to support the  collecting of air   provided basis for
development of an air quality program and; (e)  quality monitoring  air quality
identify the prerequisites to strengthen the  equipment.            analysis.
institutional capabilities to plan and implement an
effective air quality program over the long-term.



24
TABLE 8A, PART 1- PROJECT COSTS IN US $
Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
(US $ million)                   (US $ million)
Local     Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign       Total
Item                             Costs       Costs                 Costs      Costs
1. TSM & INFRASTRUCTURE
(a) Pettah, Olcott & Fort           3.31       2.10       5.44        1.92      3.86       5.78
(b) Maradana Junction               0.97       3.13       4.10       1.46       2.87       4.33
(c) Implementation Support          0.02       2.89       2.91       0.00       3.82       3.82
(d) TSPC Support                    Not  included  in SAR            0.37       0.19       0.56
Sub-Total                               4.30       8.12      12.42        3.75      10.74     14.49
2. URBAN TRANSPORT PLAN                 0.48       1.12        1.60 j     0.00       1.38       1.38
3. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENTHENING
(a) National Transport Comm/PC      0.45       0.55       1.00       0.03       0.57       0.60
(b) Rail Restructuring              0.40       2.31       2.71       0.00       0.39       0.39
(c) Air Quality Management          0.09       0.51       0.60       0.13       0.36       0.49
Sub-Total                               0.94       3.37       4.31        0.16       1.32      1.48
TOTAL BASE COST                         5.72      12.61       18.33       3.91      13.44     17.35
Physical Contingencies                  0.50       0.78        1.28       0.00       0.00      0.00
Price Contingencies                     1.53       0.91        2.44       0.00       0.00      0.00
Project Preparation Facility            0.20       1.00        1.20       0.13       0.69       0.82
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      79        1530       23.5 1
(excluding  taxes)                       .  5.2__________________________
Taxes and Duties                        2.03       0.00        2.03 __________________________I
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      9.98      15.30      228          4.04      14.13      18.17
(including taxes)                 _
9.98  15.30  25.28      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0143 187



25
TABLE 8A, PART 2 - PROJECT IN SL Rs
Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
(SL Rs million)                 (SL Rs million)
Local    Foreign      Total       Local    Foreign     Total
Item                             Costs       Costs                 Costs      Costs
1. TSM & INFRASTRUCTURE
(a) Pettah, Olcott & Fort         144.97     93.14      238.11     122.00    244.97    366.97
(b)MaradanaJunction               42.68     137.72      180.40     93.17     182.44    275.61
(c) Implementation Support          0.88    127.16      128.04      0.00     242.66    242.66
(d) TSPC Support                    Not  included  in  SAR         23.61      12.30      35.91
Sub-Total                             188.53    358.02      546.55     238.78    682.37    921.15
2. URBAN TRANSPORT PLAN                21.12      49.28      70.40       0.00      87.23     87.23
3. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENTHENING
(a) National Transport Comm/PC     19.80     24.20      44.00       2.40      36.49      38.89
(b) Rail Restructuring             17.60    101.64      119.24      0.00      24.82      24.82
(c) Air Quality Management         3.96      22.44       26.40       8.32     22.91      31.23
Sub-Total                              41.36    148.28      189.64      10.72     84.22      94.94
TOTAL BASE COST                       251.01    555.58      806.59     249.50    853.82   1103.32
Physical Contingencies                 21.80      34.45      56.25       0.00       0.00      0.00
Price Contingencies                    67.40      40.29     107.69       0.00       0.00      0.00
Project Preparation Facility            8.80      44.00      52.80       8.80     44.00      52.80
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    349.01     674.32    1023.33
(excluding taxes)
Taxes and Duties                       89.02       0.00      89.02
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    438.03    674.32    1112.35      258.30    897.82   1156.12
(including taxes)



26
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)       Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ million)
Local       Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign        Total
Source              Costs         Costs                      Costs         Costs
IDA                     5.50         14.50        20.00         0.00          14.16        14.16
UNDP                    0.20         0.30          0.50         0.00          0.50          0.50
CANADA                  0.00         0.50          0.50         0.00          0.00          0.00
GOSL                   4.30          0.00          4.30         4.04          0.00         4.04
TOTAL                 10.00         15.30        25.30         4.04          14.66        18.70



27
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Annex B contains the details of the economic re-evaluation.
Summary of Evaluation Results (Olcott Mawatha)
(SL Rs millions)
SAR                  BR                  ICR
Total cost                         325.0               364.4                391.5
Total benefit                    2,666.4              1,730.1              2662.6
First year of benefits            1998                 1998                 1998
Project life (years)                 15                  10                   15
NPV (at 10% discount)              506.8                437.7               499.9
ERR                               28.4 %              29.5 %               29.7 %
C/B ratio                          n/a                  0.49                 0.31
Source: SAR; ICR Annex C; ICR Annex B - Tables B-1, B-2.
Summary of Evaluation Results (Maradana Junction)
(SL Rs millions)
SAR                  BR                  ICR
Total cost                         247.0               237.4                246.4
Total benefit                    1,167.6               823.9               1,222.7
First year of benefits            1997                 1998                 1998
Project life (years)                 15                  10                   15
NPV (at 10% discount)              198.8               133.8                 187.4
ERR                               23.8 %              24.6 %               22.3 %
C/B ratio                          n/a                  0.51                 0.45
Source: SAR; ICR Annex C; ICR Annex B - Tables B-3, B-4.
Summary of Evaluation Results (Fort Junctions)
(SL Rs millions)
SAR                  BR                  ICR
Total cost                         58.6
Total benefit                     437.5
First year of benefits            1996
Project life (years)                 1 5        This sub-component was not undertaken and
has not been re-evaluated.
NPV (at 10% discount)             111.3
ERR                              45.2 %
C/B ratio                          n/a
Source: SAR
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report (22 April, 1993)
BR - Borrower's Report (7 September, 1999)
ICR - Implementation Completion Report (December, 1999)



28
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agree    Section   Covenant Present   Original       Revised                 Description of                     Comments
ment                type     Status  fulfillmnent  fulfillment                Covenant
date         date
Schedule      01        C     09/30/1994                 Borrower shall maintain project       Fulfilled
4. 01 (b)                                                records ands accounts and submit
audited accounts to IDA.
Schedule      01        C    09/30/1994                  For the withdrawals made from Credit  Fulfilled
4    Accounts on the basis of statement of
4. 0 1 (c)                                               expenditures (SOEs), the Borrower
shall include all relevant records in the
annual audit reports as well as a
separate opinion, prepared by
independent auditors certifying that
SOEs submitted during the fiscal year
can be relied upon to support
withdrawals.
Schedule    Ol         C      09/30/1993                Borrower shall establish separate     Fulfilled
4.2 (a)                                                  accounts for activities related to the
Project.
Schedule      05        C     06/30/1993                 Borrower shall appoint heads of       Fulfilled
4.2(b)                                                   Project Accounts Department.
Schedule      09        C     07/31/1994                 Borrower shall furnish Project Progress Fulfilled
4.3 (a)                                                  Reports.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds              11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or its executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



29
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                            Planned            Revised           Actual
Project Cycle                    _
Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$    Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal                  2.00                               20.70   70.70
Appraisal-Board                           2.00                                16.90   53.40
Negotiations through Board Approval       6.00                                 1.80    6.00
Supervision                             62.00                               114.50  378.40
Completion                                8.00                                0.80   10.20
TOTAL                                   80.00                              154.70  518.70



30
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURSES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Number                   Specialized        Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of        Days in      Staff Skills         tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field     Represented           Status        Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal      Aug-88         I           10      SE                                                _
May-89         2          13       SE, RS                    -              -
Nov-90         3           8       (2) RE, SE                -              -
March-91       4           7       ML, RS, C, ENG            -              -
July-91        4          24       ML, RE, ENG, RCS          -              -
Appraisal through     June-92         1           12      SE                        -              -
Board Approval
Aug-92
Sep-92         1          13       ES                        -
Supervision           June-93         3          20       SE, TS, PROC              1
Dec-93         2          15       SE, C 
Dec-94         2          10       TE, Traff. S              S              S
March-95       2          11       TE, EE                    S              S
Mid-TerTn Review      March-97        4          12       TE, TEng, ML, ES          S              S
Oct-97         3          10       TE, ML, C                 S              S
March-98       2           8       TE, ES                    S              S
Oct-98         2           8       TE, TEng                  S              S
Completion            May-99          2          10       TE, C                     S              S
June-99        1           4       TE                        _              _
Staff Skills:
SE = Senior Economist                                   RS = Railway Specialist
ENG = Engineer                                           ML = Mission Leader
C = Consultant                                           TS = Transport Specialist
TE = Transport Economist                                 RCS = Rail Costing Specialist
ES = Environmental Specialist                            Traff S = Traffic Specialist
PROC = Procurement Specialist                            EE = Environment Engineer
TEng = Traffic Engineer
Performance Rating Key:
H = Highly Satisfactory                                  S = Satisfactory
U = Unsatisfactory                                       HU = Highly Unsatisfactory
M  = Managerial                                          E = Environmental



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2495-CE
APPENDIXES






SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CR. 2495-CE)
SUPERVISION/COMPLETION REPORT
Aide Memoire
May 25, 1999
ANNEX A






THE WORLD BANKIFC/M.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM                                                       FILE COPY
DATE:  June 2, 1999
TO:  Frannie Humplick, Sector Director, SASIN
THROUGH:  Juan Gaviria, Sr. Transport Economist, SASIN
FROM:  Stein Lundebye, Sr. Transport Specialist, SASIN
EXTENSION:  80148
SUBJECT:  SRI LANKA: Colombo Urban Transport Project (Cr. 2495-CE)
ICR Preparation and Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report-
May 1999
1.   In accordance with Terrns of Reference, dated May 5, 1999, the following
supervision team visited Sri Lanka during the period May 17 - 25, 1999, to supervise the
ongoing Colombo Urban Transport Project and a launch the Implementation Completion
Report process: Mr. Stein Lundebye, Mission Leader/Senior Transport Engineer (SASIN)
and Mr. William Denning, Transport Economist/consultant (TWUTD), and Mr. Sumith
Pilapitiya, Engineer - Environment & Infrastructure, joined the mission from the
Colombo Field Office who carried out supervision of the environmental component of
the project.
2.    Herewith we submit Form 590, Aide Memoire, draft letter to the Government and
the Covenant Compliance Statement for your review and confirmation.
Attachments:
1.    Form 590
2.    Aide Memoire
3.    Draft letter to GOSL, confirming the Aide Memoire Recommendations
4.    Status of Legal Covenants Compliance
Distribution A: Full Report
Messrs./Mmes.  R. Drysdale, M. Penalver, A. Litvak, A Byrne, J. Williamson
(SASVP); R.Zagha (SASPR); R. Ackermann (SASEN); L. Bennett
(SASSD); L. Lowenstein (SASPR); R. Bentjerodt, S. Pilapitiya
(SACCO); S. Lundebye, J. Tillman, W. Denning (SASIN); Correia da
Silva (LEGSA); V. Abraham (LOAAS)
SASIN Unit File
Distribution B: Cover Memo, Form 590 and Status of Legal Covenants Compliance
Messrs.        R. Picciotto (DGO)(2); A. Pellegrini (TWUDR)






PROJECT STATUS REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URB TRANSPOR (Project ID 10420 -- Credit No. 24950)
Current Version
Project Data                                              Project Performa ce Ratings
Board Approval:          05/1811993        Summary Ratings:                 Last  Now   Resettlement
Effectiveness Date:      08/18/1993         Achievement of PDO               S      S    Environment                S      S
Original Closing Date:   06/30/1999        Implementation Progress           S      S    Environmental Plan
Form. Rev. Closing Date:                   Other Ratings:                                Financial Covenants       NR    NR
No. of Extensions:       0                 Counterpart Funds                 S      S    Other Legal Covenants      S      S
PSR Date:                06/02/1999        Project Management                S      S    WID Impact                NR    NR
Latest Site Visit Date:  05/2511999         Procurement                      S      S    Monitoring & Ev luation    S      S
MTR Date:                03/01/1997                         Project Component Ratings                     Cost   Last  Now
MTR Scheduled For:                         TSM AND INFRASTRUCTURE                                           12.4    S      S
Restructuring Date.:     03/19/1997         URBAN TRANSPORT PLAN                                              1.6   S      S
Original Ln./Cr. Amt:    14.40SDRM         NTC/PC                                                            1.0    S      S
Revised Ln./Cr. Amt:                        RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING                                            2.7   U       S
Total Project Costs:     25.30USSM         AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT                                            0.6    S      S
NVotes: HS=High1j Satisfactory: S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory. HU=Highly Unsatisfactory  NANotApplicabhe NR=Not Razed Cost in USSM
Risk Ratings                  Last I Now                                                         Last   Now
Summary Risk Rating                            M       M     Macroeconomic policies/conditions
Generic Assunptions:                                         Sector policies/conditions                            M      M
World market conditionstprices                              Private sector response                                M      M
Local/National market conditions/prices                      Community/NGO support
Climatic/Environmental conditions                           Government Administrative capacity
Political/Security conditions                  M       M    Counterpart funding
Project-Specific Assumptions
NO OBSTRUCTIONS TO PEDESTRIANS                 NA    NA    SRI LANKA RAILWAYS WILLINGNESS TO                       S       S
DURING TRAFFIC OPERATIONS                                   IMPLEMENT ACCESS POLICY
RAILWAY TRADE UNIONS COOPERATE                NA    NA
FARE INCREASES IN BUS SERVICES                  S      S
PROPORTIONAL TO COSTS
Notes: H=High; S=Substantia/: M=Modest: N=Low or ANeglible: NA=Not Applicable; NR=A'ot Rated
Cumulative Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements: 9.31SDRM
___________________________________________                                Original Disbursement Lag(%):  35.1
c 16                                                                       Original Disbursement Lag(months):  35
=-E                                            -   u                          Expected Disbursements for FY99:
"  O 5            =>                              ~         ~                                    4th Quarter:  0.OSDRM
:z     m ~_,zm e--  7:                            Expected Disbursements for FY00:
-                                                   1 S S F - - x x - Ist Quarter:  0.OSDRM
2nd Quarter:  0.OSDRM
3rd Quarter:  0.OSDRM
Planned - - - - - Actual to-date    F.Revised
Project Development Objective (PDO)
1. (a) Remove transport bottlenecks and traffic congestion in Central Colombo that impose high costs on commercial and industrial establishments;
(b) develop long-term transport plans for the Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area and strengthen institutions concerned with urban transport; (c)
strengthen the managerial capabilities of the National Transport Commission (NTC) and Provincial Councils (PCs); (d) increase the efficiency of the
Sri Lanka Railways (SLR); and (e) promote adequate air quality standards and emission control measures.
Key indicators: Retrofitted indicators were developed and agreed upon with the Borrower in December 1996 andfinalized in March 199Z
Indicators of development outcome/impact include:
06/02/99                                                        1



(J) Bus services operate in a safe and efficient manner as measured by:
- reduction in number of accidents involving buses by 15% after project implementation
- operating losses ofpeoplized bus companies reduced by 25% after project implementation
(2) Levels of vehicle emissions reduced to meet Clean Air 2000 standards
(3) Railway restructuring done as measured by adoption and implementation of Open Access Policy Frameworkfor the SLR
PDO Rating Explanation
The physical civil works components have been completed, and they have had noticeable impact on reducing congestion in a key part of the city.
The only outstanding physical civil works is the completion of the office building, restrooms facilities and the installation of the bus shelters on
Bastian Mawatha. These works have been added to the original contract due to cost savings. The other components, being TA, are having less direct
impact, particularly since GOSL policy on railway and buses has changed since the project was approved in 1993. The TA components are,
however; contributing to a dialogue on urban transport with in GOSL and civil society. The air quality monitoring is establishing some institutional
strengthening to this area.
Current Project Status
All the civil works agreed at the project appraisal have been completed. Only the completion of the office building, provision of restrooms facilities
and the construction of the bus shelters is outstanding but these works will be completed before the closing of the credit (i.e. June 30, 1999). This
latter works have been added to the project due to the cost savings. The institutional strengthening of the National Transport Commission (NTC) and
Sri Lanka Railways (SLR) have progressed at a slow pace. Intemal management reforms are now being carried out by SLR to improve operating
efficiencies. The SLR has been encouraged to adopt a commercial orientation to enhance its competitiveness, especially in freight traffic. The
Strategic Business Unit (SBU) has been established and SLR has also now introduced the Open Access Policy and signed and agreement with a
private cement company. The project assistance to NTC has contributed to some strengthening of their managerial capabilities but limited progress
has been made to develop a strong bus industry in Sri Lanka.
The consultants for the Colombo Urban Transport Study - Phase 11 (CUTP-I1) have in a short time prepared many technical working papers on
proposed physical road infrastructure improvements, traffic management proposals, parking strategy and policy, bus sector operations, railway
operations and institutional arrangements.
CEA Board has made a decision to contract a suitable extemal agency to undertake ambient air quality monitoring on behalf of the CEA and submit
analyzed data to assist the CEA in its regulatory functions. But it appears that data collection has been on ad-hoc basis, therefore; the usefulness of
data collection without adequate analysis is a serious concern. Although there has been a significant amount of data collected during the program, it
appears that only trend analysis has been undertaken. Since financial support for the air quality monitoring program from the Colombo Urban
Transport Project will end in June 30, 199 due to Credit closure, the CEA was informed that there is a possibility of financing future activities under
the IDA financed Environment Action I Project (EAIP).
Summary of Key Issues and Actions                                          Date      Status
Entered
Issue:                                                                                                      06/02/1999     P
Action:CEA & NBRO to obtain quotes for consumables for the air quality monitoring equipment by June 30, 1999.
By Whom:CEA
By When:0613011999
Issue:                                                                                                      06/02/1999     P
Action:OMC 20: The implementation of the works with the installation fo the bus shelters should be completed by the
closing date of the credit.
By Whom:NTC
By When:06130/99
/ v  /f - 5Notes: N-New; P=Pending
Prepared By:                                                 ITeam Leader:  I LUNDEBYE
06/02/99                                                        2



Manager's Comments
JUAN GAVIRIA                                                       FRANNIE HUMPLICK
Sr Transport. Spec.                                                    Sector Director
06/02/99                                                         3






SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (CR 2495-CE)
ICR Preparation and Supervision Mission - May 1999
Draft Aide Memoire
I.    Introduction
1.    An IDA  Supervision mission comprising Mr. Stein Lundebye, Mission
Leader/Senior Transport Engineer (SASIN) and Mr. William Denning, Transport
Economist/consultant (TWUTD) visited Sri Lanka from May 17-25, 1999 to supervise
the ongoing Colombo Urban Transport Project and a launch the Implementation
Completion Report process. Mr. Sumith Pilapitiya, Engineer - Environment &
Infrastructure, joined the mission from the Colombo Field Office who carried out
supervision of the environmental component of the project.
2.    The mission wishes to thank the officials of the Ministry of Transport and
Highways (MOTH), the Transport Studies and Planning Center (TSPC), the Sri Lanka
Railways (SLR), the National Transport Commission (NTC), the Colombo Municipal
Council (CMC), the Central Environmental Authority (CEA), the National Building
Research Organization (NBRO), and the office of the Inspector General of the Police
(IGP) for the courtesies and co-operation extended to the mission.
3.    The following annexes are attached to this aide-memoire:
Annex 1:          List of persons met;
Annex 2:          List of CUTS-II Working Papers;
Annex 3:          Agenda for CUTS-II Workshop;
Annex 4:          Inaugural Address by H.E. Minister of Transport and Highways;
Annex 5:          Presentation on Traffic Management Council;
Annex 6:          Open Access Agreement;
Annex 7:          Final Project Account 1998
4.    This aide-memoire records the understandings and agreements reached among the
following concerned agencies of the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL): TSPC, SLR,
NTC, CMC, CEA, NBRO, and the mission.
5.    The mission's findings and recommendations are subject to confirmation by IDA
management.
1



II.   Progress on Civil Works and Equipment
6.    The physical works which consist mainly of localized road improvements are
progressing well with one exception, Ten contracts have been completed and the only
outstanding major contract is for the construction of bus shelters and facilities to be
provided at the Bastian Mawatha bus station (contract OMC20). The Air Quality
Monitoring Component of the project has been making some progress. The major delays
continue to be in the implementation of the institutional strengthening components of the
project concerning the National Transport Comrnission (NTC) and the Sri Lanka
Railways (SLR).
Phiysical Works
7.    The overall progress of the civil works components has been satisfactory. All the
original civil works contracts under the project have been completed: ( i.e., OMC 1, OMC
2, OMC 3, OMC 4, OMC 5, OMC 6, OMC 7 and OMC 12). The only civil works, which
have not been completed, are the following works related to the Bastian Mawatha bus
station (OMC 20): manager's office block, police post, toilet blocks and bus shelters.
These works were additional works added to the project since there were some cost
savings from the original project. The mission was informed that the construction
work would be completed by the end of June 1999. If the works is not completed
before the closing of the credit, any expenditures after that date have to be covered by the
Governnent. The CMC has completed all works related to the street lighting and road
markings.
8.    The installation of the central reservation fences along the Olcott Mawatha road
outside the Fort station has been completed and this has had a positive effect to channel
pedestrians on to the new footbridge. This ensures that the road safety objectives are
addressed. However, it was found that some of the panels were already broken and that
the median barrier should be extended (about 100 meters) towards Lotus Road in order
for the fence to be really effective near the bus laybys on the Northside of Olcott
Mawatha near the new footbridge. The mission pointed out that it was very important
that this work is completed in order to direct the pedestrians in a safe manner. Sample
surveys carried out by TSPC shows that about 85% of the pedestrians are now using the
footbridge to cross the street. This situation has improved the traffic flow on Olcott
Mawatha.
Supervision of Works
9.    The project consultants (W.S.Atkins Intemational Ltd) with the help of staff from
their local consultant partner are carrying out the supervision of the outstanding works for
the Bastian Mawatha bus station (Contract OMC20). This latter supervision work is
carried for the NTC and the Westem Province Road Passenger Authority. It has been
agreed earlier that a representative of the project consultants (WSA) will carry out the
2



final inspection and certification, including the release of the retention money for the ICB
contracts under the project.
III.  Transport Policy, Planning and Institutional Strengthening Components
A.   Transport Policy and Planning
The Colombo Urban Transport Study - Phase II (CUTS-II)
10.   As part of the on-going project, the Government has embarked on a major study -
Colombo Urban Transport Study Phase -II (CUTS-II). The main objectives of the study
are to prepare the basis for development of an integrated multi-modal urban transport
system that would make the most effective use of the current system components through
a combination of: (i) immediate and short term initiatives to remove capacity bottlenecks,
and (ii) medium and long term strategies and measures to meet transport needs arising
from urban growth in Colombo.
11.   The CUTS-II Study is well advanced. A team of international consultants (M/s
W.S. Atkins) and the University of Moratuwa is undertaking its implementation. The
consultants team have been very active since the start of the study, and consistent with the
Inception Report prepared in January 1999, a large number of technical working papers,
covering the sectors and issues agreed in the Inception Report, have been prepared. (see
Annex 2 for a list of the working papers). The full scope of the work covers the
following activities: (i) Inception Report, (ii) documentation on policy, regulation and
institutional actions; (iii) feasibility studies for priority infrastructure projects; (iv) traffic
management and safety improvement programs and schemes; and (v) development of an
Action Plan, covering the above issues. The mission was informed that the members of
the Steering Committee and the working groups established for this study, have provided
useful comments and inputs to the CUTS-II reports, prepared by the consultants. It is
expected that the Draft Final Report by the consultants will be completed before
June 30, 1999.  The Government and IDA will thereafter undertake a review of the
report and expect the consultants to incorporate the comments and finalize the report on
or before August 1999.
12.   The MOTH with the support of the CUTS-II consultants arranged a Workshop on
the "Institutional Aspects of Traffic Management" on May 21, 1999. The mission
participated in this workshop together with high level Government officials from
concerned agencies (e.g., MOTH, CMC, RDA, CMT, IGP, SLR, NTC, UDA, NDC,
CTB, WP and various Municipal Commissioners from the Greater Colombo
Metropolitan Area). H.E. the Minister of Transport and Highways presented the Inaugural
Address, and a copy of his presentation can-be found in Annex 3. The main objective of
the workshop was to discuss the future organization for traffic management in Sri Lanka.
3



The workshop explored the interfaces between institutional stakeholders in traffic
management, the possible formulation of a co-ordination body to develop a traffic
management policy. Furthermore, there were discussions on appropriate methods of
implementation of the policy at local level, and the need for institutional change and
strengthening of local stakeholders. (see Annex 4 for a copy of the Workshop Agenda
and Annex 5 for a copy of the main presentation by the CUTS-II consultant team).
13.   Since the last mission, the TSPC has prepared a Concept Paper on urban transport
infrastructure which gives an outline of a possible future project for the Government of
Sri Lanka to develop and implement major transport sector improvements together with
key reforms. The proposed project would help to fund infrastructure rehabilitation,
improvements to selected expansions, to improve the metropolitan transport system,
support comprehensive transport planning and reforms in order to assure sustainability of
the system. The mission was informed that the recommendations from the Concept Paper
have been included in the 6-year Development Plan prepared by GOSL. TSPC is also
preparing a White Paper on the transport sector and the draft is expected by July 1999.
IDA expects that this paper should address some of the key issues and recommendations
presented in the Transport Sector Strategy paper, prepared jointly by the Government and
IDA in 1996.
Urban Transport Strategy Note
14.   During the mission a Workshop was held to discuss with key stakeholders issues
related to the institutional organization of the urban transport and traffic management in
Colombo. The discussions included the possible establishment of a high-level Traffic
Management Council (represented by Secretaries of Government), with a Technical Unit,
and a Traffic management Secretariat in MOTH in charge of coordinating
implementation.
15.  It has become apparent that the follow-up to the CUTS-II will require a concerted
urban transport, which involves key stakeholders (private and public) and sets priorities
and directives on how to address the urban transport challenges in the city. The
aforementioned Urban Transport Strategy could be prepared on the basis of the
substantial body of knowledge, which results from the implementation of CUTP and the
good progress and work in progress by the Consultants in charge of the CUTS-II Study.
Along these lines the mission agreed with the Government that the Bank will lead an
effort to prepare an Urban Strategy Note with a draft planned to be completed on or
before December 1999. The Bank team in charge will consist of Mr. Slobodan Mitric,
Principal Transport Specialist, and Mr. Stein Lundebye, mission leader.
16.   The mission and the Government agreed that Mr. Mitric will visit Colombo on or
about June 15, 1999 to discuss with the Consultant team the various Working Papers with
a view to provide feedback for the draft Final Report and start the preparation of the
Urban Transport Strategy Note.
4



TSPC Transport Sector Data Bank
17.   The TSPC have acquired fixed assets consisting of computers, computer
accessories, photocopying machines, fax machines, traffic counting equipment and other
related items under the project. Furthermore, under the CUTP project, furniture and
vehicles were purchased to strengthen the UNDP project and planning capabilities of the
TSPC/MOTH and also to assist the concerned line agencies. The Bank is of the view that
the transport planning work has to be continued with the resources acquired under the
project in order to undertake donor funded transport project activities in addition to the
regular transport data bank and planning work. The mission requested MOTH to
submit a plan to IDA regarding the future plan for the TSPC before June 30, 1999.
B.   National Transport Commission (NTC) and Provincial Councils (PC)
Specialized Trainingfor Bus Crews
18.   The mission was informed that NTC has already organized training and carried
out a program for existing private sector bus drivers and conductors in all provinces. Up
to April 30, 1999, a total of about 18,000 persons have been trained out of a total planned
program for 20,000 persons covering all private sector crews. The Bank has requested an
independent evaluation to be carried out of the effectiveness of the training program. It is
expected that the evaluation report will be available after May 31, 1999. The mission
requested that a copy of the evaluation report should be forwarded to the Bank for
review and comments by June 15, 1999.
Monitoring of Bus Services
19.   NTC reported that all Provincial Councils had now been supplied with Personal
Computers for public transport purposes under the project and that monitoring software,
developed by the University of Colombo, had been installed in all these computers. Staff
at the Provincial Councils has now been trained to use the software. This software also
includes provision for recording road accidents involving bus drivers. Software for route
monitoring and rotated timetables for each operator have been prepared and tested on
NTC permits. The mission requested that a copy of this software should be sent to
the Bank by June 30, 1999.
Staff Training
20.   The first group of personnel involved in NTC and PC bus regulation was sent to
the UK in October 1998 for training in regulatory practices relating to bus services and
crew training practices. The Bank has received the report on this study tour, and one of
the conclusions from the group was that Sri Lanka should consider to adopt some of the
relevant practices of the British Transport Authorities with the necessary modifications in
order for them to be applicable here. It was also further reported by NTC that a follow-up
5



seminar was arranged in Feb. 1999. A proposal for a second group to be sent to U.K. has
been received, and the Bank reviewed the Government's proposal. The mission did not
agree with the revised list of candidates for training considering the Credit closing done
of June 30, 1999 and the fact that most candidates are retired staff on contract extension.
The mission consider that the personnel sent on a study tour/training assignment should
remain in service for several years after completion of such training, and should be
required to share the experience, knowledge and skills obtained from the tour to their
colleagues in the bus transport sector. It was also earlier agreed between the Bank and
GOSL that the second batch of officers to be sent for overseas training should be
Provincial Council officials who are in active service..
Bus Stations
21.   The supervision consultants informed the mission, that there were implementation
problems with the contractor (Elemech Engineers (Pvt.) Ltd.). All shelters are almost
completed but very little progress was achieved with works on the buildings during the
month of April 1999. There are some concerns that the contractor will not be able to
complete the contract before the closing of the credit, i.e., June 30, 1999. The mission is
recommending that GOSL emphasize to the contractor the importance of completing the
works on time otherwise the Government would have provide funding from own
resources to finalize the works.
22.   The NTC requested IDA during the previous supervision mission for some
financial assistance to rehabilitate part of the People's Park bus station in Colombo.
However, due to the short period left until closing of the credit, it was not possible to
complete all the required procurement arrangements and therefore the proposed
additional works was not possible.
Repair of Bus Bays
23.   NTC informed the mission that the bus bays, which had been proposed for
rehabilitation were mainly located outside the CMC area, and therefore this work was
not undertaken due to the fact that there was not sufficient time available to carry out new
surveys, preparing designs and bid documentation, and carry out the physical works
before the closing of the credit.
C.    Sri Lanka Railways (SLR)
24.   The mission met with senior SLR  officials to discuss the progress in
implementing the access policy for development of freight operations by the private
sector and the progress of other technical assistance to SLR under the project.
25.   A draft access policy for private sector freight operations on SLR tracks has been
prepared by the Strategic Business Unit (SBU) and has been circulated for observations
6



and comments. Subject to those observations a final version of the policy will be sent to
Cabinet for approval. The Cabinet has already approved (October 1997) the concept of
open access.
26.   Concurrent to the development of the open access policy, SLR has continued
negotiations with Puttalam Cement on their proposed access and own freight operation.
The operation uses approximately 39 km of track, about 10 km of which were Puttalam
Cement spur tracks and about 6 km on which SLR will continue to run passenger service.
The terms and conditions for a formal agreement have largely been settled. Agreement
was assisted by the help of an intemational expert (Mr. Anson Jack of Railtrack in the
UK) who was brought to Sri Lanka through project funding in November 1998. These
terms and conditions have now been implemented in an interim agreement, which allows
the private operation to begin while resolving the remaining outstanding issues. The
outstanding issues cover areas where SLR needs to prepare standards or specifications.
These include track maintenance standards, train crew qualifications, and safety rules.
During this interim period SLR will provide train crews, maintain train tracks and
maintain rolling stocks under separate contract to Puttalam Cement.
27.   Under the interim agreement private operations commenced at the beginning of
May 1999. With much of the existing track work continuing to be done by SLR crews
there has been little or no effect on SLR staff levels to date. After full private operation
begins it is expected that displaced SLR staff will take up existing vacant positions within
50 to 100 km of their current work location.
28.   The progress of the other CUTP assistance to SLR has been as follows:
(i) Local consultants for accounting systems, property development, and materials
management have now been appointed.
(ii) It has not been possible to hire an international specialist in computer MIS. The
tasks which had been expected of such a person, (a) staff training, (b) develop an
Operating Information System (OIS), and (c) develop a revenue accounting system,
will now not take place under the project. Specifications for an OIS were prepared
by the PSO advisor and have been accepted by SLR, but have not been put into
effect. National Institute of Business Management using SLR funds will do training.
(iii) The proposed feasibility study on a public/private partnership for improvement
of the Colombo-Veyangoda suburban services (including possible electrification)
was approved by the Ministry of Transport and Highways (MOTH) only after
considerable delay. There is not enough time remaining in the project to allow this
study to be completed by the end of June and so it has been dropped.
(iv) IDA has received papers produced by GOSL/SLR officials who attended
management training activities in August and September 1998.
7



29.   The mission learned that the PSO advisor will be staying on with SLR until June
30, 1999.
30.   The mission was informed that SLR has prepared a draft Cabinet paper on
"Functional Reorganization of SLR and Establishment of a Railway Management
Council". This paper is currently being circulated for discussion in MOTH. A second
cabinet paper has been drafted to establish a Railway Property Management Company as
an entirely owned subsidiary of SLR, to identify and commercially develop railway
lands.
31.   The mission also learned that joint commercial development of several station
sites is under consideration. One site could involve a combined bus and train station.
Substantial improvements in accounts payable have been made by using local banks to
pay salaries at major pay locations. Banks are now collecting revenue at Fort and
Maradana stations and discussions are under way to involve banks in revenue collection
at other locations.
D.   Air Quality Monitoring Component
32.   The mission reviewed the status of the air quality-monitoring program and noted
that the two fixed stations were in operation. However, the issue of poor support services
for the equipment continues to plague the program. NBRO is handicapped by the lack of
a local agent with technical capabilities to service and maintain the equipment. Any
technical support provided, is through the equipment supplier in Australia and is not done
in a timely manner. In order to minimize the downtime of the equipment, the Credit
supported training of six technical staff members--three each from CEA and NBRO--by
the supplier in Australia, on basic troubleshooting, operation and maintenance of the
equipment. This has resulted in improved performance, although a few problems still
exist.
33.   The mission noted that the ozone analyzer in the Fort Railway Station site is not
functioning due to calibration problems. The carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and ozone
analyzers, as well the wind direction sensor at the baseline data-gathering site at the
Meteorology Department is not functional. As the warranty period for the equipment
expired in December 1998, the IDA supervision mission in October 1998 had agreed with
GOSL that a service agreement for operation and maintenance of the equipment would be
in place by December 31, 1998. The mission had also reached agreement with GOSL
that CEA and NBRO jointly finalize quotes, for procurement under local shopping, of
consumables that needed for the air quality-monitoring program for 1999, and informn
IDA by December 31, 1998. The mission noted that neither of the above have been
done, which calls into question the commitment both NBRO and CEA have for the
air quality monitoring program.
8



34.   NBRO has commenced a program of monitoring air quality in secondary cities--
with the mobile unit--to establish baseline data during the Northeast and Southwest
monsoons.  The cities identified in this phase of the program  are Hambantota,
Anuradapura, Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, Puttalam  and Ambawela.  The program  at
Hambantota has been completed and the Anuradapura monitoring program is on-going.
At IDA's recommendation, a short course on air pollution modeling--supported by the
Credit--was conducted for staff of NBRO and CEA by Prof. Michael Allen, from the
University of Auckland, New Zealand, while on sabbatical leave at the University of
Peradeniya. This was supplemented by additional training in the use of statistical
computer packages as well.
35.   The mission expressed its serious concerns with regard to the usefulness of ad-hoc
data collection without adequate analysis. Although there has been a significant amount
of data collected during the program, it appears that only trend analysis has been
undertaken. The data collected in 1997 has shown that ambient levels for S02 has
already reached the maximum permissible limit and ozone has exceeded the set limit.
While this information is useful, the mission noted that no actions or recommendations
for actions to reverse the trend of deterioration in air quality in the metropolitan area have
been attempted. This leads the mission to question the overall achievement and
sustainability of objectives of the air quality-monitoring program.
36.   The mission was informed that the CEA Board had reversed an earlier decision to
take over the operations of the air quality monitoring equipment at the end of 1999. The
mission is pleased to note that the CEA Board decision is to contract out to a suitable
extemal agency to undertake ambient air quality monitoring on behalf of the CEA, and
submit analyzed data to assist the CEA in its regulatory functions. Since financial
support for the air quality monitoring program from the Colombo Urban Transport
Project will end on June 30, 1999 due to Credit closure, the mission informed the CEA
that there is a possibility of financing future activities under the IDA financed
Environrnent Action I Project (EA1P). However, the mission informed the CEA that
EA1P financing will be available only for a focused, outcome oriented program of
air quality monitoring, with GOSL commitment to undertake policies to reverse the
trend of deteriorating air quality. The mission requested CEA to submit a proposal
that would address the above issues, for IDA consideration, by June 15, 1999.
IV.   Financial Status of the Project
Disbursement and Financial Management
37.   Project disbursement to date total SDR 9.3 mill. amounting to 65 % of the IDA
credit. The TSPC expects that the final account will show that about 25 % of the credit
funds will not be used. The mission reviewed the accounting and internal control systems
of the project and found it satisfactory. The-audit report for 1998 will soon be submitted
to IDA. The report will show that there are no indications of any serious accountability
9



issues. A copy of the 1998 expenditure statement for the IDA contribution, the
Govermnent of Sri Lanka contribution and the overall summary of expenditures can be
found in Annex 7.
V.   Learning and Innovation
38.   During the CUTS-II workshop on May 21, 1999 (ref. to para. 12), the participants
discussed immediate and short-term measures that can help the City of Colombo to
relieve the traffic congestion and improve the road safety situation. The participants
endorsed the need to have a concerted effort for the following actions: (i) developing a
focal point for urban transport management reform  ( i.e.,  setting up a Traffic
Management Couancil); (ii) the need to implement some low-cost traffic engineering
demonstration projects which can assist in removal of infrastructure "bottlenecks" on
priority corridors and to provide improvements in traffic management and road safety.
39.   Without creating  any  expectations, the  mission  discussed  briefly  the
characteristics of a new lending product, which the World Bank offers called the
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). In this context, a LIL project could be one
mechanism to assist the Government to carry out these activities, if these
recommendations are prioritized in the proposed urban transport strategy.
VI.  Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
40.   The purpose and content of ICR reporting was discussed with TSPC. TSPC was
provided with fuither ICR documentation includinig (i) a sample of a recently completed
ICR (Punjab Urban Project), and (ii) excerpts from the SAR on the economic evaluation.
This is in additioni to ICR documentation and examples provided in earlier missions. The
mission reviewed and commented on material made available by TSPC including a very
preliminary draft of the Borrower's Contribution to the ICR.
41.   The purpose and content of ICR reporting was also discussed with implementing
agencies to be sw-e they were aware of this part of the project process. Opinions on their
experiences under the project were solicited
Borrowers Contribution to ICR
42.   The mission reminded TSPC that in accordance with the "General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements", the Borrower is required to prepare its
own evaluation report on the project and submit this to the Bank by August 31, 1999.
The evaluation report/summary, which is attached unedited to the ICR, should include:
10



(I) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation and operation
experience; (ii) a re-evaluation of the economic rate of return (ERR) for each project
component and an aggregated ERR for the overall project to compare with the
calculated in the SAR, (iii) an evaluation of Borrower's own performance during the
evolution and implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned
that may be relevant in the future; and (iv) the evaluation of the performance of the Bank
and any co-financiers during the evolution and implementation of the project, including
effectiveness of the relationship among the Borrower, the Bank and co-financiers, with
special emphasis on lessons learned, (v) project sustainability as measured by an
Operation Plan for each project component which has on-going activities.
43.   Specific items, which are required, include: (i) updating of the key indicators of
project implementation and project operation, (ii) total project costs for local currency
and foreign currency costs.
44.   The mission discussed with TSPC the preparation of the ICR for the project and
handed over copies of IDA policies and guidelines for the preparation of the ICR. The
mission informed TSPC that they would forward some more examples of completed ICR
reports for the transport sector. The compilation of relevant data should now begin and
analysis should be carried out for the various project components.
VII. Next Steps
45.   The mission agreed with GOSL officials that the following steps should be
undertaken.
Physical Works/Equipment
(i)   Contact OMC 20:  The implementation of the ongoing civil works, e.g.,
administration building, toilet facilities, police post and installation of the bus shelters at
the Bastian Mawatha bus station should be completed by June 30, 1999;
Transport Policy and Planning
(ii)   Government and IDA to provide comments on CUTS-II Technical Working
Papers before June 15, 1999, and comments on Draft Final Report by July 30 1999;
(iii)  The CUTS-II consultants to complete Draft Final Report by June 30, 1999 and
Final report by August 30, 1999;
(iv)  TSPC to complete Draft White Paper on Transport before July 30, 1999;
(v)   IDA to prepare Urban Transport Strategy Note by December 31, 1999;
11



(vi) MOTH to submit a report to IDA on the future plan for the TSPC by June 30,
1999.
Institutional Issues - NTC
(vii) NTC to submit to IDA a copy of the evaluation report of the bus driver training
program by June 15, 1999.
Institutional Issues - Environment
(viii) CEA. to submit to IDA by June 15, 1999, a proposal for contracting out the AQM
program.
SL/CUTP
A:\amO599.doc
05/19/99 10:40 AM
12



11/06 '99 10:12  FkS 94 1 440357              WORLD BANK LA\KA -  SASIN T                   Qo1
The World Bank                                   CoIwrbo 0aw             Taoni.: 432M84aW74417I
ONrEPXATIONALA K FOR RECONSTIUCflON AND DEVELOPMET   a Po D.wF.0. FC     Fax: z03v
WTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMSHTASSOCIATION              73i5, GAM Roa.          CaeleMcknm: NTDAFIAD COLOiMo
CoD 3.                 Malang Addtes: P. O. BOX 1781
oc~  avL<                       V- .uA W&A                               C(olato 3. Sri Ln
A s--v-=- .,
f P PI   ..    -               -.
cli:.   --       _      -____                iJune 9, 1999
Mr Dixon Nilawera-
Secmt.asy                            Poti4t' Fax Note    7671  0511 161  iI     of o
Ministry of Finance and Planning      r                 9     F _____
The Secretariat                       cc PL                               C1Co.  V% - C
Colombo I 1
-ax W                   Fax               _
Dear Mr. Nflaweera
Sri Lanka: Colombo Urban Transport Project (Cr.2495 - CE)
Supervision Mission
I would like to thank you for the courtesies and cooperation extended by all
concemed officials to the IDA's last mission. which visited Sri Lanka from May 17-25,
1999 to supervise the above project and to discuss the draft Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the project. We particularly thank you and your colleagues at the
Ministry and officials and the key stake holders who participated in a workshop held on
May 21. 1999 and discussed the main findings of the Colombo Urban Transport Study -
Phase II and in particular, the instiutional aspects of tafflc management in Sri Lanka.
The mission has reported to IDA on its findings which are based on its aide
memoire dated May 24, 1999. I am glad to endorse the various suggestions and
recom.mendations contained in the aide memoire.
I am pleased to note that GOSL have discussed future directions, dialogue and
areas for IDA assistance in urban transport sector in Sri Lanka.
With best regards,                                                             5 
Sincerely yours,
Mariana Todorova
Country Director
CC: Mr G Hewagama, Secretary, Ministry of Transport and Highways _ T
Mr. Faiz Mobideen, Director Gencral, External Resources Departnent         m
Mr. M. Jayasinghe, Chairman, Road Development Authority              :
CD 0 S
Headquanter: WUNington. O. C.. U. S. A.



Legal Covenant Report: Status of Covenanit Compli:nce - Full llistory                                                                                                               Page:   I
Division: SASIN - Infrastructure Sector Unit                                                                                                                              Program: PCLCR2
Sorted by: Project ID                                                                                                                                          Run Dome: 06/02/99 at I 0  I Z 119
Product Line: Lending (PE,SF)
Project ID: LK-PE-10420 - COLOMBO URB TRANSPOR
Original      Entry/        Revised
CoveOanet        Fulfill    Form 590        Fulfill
Cl-es(s)          Date         Date          Data      Status Description of Covenant                                    Coments
Agreement:DCA
CNuenaer: IDA  -24950
Covenant: 4.01 (b)
01            09/30/1994                                       Borrower shall maintain project records and
accounts and submit audited accounts to IDA.
112 12995  11/30/1994  C                                                                     Financial Statements FY93 (coincides with CY in
Sri Lanka) Audit Report was submitted in November
04/1l.1995  11/30/1994  C                                                                    i nancial Statements FY93 (coincides with CY in
Sri Lanka) Audit Report was submitted in November
1994
03/27/1997  11/30/1994  C                                                                    FAnancial Statements FY93 (coincides with CY In
Sri Lanka) Audit Report was submitted in November
1994.
12/19/1997  11/30/1994  C                                                                   Audit reports for FY1996 were received on July 23,
1997.
05/05/1998  11/30/1994  C                                                                   Audit reports for FY1996 were received on July 23,
1997.
Covenant: 4.01 (c)
01            09/30/1994                                       For withdrawals made from Credit Account on the
hasis of statement of expenditures (SOEs), the
Borrower shall includo all relevanit records In
theannual audit reports as well as a separate
opinion, prepared by independent auditors
certify-ing that SOEs submitted during the fiscal
year canbe relied upon to support withdrawals.
12/28/1994  11/30/1994  C                                                                   Complied with in November 1994.
04/11/1995  11/30/1994  C                                                                    Complied with in November 1994.
03/27/1997  11/30/1994  C                                                                   Complied with in November 1994.
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Status of Covenant Compliance - Full hlistory                                                                                                                Page:   2
Division: SASIN - Infrastructure Sector Unit                                                                                                                              Program: PCLCR2
Sorted by: Project ID                                                                                                                                          Run Date: 06/02/99 at 7.17.19
Product Line: Lending (PE,SF)
Project ID: LK-PE-10420 - COLOMBO URB TRANSPOR
Original      Entry/        Revised
Covenant        Fulfill    Form 590         Fulfill
Class t-)        Date          Dote          Date      Status Description of Covenant                                    Comments
01            09/30/1994  12/19/1997  11/30/1994  C                                                                      Complied with in November 1994.
05/05/1998  11/30/1994  C                                                                    Complied with in November 1994.
Covenant: Sch. 4, 2 (a)
01            09/30/1993                                       Borrower shall establish separate accounts for
activities related to the Project.
12/28/1994                C                                                                  The accounts were opened in September 1993.
04/11/1995                 C                                                                 The accounts were opened in September 1993.
03/27/1997                C                                                                  The accounts were opened in September 1993.
12/19/1997                C                                                                  The accounts were opened in September 1993.
05/05/1998                 C                                                                 The accouints were opened in September 1993.
Covenant: Sch. 4, 2 (h)
05            06/30/1993                                       rnorrowot shall appoint heads of Project Accounts
Dlepartment.
12/28/1994                C                                                                  Complied with on June 18, 1993.
04/11/1995                 C                                                                 Complied with on Juine 18, .1993.
03/27/1997                c                                                                  Complied with on June 18, 1993.
12/19/1997                C                                                                  Complied with on June 18, 1993.
05/05/1998                 C                                                                 Complied with on June 18, 1993.
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected io Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Status of Covenant Compliance - Full hlistory                                                                                                                Page:  3
Division: SASIN - Ilfrastructure Sector Unit                                                                                                                              Program: PCLCR2
Sorted by: Project ID                                                                                                                                          Run Date: 06/02/99 at 17.17.19
Product Line: Lending (PE,SF)
Project ID: LK-PE-10420 - COLOMBO URB 1RANSPOR
Original      Entry/        Revised
Covenant         Fulfill    Form  590       Fulfill
Class ($)         Date         Date          Date      Status Description of Covenant                                    Com,ents
Covenant: Sch. 4, 3 (a)
09            07/31/1994                                       Borrower shall furrnish Project Proqress Reports.
12/21/1994  12/31/1994  C                                                                   Last Progress Report dated December 1994 was
received by IDA on 02/01/95.
04/11/1995  12/31/1994  C                                                                    Last Progress Report dated December 1994 was
received by IDA on 02/01/95.
03/21/i997  12/31/1994  C                                                                    Last Progress Report dated December 1994 was
received by IDA on 02/01/95.
12/19/1997  12/31/1994  C                                                                    Last Progress Report dated December 1994 was
received by IDA on 02/01/95.
05/05/1998  12/31/1994  C                                                                    Last Progress Report dated December 1994 was
received by IDA on 02/01/95.
Status:
C      Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reaso nably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due



Report: PCLCR2 - Status of Covenant Compliance - Full History     Run Date: 6/2/99 5:17:25 PM
User ID: TMSAS03, User Division: ISGSR
Selection Criteria for Report:
Product Line                                                  :'PE','SF'
Project ID                                                    : 10420






SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CR. 2495-CE)
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
ANNEX B






1
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2495 CE)
ANNEX B
Economic Evaluation
1.    The economic evaluation for the ICR is based on the evaluation provided in the
Borrower's Report (BR), see Annex C, and some additional analysis. The principle
results of the BR are repeated here. Improvements to two Transport System Management
(TSM) project components, the Olcott Mawatha corridor and Maradana Junction, were
subject to economic re-evaluation. The third TSM component, Fort Junctions, was
dropped from the project due to security issues and is not re-evaluated. This annex also
discusses the appropriateness of the economic evaluation undertaken at appraisal. Each
TSM component is discussed separately below.
2.    The Borrower's evaluation is described in Annex C, however two points will be
mentioned here on the method employed. The SAR evaluation used the SATURN traffic
network model to analyse present and future traffic flows for "with" and "without"
project cases. The Transportation Studies and Planning Centre (TSPC) repeated the same
modelling exercise for the BR using present traffic flows with the project and simulated a
"without" project case. With the TSPC being disbanded the details of the modelling
exercise and present day traffic volumes are not available for examination.
3.    An overall ERR has also been calculated based on summing the net costs of each
TSM component. It shows a combined ERR of 27% compared to 26% in the SAR.
Olcott Mawatha
4.    The economic costs of the Olcott Mawatha corridor rehabilitation component are
composed of construction, equipment, and maintenance cost. The actual economic
construction and equipment costs are summarised below:
Economic Investment Costs (Olcott Mawatha)
Year                 Costs (SL Rs million)
Construction   Road Furniture     Total
& Equipment
1994        32.382          0.441           32.823
1995        42.399          9.555           51.954
1996        63.630          8.260           71.890
1997        64.827          23.303          88.130
1998        21.882          0.000           21.882



2
1999         21.343    l        11.095     32.438
Source: Annex C
5.    The additional maintenance costs of the rehabilitated section of the Olcott
Mawatha corridor were obtained from the Colombo Municipal Council (periodic and
routine) over the life of the project. In the SAR a percentage of the total construction cost
had been used, 1 % per annum for Olcott Mawatha portion.
6.    Average speeds have increased as a result of the project. If the project have be
implemented as originally planned, with co-ordinated timing of traffic signals, the
average speeds would have been higher.
Change in Average Speed (Olcott Mawatha)
Volune/Capacity ratio    Average Vehicle Speed (km/h)
1991              1999
0.0 - 0.5            25.0              34.5
0.5 - 0.6            21.9              32.2
0.6 - 0.7            19.7              25.5
0.7 - 0.8            17.5              23.0
0.8 - 0.9            16.2              20.0
0.9- 1.0             15.0              15.0
> 1.0           not available         12.0
Source: SAR, and Annex C
7.    The economic benefits of the rehabilitated section of the Olcott Mawatha corridor
include savings in vehicle operating costs and passenger time costs, as summarized in the
following text table. Carbon reduction and air pollution reduction benefit is not included,
as the SAR had not included these benefits in its economic evaluation. The project
benefits were derived 37% from VOC savings and 63% from passenger time savings.
The high passenger time benefit arises because areas adjacent to Olcott Mawatha are
centres for passenger movement containing both major bus and passenger rail terminals.
Economic Benefits (Olcott Mawatha)
(SL Rs millions)
Year    VOC Savings   Time Savings    Total Benefits
1998        24.42           40.20           64.62
1999        30.89           48.40           79.30
2000        39.08           58.28           97.36
2001        49.44           70.18           119.61
2002        62.54           84.50           147.04



3
2003        65.10           97.00           162.09
2004        67.76          111.34          179.10
2005        70.53          127.80           198.34
2006        73.42          146.70          220.12
2007        75.49          151.96          227.45
2008        77.62           157.40         235.02
Source: Annex C
8.    A conventional set of economic evaluation indicators has been calculated for
Olcott Mawatha. Three sets of calculations have been performed. The first replicates the
analysis done in the SAR. The second tries to replicate the evaluation undertaken in the
Borrower's Report (BR), although it does not succeed precisely. The third is an
independent analysis undertaken for the ICR. The BR limited its analysis to a ten year
project horizon because of uncertainty in the dynamic conditions of Colombo urban
traffic. The SAR handles this issue by assuming a cap for benefits after the seventh year.
9.    For the ICR the re-evaluation was calculated using the details of the BR
evaluation with two modifications. First, the starting year of the evaluation was pushed
back to 1993 to match the analysis of the SAR. Second, the figures for the final year
(year 10) of the project were assumed to carry forward for an additional five years, so
that the length of the project would match the SAR analysis. This ICR analysis
reconciles the actual cost and benefit figures shown in the BR with the project timing and
project life assumptions of the ICR (see also paragraphs 15, 16 below on the SAR's
evaluation). The details are shown in Tables B-1 and B-2 at the end of this Annex. A
summary is presented in the following text table:
Summary of Evaluation Results (Olcott Mawatha)
(SL Rs millions)
SAR              BR               ICR
Total cost                  325.0            364.4            391.5
Total benefit              2,666.4          1,730.1          2662.6
First year of benefits      1998             1998             1998
Project life (years)          15               10               15
NPV (at 10% discount)       506.8            437.7            499.9
ERR                        28.4 %           29.5 %           29.7 %
C/B ratio                   n/a              0.49             0.31
Source: SAR, Annex C, Tables B-1, B-2.



4
10.   The BR shows a lower NPV for this component largely because it used a ten year
project life in its analysis. The ICR shows a slightly lower NPV for this component
because costs were higher than expected at appraisal. Despite lower construction costs
(Rs 56 million less) the non-construction capital costs and the ongoing maintenance costs
were higher than assumed (Rs 33 million and Rs 90 million more, respectively). The
ERRs calculated in both the BR and ICR matched the SAR estimate reasonably closely.
A cost/benefit ratio was not estimated in the SAR.
Maradana Junction
11.   The economic costs of the Maradana Junction Improvement component are
composed of construction, equipment and maintenance costs only. As in the SAR
environmental benefits are not included. The construction and equipment costs are
summarized below as executed by the CMC. The additional maintenance costs of the
Maradana Junction component for the remainder of the project's life were obtained from
the Colombo Municipal Council. In the SAR, 0.5% per annum of the Maradana Junction
total construction cost had been used as a maintenance cost estimate.
12.   The economic benefits of the Maradana Junction Improvement includes savings
in vehicle operating costs and passenger time costs, as summarized in the following text
table. Average speeds have increased and journey times have decreased as a result of the
improvements. As with Olcott Mawatha, if the project have be implemented as originally
planned, with co-ordinated timing of traffic signals, the average speeds would have been
higher. Project benefits were derived 61% from VOC savings and 39% from passenger
time saving. This proportion is very close to the benefits estimated in the SAR (i.e., VOC
saving of 60% and passenger time saving of 40%).
Economic Investment Costs (Maradana Junction)
Year                 Costs (SL Rs million)
Construction    Road Furniture    Total
& Equipment
1994                 _
1995        46.732            -            46.732
1996        85.799          15.988         101.787
1997        55.293          0.157          55.450
1998        12.404            -            12.404
Source: Annex C



5
Economic Benefits (Maradana Junction)
(SL Rs millions)
Year     VOC Savings   Time Savings   Total Benefits
1998         17.30         11.20           28.50
1999        22.69          14.61           37.30
2000         29.76          19.05          48.81
2001         39.04         24.84           63.88
2002         51.20         32.40           83.60
2003         52.96         33.54           86.50
2004         54.78         34.72           89.49
2005         56.66         35.94           92.59
2006         58.60         37.20           95.80
2007         59.49         38.24           97.73
2008         60.40         39.30           99.70
Source: Annex C
13.   A conventional set of economic evaluation indicators has also been calculated for
Maradana Junction. As for Olcott Mawatha above, three sets of calculations have been
performed (see paragraphs 6, 7, above). The details are shown in Tables B-3 and B-4
at the end of this Annex. A summary is presented in the following text table:
Summary of Evaluation Results (Maradana Junction)
(SL Rs millions)
SAR             BR               ICR
Total cost                 247.0           237.4            246.4
Total benefit             1,167.6          823.9           1,222.7
First year of benefits     1997            1998             1998
Project life (years)         15              10               15
NPV (at 10%                198.8           133.8            187.4
discount)
ERR                       23.8 %          24.6 %           22.3 %
C/B ratio                  n/a              0.51            0.45
Source: SAR, Annex C, Tables B-3, B-4.



6
14    The BR shows a lower NPV for this component because it used a ten year project
life in its analysis. The ICR shows a slightly lower NPV and ERR for this component
compared to the SAR because project benefits began one year later than anticipated. A
cost/benefit ratio was not estimated in the SAR. Although total costs were almost exactly
as estimated in the SAR, lower construction costs were lower (Rs 18 million less) and
ongoing maintenance costs were higher than assumed (Rs 14 million more).
Economic Evaluation in the SAR
15    The economic evaluation prepared in the SAR was appropriate to this urban
transport project. It included consideration of changes in traffic congestion on project
benefits. It evaluated traffic flows in a network context. It included consideration of
increased congestion during project construction as a "negative benefit". Benefits due to
changes in vehicle operating costs (VOCs) were estimated for both benefits from reduced
roughness and benefits due to reduction in congestion. The SAR included both NPVs
and ERRs. The evaluation conducted an appropriate level of sensitivity analysis and
calculated switch values.
16    Benefits described in the SAR but not quantified included reduced traffic safety
hazards, improved pedestrian access. A third non-quantified benefit was better traffic
access to the port area, however by dropping the third part of the TSM (Fort Junction)
this benefit was eliminated.
17    The SAR indicates that ex-post evaluation and monitoring of project progress
(SAR, Annex 9) will be done using a number of surveys and on-going statistical
reporting. Most of these surveys have been completed by TPSC or through the Colombo
Urban Transport Study and are used in calculating the economic re-evaluation (i.e.
journey time, traffic volume, passenger income, vehicle operating costs). However
traffic accident data is not available at the time of preparing the ICR for "before" and
"after" comparison.
18    The calculation of the NPV and ERR in the SAR are replicated in Tables B- 1
and B-3. These calculations show two years of zero cost and zero benefit (1993, 1994)
before the project gets underway. As seen above, these zero years have a strong effect on
the NPV calculations. One could presume that the SAR was attempting to include the
effect of two years of waiting time after the project became effective (1993) before
substantial project disbursements began (1995). This should be spelled out more clearly
in the discussion on "economic evaluation methods".



ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Project:      Colombo Urban Transport Project, Olcott Mawatha Improvements
Currency units:     Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs), millions
Effectiveness date:    18-Aug-93
INITIAL EVALUATION (replicate SAR)                                   RE - EVALUATION   following Borrower's Report
COSTS                            BENEFITS           NET              COSTS                            BENEFITS            NET
const  other   mtce   total   reduced  psgr   total   BENEFITS    const  other   mtce   total   reduced  psgr   total   BENEFITS
Year                                      voc   time                                                            voc   time
1993                               0.0                       0.0       0.0
1994       27.1    1.8            28.9                       0.0     -28.9     32.38    0.44          32.82                      0.00     -32.82
1995       54.4    3.7            58.1             -5.5    -5.5      -63.6     42.40    9.56           51.95                     0.00     -51.95
1996       81.5    5.5            87.0       0.0   -7.3    -7.3      -94.3     63.63    8.26           71.89                     0.00     -71.89
1997      108.6    7.4           116.0       0.0   -7.3    -7.3    -123.3      64.83   23.30          88.13                      0.00     -88.13
1998       16.1    1.1            17.2      37.8   39.4    77.2       60.0     21.88    0.00    3.70    25.58    24.42   40.20    64.62    39.04
1999                       0.2     0.2     42.4   46.6    89.0        88.8     21.34   11.10    3.70    36.13    30.89   48.40    79.29   43.16
2000                       0.2     0.2      46.3   55.2   101.5      101.3                     3.70     3.70    39.08   58.28    97.36     93.66
2001                       0.2     0.2      50.5   65.3   115.8      115.6                     3.70     3.70    49.44   70.18   119.62    115.92
2002                       0.2     0.2      55.0   77.3   132.3      132.1                    16.02    16.02    62.54   84.50   147.04    131.02
2003                       0.2     0.2      59.9   91.5   151.4      151.2                     3.70     3.70    65.10   97.00   162.10    158.40
2004                       0.2     0.2      65.2  108.3   173.5      173.3                     3.70     3.70    67.76  111.34   179.10    175.40
2005                       0.2     0.2      70.9  128.1   199.0      198.8                     3.70     3.70    70.53  127.80   198.33    194.63
2006                       0.2     0.2      77.0  151.6   228.6      228.4                     3.70     3.70    73.42  146.70   220.12    216.42
2007                       0.2     0.2      74.5  151.6   226.1      225.9                    16.02    16.02    75.49  151.96   227.45    211.43
2008                       0.2     0.2      72.1  151.6   223.7      223.5                     3.70     3.70    77.62  157.40   235.02    231.32
2009       15.0            0.2    15.2      94.2  151.6   245.8      230.6
2010                       0.2     0.2      91.7  151.6   243.3      243.1
2011                       0.2     0.2      89.3  151.6   240.9      240.7
2012                       0.2     0.2      86.8  151.6   238.4      238.2
Total     302.7   19.5    2.8   325.0  1,013.6 1,652.8  2,666.4   2,341.4    246.46   52.65   65.31   364.43   636.29 1,093.76 1,730.05   1,365.62
Compared to SAR estimate                                                        -56.24   33.15   62.51    39.43  -377.31 -559.04  -936.35    -975.78
-19%   170%  2233%      12%     -37%   -34%    -35%        -42%
Discounted flow at:                         c/b    b/c                                                           c/b    b/c
10.0%                            212.5   0.30    3.38     719.3      506.8                            243.8   0.39    2.55      621.4     377.6
0.49             4~~~~~37.66   -I
ERR                                                                   28.4%                                                    29.48%       28.0%       W
mtce assumDtion ??                                                   mtce assumPtion           Borrower's Report               r
1.0% annual                                                          1.5% annual                                            I
Sources & Notes:                                                                                   5.0% 5 yr periodic
ICR - Implementation Completion Report, World Bank, November 1999
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report, World Bank, 22 April 1993                         366.97 total construction from monthly project costs report (fnancial costs)
Borrower's Report, Ministry of Transport and Highways, August 1999                    economic costs are  67%   of financial costs



ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Project:      Colombo Urban Transport Project, Olcott Mawatha Improvements
Currency units:     Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs), millions
Effectiveness date:     18-Aug-93
INITIAL EVALUATION (replicate SAR)                              ICR RE-EVALUATION with project term matching SAR
COSTS                            BENEFITS            NET              COSTS                             BENEFITS             NET
const  other   mtce   total    reduced  psgr   total   BENEFITS    const  other   mtce   total    reduced   psgr    totai   BENEFITS
Year                                       voc   time                                                            voc    time
1993                                0.0                       0.0       0.0                              0.00                       0.00       0.00
1994       27.1    1.8             28.9                       0.0     -28.9     32.38    0.44           32.82                       0.00     -32.82
1995       54.4    3.7             58.1             -5.5    -5.5      -63.6     42.40    9.56           51.95                       0.00     -51.95
1996       81.5    5.5             87.0      0.0   -7.3    -7.3       -94.3     63.63    8.26           71.89                       0.00     -71.89
1997      108.6    7.4            116.0      0.0   -7.3    -7.3    -123.3       64.83   23.30           88.13                       0.00     -88.13
1998       16.1    1.1             17.2     37.8   39.4    77.2        60.0     21.88    0.00    3.70    25.58    24.42    40.20    64.62     39.04
1999                       0.2      0.2     42.4   46.6    89.0        88.8     21.34   11.10    3.70    36.13    30.89    48.40    79.29     43.16
2000                       0.2      0.2     46.3   55.2   101.5       101.3                      3.70    3.70    39.08    58.28    97.36      93.66
2001                       0.2      0.2     50.5   65.3   115.8       115.6                      3.70    3.70    49.44    70.18   119.62     115.92
2002                       0.2      0.2     55.0   77.3   132.3       132.1                     16.02    16.02    62.54    84.50   147.04    131.02
2003                       0.2      0.2     59.9   91.5   151.4       151.2                      3.70    3.70    65.10    97.00   162.10     158.40
2004                       0.2      0.2     65.2  108.3   173.5       173.3                      3.70    3.70    67.76   111.34   179.10     175.40
2005                       0.2      0.2     70.9  128.1   199. T      198.8                      3.70    3.70    70.53   127.80   198.33     194.63
2006                       0.2      0.2     77.0  151.6   228.6       228.4                      3.70    3.70    73.42   146.70   220.12     216.42               0
2007                       0.2      0.2     74.5  151.6   226.1       225.9                     16.02    16.02    75.49   151.96   227.45    211.43
2008                       0.2      0.2     72.1  151.6   223.7       223.5                      3.70    3.70    77.62   157.40   235.02     231.32
2009       15.0            0.2    15.2      94.2  151.6   245.8       230.6                      3.70    3.70    77.62   157.40   235.02     231.32
2010                       0.2      0.2     91.7  151.6   243.3       243.1                      3.70    3.70    77.62   157.40   235.02    231.32
2011                       0.2      0.2     89.3  151.6   240.9       240.7                      3.70    3.70    77.62   157.40   235.02    231.32
2012                       0.2      0.2     86.8  151.6   238.4       238.2                     16.02    16.02    75.49   151.96   227.45    211.43
Total     302.7   19.5    2.8   325.0  1,013.6 1,652.8  2,666.4   2,341.4    246.46   52.65   92.42   391.54   944.64 1,717.92 2,662.56   2,271.02
Compared to SAR estimate                                                         -56.24   33.15   89.62    66.54   -68.96    65.12    -3.84    -70.38
-19%   170%  3201%      20%       -7%      4%       0%        -3%
Discounted flow at:                          c/b    btc                                                            chb     b/c
10.0%                             212.5   0.30    3.38     719.3      506.8                             226.0   0.31     321       725.9     499.9
0049                     437.6t        -f
ERR                                                                    28.4%                                    1                 29.48%       29.7%
mtce assumption ??                                                    mtce assumption            Borrower's Report:               r
1.0% annual                                                           1.5% annual                                              m
Sources & Notes:                                                                                     5.0% 5 yr perodic
ICR - Implementation Completion Report, World Bank, November 1999                                                                                          W
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report, World Bank, 22 April 1993                           366.97 total construction from monthly project costs report (financial costs)  N)
Borrower's Report, Ministry of Transport and Highways, August 1999                      economic costs are  67%   of financial costs



ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Project:      Colombo Urban Transport Project. Maradana Junction Improvements
Currency units:     Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs), millions
Effectiveness date:     1 8-Aug-93
INITIAL EVALUATION (replicate SAR)                                     RE - EVALUATION   following Borrowers Report
COSTS                            BENEFITS             NET              COSTS                             BENEFITS             NET
const  other   mtce   total    reduced  psgr   total    BENEFITS    const  other   mtce   total    reduced  psgr    total    BENEFITS
Year                                        voc    time                                                            voc    time
1993                                0.0                       0.0        0.0
1994                                0.0                       0.0        0.0
1995       84.0    4.7             88.7              -1.6    -1.6      -90.3     46.73                   46.73                       0.00     -46.73
1996       84.0    4.7             88.7              -1.6    -1.6      -90.3     85.80   15.99           101.79                      0.00    -101.79
1997       41.9    2.4    1.1    45.4        15.6    9.1    24.7       -20.7     55.29    0.16           55.45                       0.00     -55.45
1998        8.3    0.5    1.1       9.9      34.3   20.5    54.8        44.9     12.40            1.00    13.41    17.30   11.20    28.50      15.09
1999                       1.1      1.1      37.8   23.1    60.9        59.8                      1.00     1.00    22.69   14.61    37.30      36.30
2000                        1.1     1.1      37.8   23.1    60.9        59.8                      1.00     1.00    29.76   19.05    48.81      47.81
2001                        1.1     1.1      41.6   26.1    67.7        66.6                      1.00     1.00    39.04   24.84    63.88      62.88
2002                        1.1     1.1      45.8   29.4    75.2        74.1                      6.01     6.01    51.20   32.40    83.60      77.59
2003                        1.1     1.1    50.44   33.14    83.58      82.48                      1.00     1.00    52.96   33.54    86.50      85.50
2004                        1.1     1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00    54.78   34.72    89.50      88.50
2005                        1.1     1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00    56.66   35.94    92.60      91.60
2006                        1.1     1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00    58.60   37.20    95.80      94.80
2007                        1.1     1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      6.01     6.01    59.49   38.24    97.73      91.72
2008                        1.1     1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00    60.40   39.30    99.70      98.70
2009                        1.1     1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78
2010                        1.1     1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78
2011                        1.1     1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78
2012                                0.0                       0.00      0.00
Total     218.2   12.3   16.5   247.0   707.66  459.96 1,167.62    920.62    200.23   16.15   21.02   237.40    502.88  321.04   823.92       586.52
Compared to SAR estimate                                                          -17.97    3.85    4.52    -9.60   -204.78 -138.92  -343.70    -334.10
-8%    31%    27%      -4%      -29%   -30%      -29%       -36%
Discounted flow at:                          c/b    b/c                                                              c/b     b/c
10.0%                             165.4   0.45    2.20      364.3      198.9                             185.4    0.56    1.78      330.7      145.3
0.51                     1338 
ERR                                                                     23.8%                                                      24.58%      20.23%        W
mtce assumPtiOn ??                                                   _mtce_ssmPo                Borrower's Report                 r
0.5% annual                                                            0.5% annual       0
Sources & Notes:                                                                                      2.5% 5 yr periodic
ICR - Implementation Completion Report, World Bank, November 1999
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report, World Bank, 22 April 1993                            Z75.61 total construction from monthly project costs report (financial costs)  |
Borrower's Report, Ministry of Transport and Highways, August 1999                       economic costs are   73%   of financial costs



ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Project:       Colombo Urban Transport Project, Maradana Junction Improvements
Currency units:      Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs), millions
Effectiveness date:     18-Aug-93
INITIAL EVALUATION  (replicate SAR)                              ICR RE-EVALUATION with project term matching SAR
COSTS                             BENEFITS             NET              COSTS                             BENEFITS              NET
const   other   mtce    total    reduced  psgr    total    BENEFITS    const   other   mtce    total    reduced   psgr    total    BENEFITS
Year                                        voc    time                                                              voc    time
1993                                 0.0                       0.0        0.0                               0.00                       0.00       0.00
1994                                 0.0                       0.0        0.0                               0.00                       0.00       0.00
1995       84.0    4.7              88.7             -1.6    -1.6       -90.3     46.73                    46.73                       0.00     -46.73
1996       84.0    4.7              88.7             -1.6    -1.6       -90.3     85.80   15.99           101.79                       0.00    -101.79
1997       41.9    2.4      1.1    45.4      15.6    9.1    24.7        -20.7     55.29    0.16            55.45                       0.00     -55.45
1998        8.3    0.5    1.1        9.9     34.3   20.5    54.8         44.9      12.40           1.00    13.41     17.30   11.20    28.50      15.09
1999                        1.1      1.1     37.8   23.1      60.9       59.8                      1.00     1.00     22.69   14.61    37.30      36.30
2000                        1.1      1.1      37.8   23.1     60.9       59.8                      1.00     1.00     29.76   19.05    48.81      47.81
2001                        1.1      1.1      41.6   26.1     67.7       66.6                      1.00     1.00     39.04   24.84    63.88      62.88
2002                        1.1      1.1     45.8   29.4    75,2         74.1                      6.01     6.01     51.20   32.40    83.60      77.59
2003                        1.1      1.1    50.44   33.14    83.58      82.48                      1.00     1.00     52.96   33.54    86.50      85.50
2004                        1.1      1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00     54.78   34.72    89.50      88.50
2005                        1.1      1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00     56.66   35.94    92.60      91.60
2006                        1.1      1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00     58.60   37.20    95.80      94.80
2007                        1.1      1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      6.01     6.01     59.49   38.24    97.73      91.72
2008                        1.1      1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00     60.40   39.30    99.70      98.70
2009                        1.1      1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00     60.40   39.30    99.70      98.70
2010                        1.1      1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00     60.40   39.30    99.70      98.70
2011                        1.1      1.1    55.54   37.34    92.88      91.78                      1.00     1.00     60.40   39.30    99.70      98.70
2012                                                                                               6.01     6.01     60.40   39.30    99.70      93.69
Total     218.2    12.3    16.5   247.0   707.66  459.96 1,167.62      920.62     200.23   16.15   30.03   246.41    744.48  478.24 1,222.72    976.31
Compared to SAR estimate                                                           -17.97    3.85   13.53    -0.59     36.82   18.28    55.10     55.69
-8%    31%    82%        0%        5%     4%        5%         6%
Discounted flow at:                          cOb      b/c                                                             c/b      b/c
10.0%                              165.4    0.45    2.20     364.3      198.9                              154.7    0.45    2.21      342.1      187.4
V051                     133.8 18
ERR                                                                      23.8%                                                       24.58%      22.29%        W
mice assumption ??                                                      mtce assumption           Borrowers Report                  r
0.5% annual                                                             0.5% annual i
Sources & Notes:                                                                                       2.5% 5 yr periodic                                         w
ICR - Implementation Completion Report, World Bank, November 1999
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report, World Bank, 22 April 1993                             275.61 total construction from monthly project costs report (financial costs)
Borrower's Report, Ministry of Transport and Highways, August 1999                        economic costs are   73%   of financial costs



GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND HIGHWAYS
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CR. 2495-CE)
BORROWERS EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
ANNEX C






--    OwM.a.2g. QuM,jQ p,0383 ,aaw       uoa       q  01, t. .ja . 4;ejr w    M     Q       10.
si  "ff*44. su9ffi4@*^ ^"w           2;r~~~~0. ql L. ef. FJ1gtui,rsi'.  wfsqm, Q&iLb la.
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & HIGHWAYS    No. 01. D. R. Wilewardane Mawatha, Colombo 10.
;6m5w /QpremiA JTelephones:                tosd/Qw*AablFax: 694547
837284
e87311adl          687212                               m     c  
889589  04731  jeawn   687284    -  a          687077  Jw6,uw1 6871Q5 IC'us        8
Sra    678ry       Private Secretary           iffie   J        P. o. Box
eeW qm0              1              q? 
Slgwo i-iv.                        51                          -960  .07.09.1999
My NO.                          Your No.                       Date
Mr. Stein Lundebye
Senior Transport Engrineer/Task Manager (CUTP)
The World Bank Group
1818, H Street
Washington DC
USA
Dear Mr. Landebye,
I am forwarding herewith the draft inmlerrentation
Conpletion Report for the Colonbo Urban Transport Project and
the  future programTe  for tne Transport Studies & Planning
Centre.
Yvours sincerely,
T. Collure
Additional Secretary
Ministry of Transport & Highways.
Copy to   Dr. Sumith Pilapitiya
Senior Environnental Engineer
Thne World Bank
Colonbo.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREADIT 2495 CE)
August 14, 1999
Transport Studies and Planning Center
Ministry oiTranisport and Highvvays






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (CUTP)
CREDIT CR 2495 CE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. PREFACE
B. EVALUATION SUMMARY
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.0    Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
2.0    Achievement of Objectives
3.0    Nlajor Factors Affecting the Project
4.0    Project Sustainabilitv
' .0    Bank Performance
6.0    Borrower Performance
7.0    Assessment of Outcome
8.0    FutLre Plans
9.0    Kev Lessons Learned
D. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
E. APPENDICES
Appenidix 1 - Post-Evaluation of TSM
Appendix 2 - Sur\ ey of Performance bv Private Bus Crews
Appendix    f - Institutionlal Strengthening of Sri Lanka RaiINays
-_j-






IMPLEMEENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (CUTP)
CREDIT CR 2495 CE
A. PREFACE
This is the implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Colombo Urban Transport
Project (CUTP) in Sri Lanka. for which credit 2495 CE in the amount of SDR14.4 million
(US $ 20 million equivaient) was approved June 1, 1993 and made effective on October i.
1993.
The credit was closed on Junie 30. 1999, without any extension beyond the ori-inal closin,
date. The final disbursement    took place on October 30. 1999. at which time there was a
balance of SDR ...... million (US S....... million equivalent): this amount wvill be cancelled.
;i



B. EVALUATION SUMMARY
-_ii-



C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.0    Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
1.1    Background
1.1.1  The Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area (GCMA), which comprises the Colombo
Municipal Council and eight contiguous municipalities, is the commercial heart of the Nation,
the main link to the international transport network, and the central hub of the national
transport network. All major roads and rail systems emanate from Colombo: there is virtually
no interconnection between regional centres other than through Colombo. The GCMA is
served by an extensive road network, by a dense, fixed-route, private and public bus network,
and by rail lines with commuter services paralleling four of the five major radial roads. Over
20,000 private and public buses provide frequent services over 450 routes in the metropolitan
region to carry two-thirds of the total vehicle passengers.
1.1.2  Robust economic growth in the early 1990's, supported in large part by activities in
and around Colombo, and rapid expansion in private vehicle ownership, greatlv increased
demand on transport infrastructure. Policy dialogue during preparation of the Transport
Sector Memorandum (Report No. 8962-CE, June, 1991) led to an agreement with GOSL that
the IDA would focus its next transport operation on relieving the deteriorating traffic situation
in Colombo. At the same time, GOSL requested technical assistance to strengthen the
managerial and regulatory capabilities of the National Transport Commission (NTC) and
Provincial Council staff, to train Central Environment Authority (CEA) staff, and to assist
with reform and restructuring of Sri Lanka Railways (SLR) to improve operational efficiency.
1.1.3  With this in view, the Colombo Urban Transport Project (CUTP) was desiened with
finance from the IDA, UNDP. and GOSL. The separate Agreemenlts were signed by eachi of
the donors. The Credit 2495CE. GOSL with IDA was signed on June i 1. 1993.
1 .1.4  Since implementationi of the Project, the economy of Sri lIanka has experienced a
further shift from the agricultural sector to manufacturing. The manufacturinig sector, w.hichi
accounted for only 19% of GDP in 1993, has increased its share to 23% in 1998'. The
transport sector, which includes storage and communication, has also increased its share of
GDP, growing from 11% in 1993 to 12% in 1998. Per capita income has increased by 11.1%
percent per annum over the same period, from US$ 450 in 1992 to $US 845 in 1998'.
1  Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Annual Report, 1998.



1.2)    Obiectives
1 .2. I  The main objectives of the Project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report- (SAR) are
summarised below.  These are consistent with transport sector policies approved by
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) in 19923, which were to develop an efficient and economic
transport system that can sustain and enhance economic growth and quality of life.
a) To remove transport bottlenecks and reduce traffic congestion in Central Colombo,
which impose high costs on commercial and industrial establishments.
b) To develop long-term transport plans for the GCMA and strengthen institutions
concerned with urban transport.
c) To strengthen the managerial capabilities of the National Transport Commission and
Provincial Councils.
d) To increase the efficiency of Sri Lanka Railways.
e) To promote adequate air quality standards and emission control measures.
1.2.2  The Project included the following components to achieve the objectives:
a) Traffic Management System for Fort, Pettah and Olcott Mawatha - incliding junction
improvements, bus and passenger facilities. pedestrian facilities, street lighting,
rehabilitation of roads and surface drainage, paving, etc.  Capacity Increases at
Maradana Junction - including introduction of a gyratory comprising an additional
bridge over the railway track parallel to the existing bridge and improvements to
immediate approaches.
b) Long-term Urban Transport Planning - including the preparation of a comprehensive
policv and associated  investment plans to address deficiencies in transport
infrastrLucture, service, and management. The resulting policy and plans would be
discussed and an implementation schedule would be agreed with GOSL in 1999.
c) Institutional Strengthening of NTC and Provincial Councils - including the provision
of technical assistance to strengthen the managerial capabilities of the NTC and the
Provincial Authorities.
d) Institutional Strengthening of SLR - including the provision of technical assistance to
establish a commercially oriented railway and to prepare for further restructuring and
privatisation. Initially, it was proposed that the Department would be converted to an
2 Report No. I i 375-CE, The World Bank, 22 April 1993.
Nationai Transport Policy, Ministry of Transport and Highways, January 1992.



Authority.  Due to a change in government policy, however. this approach was
abandoned. At the mid-term review, it was agreed, instead, to initiate improvements
under the departmental structure, includiig by setting up a Strategic Business Unit
and by invitinig the private sector to provide and operate freight trains under an "Open
Access Policy".
e) Air Quality Monitoring and Management - including procurement of air quality
testing equipment and technical assistance for preparation of comprehensive air
pollution control program.
1.3    Evaluation of Obiectives
1.3.1  The main benefits to be achieved from the above-mentioned project components were
as follows:
a) Reduced congestion and accidents in the Colombo Central Business District, savings
in time and vehicle operating costs, and strengthened capabilities of institutions
involved in the urban transport sector, including local private sector road construction
contractors.
b) Long-term transport plans that take account of the new Colombo Metropolitan Plan
prepared by the Urban Development Authority and other projects/plans of line
Ministries and agencies, and a set of detailed short-term projects for immediate
implementation.
c) Satisfactorily trained private sector bus crews and trained regulatory staff at the
National Transport Commission and the Provincial Councils who can provide
effective regulatory services to ensure the provision of efficient bus services.
d) Improved quality of service and financial performance of SLR.
e) Improved air quality and new policies, standards, and enforcement mechaniisins to
reduce air pollution caused by vehicular emissions.
2.0    Achievement of Objectives
2.1    Traffic Management System
2.1.1   The IDA  Credit was signed on 11 June 1993.  The design and supervision
consultants, WS Atkins International, were appointed in December 1993 for the civil work of
the Traffic Management System component of the Credit. Work commenced in January 1994
for construction of Olcott Mawatha I (OMC- 1). Four local contractors were pre-qualified for
the roadwork and six were pre-qualified for the bridge and other work.



2.] .2  Three projects-Maradana Junction improvement. construction of Fort Station
Footbridge. and supply of traffic signals-were designated for Internationial Competitive
Bidding (ICB), but only two internationial contractors were pre-qualified. There was a long
delay in procurement as a result of a chanige in Cabinet of Ministers in 1994. In anlv case, all
procuremenit in Sri Lanka experiences long delays.
2.1.3   The Traffic Managemenit System, which was the major component of the Project
(62%), was successfully completed before the target date. as all planned civil works were
completed at the beginning of 1998. 90% of the planned work was completed successfully,
but at only 73% of the estinated project cost.
2 1.4  The Fort intersection imiiproveement project was suspended in 1996 after a bomb
explosion at the Central Bank Building, which led to new traffic scheme at Fort. The
estimated cost of this component was Rs.33.17 million. or 4% of thie total TSM allocation.
21.5   The World Bank was not agreeable to procurement of traffic signals equipment under
LCB Procedure for the OMC - I I Contract and funding from the Credit was not approved for
same. The amount ailocated for this component was Rs. 27.75 million or 4% of the TSM
allocation .
2 1.6  This component met its objectives of reducing congestion and saving vehicle
operating costs and passenger travel time, as highlighited in Appendix 1.
2.1 .7  This componenit was also successful in encouraging the development of two private
contractors-International Constructioni Consortium  (ICC) and Link Engineering Pvt Ltd
(Link Engineering)-who  niow  own a lot of road construction equipment and road
constructioni plant. The RDA and RCDC are now giving these contractors work on ad-hoc
basis given the experience they gained during the Project. Iise of local prikale-sector road
contractors also saved the Project a significant amount of the allocated expenditure, as bids
were relativelv lower than the Engcieer's estimates.
2.1.8  The key perforimianice indicators were identified during the preparation of the Project
and were agreed betweenl the parties involved in executing and implementinig the projects and
the IDA. These indicators and their values are given in the Annex 1.
2.2    Lon2-term Urban Transport Planning
2.2.1   Background: At the time of credit negotiation, it was identified that infrastructure
investmenits and institutional capabilities were not matching the increase in transport demand.
Therefore, $US 1.6 million was allocated to carry out the Colombo Urban Transport Study,
which was to address deficiencies in transport infrastructure, service, and management and to
prepare comprehensive policies and associated investment plans.



2.2.2   The studv was divided into two phases. The first phase was to car-v out surveys to
identify tranlspor-t demand by travel corridor and evaluate bus and rail modal choice, to
analyse economilic and financial viability of various investment options, and to identify long-
tern institutional reforms and policy action plans needed. Tlle second phlase was to do
feasibility anialyses of the hiighiest priority investment programs. At the time tihe credit was
negotiated, it was proposed that the study would use 60 expatriate staff-monthis and 200 local
staff-monithis of Consultanicy services, would provide on-tile-job traililig for staff of line
agencies, and would procure personal computers. software, and printers and other office
equipment.
2.2.3  Implemiientationl: The Transport Studies and Planning Centre (TSPC). on belialf of the
GOSL, publishied a pre-qualification notice for thie above Consultancv in December 1993.
Forty-four companies expressed interest. Six companies were short-listed by the GOSL with
concurrenice of the World Bank. The original TOR were revised by the GOSL and World
Bank to avoid repeating work done in the Transport Planining and Strategy Project of
1996/1997. Proposals for Stage I of the Colombo Urban Transport Study (CUTS-I) were
called from the six pre-qualified firms on 24 Februarv 1994. Thle tender closed on 12 May
1994. Subsequently, an election was held, in which the government changed, resulting in a
15-month delay in awarding thie tender. Halcrow Fox Associates of UK, in association with
Engtineering ConAsultanits Ltd of Sri Lanka, commenced CUTS-I in August 1995 and
completed in March 1996. CUTS-I used 38.5 foreign expatriate staff-monthis and 43.5 local
staff-monitlhs.
2.2.4  CUTS- I recommenlded a 20-year program, a 1 0-year program. a 5-year program, and
an imimlediate program  for major infrastructure projects and institutional reform  and a
corresponding investment plan. The GOSL found that CUTS-I did not fully meet TOR
requirements in some areas and requested completion. Thle completed report was received in
late.lanuarv 1997.
2.2.5   Thle TOR tor thle Phase 2 of the Colombo USrban Transport Study (CUTS-2) was
revised to incorpor-ate new proposals made in the UDA Colombo Metropolitan Regional
Developmenlt Plan and in other plaiis made by the line agencies in the transport sector. Bids
were called fiom all six pre-qualified firms in July 1997 and were closed in November 1997.
The eighit-mionth delav between CUTS-I and CUTS-2 was due in palt to changes in the
Cabinet of Ministers in 1997. CUTS-2 was awarded to WS Atkins Interinationial Ltd of the
UK, in association with the University of Moratuwa in Sri Lanka. Thie studv commenced in
November 1998 and completed on 30 June 1999. CUTS-2 used 47.6 foreign expatriate staff-
montihs and 14 local staff-months.
2.2.6   CUTS-1 and CUTS-2 used the total allocated budget of $US 1.6 million with the
balance of $US 500 remaining.  The following outputs were produced by CUTS-2 for
discussion with GOSL and the World Bank about implementation:



Policy and Regulatory Actions:
- Bus Restructuring;
- Railway Services;
-  Integration of Road and Rail;
- Transport Master Plan;
- Traffic Management Policy:
- City Centre Study;
- Parking Policy and Enforcement System.
Institutional Strengthening:
- Traffic Management Responsibilities;
- Institutional Framework for Bus Sector;
- Technical Assistant Requirements.
Feasibility and Pre-Feasibility Studies:
- Duplication Road Extension;
- Mass Rapid Transit (Conceptual Study);
- Inland Container Depot;
- Kelani Rail Bridge;
- Transport Centre at City Centre;
Traffic Management and Safety:
- Pilot scheme proposals (Galle Road Dehiwela Bridge to Kudana
Junction);
-  Detailed designs of the above section with tender documents;
-  Corridor programs
2.3   Institutionial Strengthening -NTC and Provincial Councils
2.3.1  Background: This component of the Project was intended to strengthen the
managerial capabilities of the NTC and Provincial Councils4. When the Credit Agreement
wvas signied, the following three Consultancy services were planned:
*  Installing a computerised management information system  and training NTC
management and technical staff in its use.
*  Undertaking a bus route costing study and training NTC staff to periodically update
the cost information; and
*  Training Provincial Council staff to issue route pennits, to register vehicles by type,
and to manage bus terminals.
4  Staff Appraisal Report refers as new institution in page II of the Staff Appraisal Report.



2.3.2  Implemenitation: The NTC and Provincial Councils were provided with computers
and software under the Credit in 1997 and 1998. Softwvare was developed by the Institute of
Computer Techinology of the University of Colombo usinlg CLIPPER. A computer literacy
course and training was also provided by thle ICT of the University of Colombo to use the
computers.
2.3.3  Evaluation: During post-evaluation  of the project it was observed that the
computerised MIS was not properly designed. Systems analysis and design documents were
not available. A software user manual was not provided. The objective of preparing a bus-
related database at the provincial level and national level was an ideal and effective objective
of the project. As NTC did not have a effective monitoring mechianlism in place, progress on
thiis componient was very slow and less thani 20% of expected data hiave been collected.
2'3.4  The NTC did not undertake the bus route costing study nor train its staff to
periodically update the cost information.
2.3.5  Training of Provincial Council staff was not carried out, although a training project
was designed.
2.3.6   At a request from the NTC at the midterm review in March 1997, tlhe institutional
strengtilening component was changed to include private sector bus crew training. Other
chianiges requested by NTC were not approved, as they had no link with the objectives.
2.4   Institutionial Strengthening NTC - Private Sector Bus Crew Training Program
2.4.1  Implementation: Some 20,104 bus crews (10.047 drivers and 10.057 conductors)
were trained under the Project. The course included duties of drivers and conductors, public
relationls. attributes of a good driver/conductor, cost savings throutgh good driving, essentials
of good transport system, and accident prevention.
2.4.2  Evaluation: The programii commeniced in August 1997 and was completed in Julle
1999 at a total cost of Rs 25 million. The NTC has agreed to introduce necessarv legislation
to require a certificate of formal traininig for all crews in the private sector from June 1999. A
request for fLnids to train a further 2.500 crews was not approved by the World Bank. as since
significant beneficial outcomes were not readily evident as a result of the traininig provided.
the World Bank commissioned an independenit evaluation to be carried out prior to
continuationi of the balance training. However, the evaluation studv too concluded the lack of
significant contribution of the training towards the safety of the public or the development of
the industry. Details are given in Appendix 2.



Traffic Rules Observed by Drivers Followed the Training Course
Versus Drivers not Following the Course
'r
80
60                             EJ~~~~~~~~~~~ Drivers WVho have followed the NTC training
30 -         4                            = 9  1  z Drivers who have not followed the NTC training
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Source: Bus Crew Training Program Evaluation Survey, Dept of Police/TSPC
Key:
I=Complies with speed limits                  7=Signals before turning
2=Overtakes with care                         8=Keeps to left hand edge
3=Horning only wvhen necessary                9-Stops bus within halting place
4=Adherence to Right of Way                    I O=stops bus close to the edge
5=Yields to pedestrians at crossing            I l=Pulls away after proper boarding
6=Signals before stopping/moving               1 2=Does not allow foot-board travel
1 3=Does not linger at bus halts
2.4.3  It was fouLid thie conductors' traiiing course also did not have any impact according
to comments made by the parties involved in the contract5
Behaviour Observed by Conductors Followed Trainingj
Course VS Conductors w ho have not followed the Course      II
1(0
80
60
40 _*2Conductors 3           4ho have nfollow ed the NTC training
1     2      3      4      5



Key:
I. Communicates well with Driver
2. Courteous to Passenger
3. Collects tickets from all passengers
4. Issues tickets at time of boarding
5. Does not allow standing passengers (A/C buses only)
Source: Performance Evaluation Survey of NTC Driver/Conductor Training, May 1999.
2.5   Institutional Strengthening NTC - Overseas Training
2.5.1  Implementation: It was proposed to train middle management staff of the NTC and
Provincial Councils in the UK on Regulation and Vehicle Management. It was proposed to
send three middle management staff from the NTC, the Principal of the Driver Training
School, and six officers from six Provincial Councils.  The first batch was trained in
November 1998. The World Bank did not approve nominations for the second batch, as
candidates did not comply with conditions in the proposal. Fresh nominations were submitted
by NTC in late May 1999, but were not accepted, due to the slhort period before closure of the
project. The NTC did not change the nominations to comply with the original proposal.
2.5.2  Evaluation: Staff submitted a report to the TSPC and World Bank after training,
wlhichi was satisfactory. HIowever, it was not possible to retain the trained staff in related
work and thereby make productive use of their training. In one case, a trained person was
removed from hiis position and only NTC intervention lead to his being retained in the same
capacity for a limited period.
2.6   Institutional Strengthening - Sri Lanka Railwavs
2.6.1   Background: The Sri Lanka Railways Authority Act was passed by Parliament in
December 1993. The following components were to be implemented under the CUTP.
*  To advise the SLRA Board and Managing Director otn commercialisation of railway
operations.
To train financial, operating, and marketing staff to improve their skills.
*- To assist with implementation of a computerised management information and
service costing system and to train staff.
*  To develop a contract framework and reimbursement formula for PSO contracts.



2.6.2  Implementation: Techinical assistance, by way of services of ex-pat consultanits, was
provided in 1994 to assist with establishmenit of the SLRA. Due to delays in implementationl
of the SLRA Act, the consultanits could not uLidertake those duties relatin_ to selection and
training of senior SLRA staff. They did, hlowever. recommenid some short- and long-term
actions to improve service and financial performance. but most \were not implemented by
SLR. This was partlv due to deficiencies in performance by some of tbe consultalits.
2.6.3   A railway workshop wvas held in 1995, withi techinical assistance. wlheni it appeared
that the Railwavs Authiority would finally be implemented. The purpose of the workshop was
to introdtice SLRA Board members and railway officers to "World's Best Practice" in
operations and maintenanlce. A list of agreed actions vwas also produced. in ConIjullCtiOnl witil
railway officers, during the workshiop. Only some were implemenited, however, mainily due
to lack of comilmitmenit. Implementationi stopped with the appoitmenit of a new Minister and
a new General Manager, whio hiad not been party to tihe earlier agreements.
2.6.4   Resulting from thie Transport Sector Strategy seminar in end-1996, the World Bank
midterm review mission in March 1997 proposed a change in focus for railway restructuring.
It was agreed that GOSL would establish a Strategic Business Unit (SBU) in SLR to develop
the freight business and to come up with an "Open Access" policy whereby public and private
organisations would be allowed to provide and operate freiglht trains on SLR tracks.
2.6.5   GOSL approved the open access concept and establishmeilt of the SBU in October
1997. Member-s from SLR and from other groverilment departments xvere appointed shiortly
thiereafter, but private sector representatives withl expertise in finanice, marketing, real estate,
etc. were not hiired as agreed and members were not assigned fuill timle.
2.6.6   Due to delays in its appointment and to tihe part-time effort. the SBU did not complete
all the proposed activities. but it did prepare a draft open access policy thlat was circulated to
interested parties in March/April 1999 to get their observations. It is contemplated that a final
open access policy \vill be prepared, incorporating such observations. and thereafter submitted
to the GOSL f; r approval.
2.6.7  SLR and the SBU also negotiated an access contr-act with a private freight operator
during 1998. T1erms and conditionls of the agreement were approved by the GOSL in April
1999 and an agreement was implemented with effect from May 1999. The freight operator
began operating his trains, includinig with his own crews. in August 1999.
2.6.8   Other positive steps occurred in railway restructuring between 1997 and 1999. In
November 1997. the National Development Council (NDC) prepared a report that advocated,
among other things, a restructuring of SLR into a more autonomous and commercially
oriented organisationi. although an organisation that retains its social obligations. The NDC
Report affirned a nlumber of recommendations that had been made under the CUTP and in
earlier studies. iicludinig management restructuring, commercial orientationl, increased



accountability for performance, development of a strategic planning capability, revenue
enh1anlcemenit and improved cost recovery, development of freighit includingt open access, and
so 011.
2.6.9  Following on thie NDC Report. the MOTH recommended reorgan1isinig SLR into five
fuLictionial groups, establislhing explicit performance targets, and appointinig a managemenit
counicil to monitor performance. A Cabinet Paper is now being submitted to get approval for
thle proposed chaanges.
2.6. 10  Progress hias also been made in other areas identified for restructuring in the original
CUTP component. A Data Processing (DP) Unit was formed in 1998. A PC-based computer
network was installed and payroll software was purchased, wlhichi is being implemented
gradually, but is already used to pay more thlan 5,000 railway employees. Other PCs have
been obtained to monitor train delays, to prepare montlhly accounts, and to analyse signal and
rollinig stock failures. A five-year computerisation plan hias been developed, for wihicih fuilds
hiave been allocated by Treasury. Outline specifications have been prepared for an integrated
MIS includinig Operations Information, Rolling Stock Asset Management, Infrastructure
Asset Management, and Materials Management and Procurement. Tenders are being called
for a Human Resources package to integrate with Payroll, for Materials Management and
Procurement, and for Operations Information.
2.6.1 i Actions hiave also been taken, in conjunctioni with the Urban Development Autlhority,
to begin commercial development of railway real estate. Seven locations hlave been identified
for developmenit. including constructioni of moderin railway/comimlercial facilities witl
integrated modal interchange.
2.6.12 Between February and June 1999, CUTP funds were used to engage local experts in
accouL1tilng, property managemenit. and stores managemelnt. Due to delays in selection and
appointmenit, their progress was limited: hiowever. some positive results were aclieved. Tlle
Accounting Consultanlt organised restructuriiig of accountinig functions, assisted witlh
decentralisation. improved caslh collection and paymenit, organlised a campainll to get
employees to open bank accoulIts for direct salary deposit. and so on.  TIlie Property
Management Consultanit specified and assisted withi the developmenit of a computer program
to maniage leases. whiichi wili be used to ensure that rent is collected. The Stores Consultanit
introduced clhanges in stores and procurement procedures to reduce lead-time and assisted
with specification of a computerised materials management application.  SLR has also
requested permission from thle GOSL to engage a local consultant on a 2-3 year contract.
using railway funds, to continlue restructuring of stores.
2.6.13  Evaluation: Little progress was made in this component betweeni 1994 and 1996.
primarily due to a decision by GOSL not to establish an autonomous Railways Authority.
Witlhout managemenit restructuring, many of the agreed activities could not be undertaken as
proposed. Uncertainity of commitment by SLR and thie GOSL to the proposed clhanges
hiindered efforts to improve quality of service and financial pertormance.



.6.14  After 1997. and especially in 1998 and  1999. progress became much  more
satisfactory. This x'as largely due to a greater recognition by GOSL and SLR that chanige is
necessary to improve rail service and financial performance and to a greater commitment to
chanige. The increasinig fiianlcial burden of railway losses is also driving the Ministry of
Finance and National Planning and the Treasury to demand chanige and inprovemenit.
Constructive actions are now being considered and are being taken to restructure and improve
SLR while retaining the departmental structure. The strongest evidence of commitment to
chanlge is the signing of an access agreement with a private freight shipper, despite
tremendous uniion opposition. Other evidence, at least of interest, in making improvements
are proposals to undertake a functional reorganisation of SLR, to appoint a managemenit
council to set and monitor performance targets, to appoint a strategic piannilig Ullit. to set up a
Railway Property Development Company, etc. The local consultants who were employed for
five monthis also introduced chanlges. There is a risk that such changes will lapse after their
departure. but at least in the area of stores management, SLR is trying to continue reform by
engaging an expert for an additional 2-3 years using railway funds. The detailed report for
this component is given in Appendix 3.
2.7    Institutional Stren-thening - Air Oualitv Monitoring and Management Studv.
2.7.1   Backgroutid: Monitoring of air quality in Colombo commenced with the installation
and commissioning of the two fixed Air Quality Monitoring Stations and one mobile Air
Quality Monitorinig Station.
2.7.2  This component includes procurement of air quality  testing  equipmenit and
Consultancy services to prepare an air quality control program as follows:
*  Develop an emission inventory showing sources, extent, and geographic variation of
pollutingc emtlissioni in the Colombo area.
*  Monitori major air pollutioni. such as nitrogeni dioxide. sulphiur dioxide. carbon
monioxide and particuliate matter.
*  Carry out feasibility studies to evaluate policy options to reduce air pollutioll arising
fiom vehicle exhaust emission. including fuel quaiity enihanicinig measures. chaliges in
transport policy and maniagement.
*  Train Central Environmental Authority (CEA) staff and strengthlen their capabilities
to monitor and enforce air quality standards.
2.7.3  Implementation: Two fixed and one mobile air quality monitoring stations were
procured under the project in 1997. Data has been coliected continuously by the two fixed
stations for the last two years. The CEA is publishing Air Quality data in weekly papers.
Traininig has been given on modelling and analysing data by a foreign consultanit who came



on sabbatical leave to the University of Peradeniva. The cost for thiis training was minimal.
Foreign traininig on operating the equipment was given to a six-member team comprising
National Buildinlg Researcih Organisation (NBRO) and CEA staff A program was developed
to collect baseline air quality data for the regional town1s of Hambantota. Nuuwara Eliya,
Kandv, Anuradhlapura. and Puttalam using the mobile air quality monitoring station. Data has
already been collected from Hambantota and Nuwara Eliya. Interest showin bv people in Sri
Lanka for air quality data indicates the satisfactory results of this project component.
2.7.4  Evaluationi: The two fixed air quality monitoring stations were installed and started
collecting data in November 1996. On-the-job training was provided to NBRO and CEA
staff. Equipment was supplied by ECOTECH Private Ltd of Australia.  One unit was
installed in Pettaii (on Olcott Mawatha) where transport-related air pollution6 is highl and the
othier unit was installed at the Department of Meteorology in Bullers Road, Colombo 7, where
transport-related air pollution is low. Progress is being made in developing an emissions
invenltory shiowing the present pollution levels in the Central Business District of Colombo
and in a cleaner area of Colombo.
2.7.5   This component of the Project has provided data to monitor air pollution levels in
Colombo and in the peripheral areas by deploying the mobile air quality monitorinig station.
It was found, however, that the CEA has not developed a monitoring program nor made
policy recommendationis to the GOSL.  It was also found that the mobile air quality
monitoring station hias been used to provide data required by line agencies or project
proponents for their EIA studies on pay basis.
2.7.6  Evaluationi of this component highlights the need to Lilly develop implementationi
plans to ensure smooth project implementation. Otherwise, projects will not able to meet the
these planned objectives.
3.0    Major Factors Affecting the Project
3.1    Factors not Laeeneraliv Subiect to Government Control
T lihere were terior-ist Bomb explosions at tihe Central Banki in Nowember 1996 and the
World l'rade Centre and Hotel Galadari in January 1996. These were witililn areas
included under the TSM component of the project. As result of the explosions, traffic
arrangemilenits were clhanged in Fort and on Olcott Mawatha. However. there was no
damage to tile civil works completed bv the project.
*  A bomb exploded at Maradana Junction in July 1998, whiich caused slighit damage to
street lights and road furniture provided under the Project. However, the Colombo
Municipal CouLIcil. whiclh was the executing agency of the TSM. replaced these items
without any cost to the project.



*  There were two national elections in 1994-pariiamnentary and presidential-which
resulted in a change of government and changes in the Ministrv of Transport &
Highways.
*  Holidays related to nationial cultural and religious festivals in April, May, and
December of each year slowed implementation of the TSM construction work.
*  The TSM  project was in high security zone targeted by the LTTE terrorist
organisationi.
3.2    Factors Generallv Subiect to Government Control
*  Cumbersome procedures and changes in the composition of Tender Boards delayed
procurement for the TSM and Colombo Urban Transport Study.
*  Delays in relocating the pavement hawkers.
* Delays in replacing utilities along Olcott Mawatha.
*  Changes in the Cabinet of Ministers and appointment of a new Minister of Transport
and Highways in 1997.
-  Sri Lanka Railways had four General Managers during the project, each of whom had
to be lreshly briefed about the objectives of institutional strengtiheniinc.
* Failure to implement the Sri Lanka Railways Authority Act as agreed.
3.3    Factors Generaily Subiect to Implementini Agencv
*  No procedures to review program changes proposed by the executiig agencies to
ensure that they are withilin the original objectives.
*  Delays caused by procurement procedures.
3.4    Cost Chaniges
*  The project achieved its physical objectives. There were savings in expenditures
under the TSM component, which was adjusted with the SRR. Only 74% of the
Credit wvas used in total, as the Institutional Strengthening components for SLR and
the NTC/Provincial Councils were not completed as proposed.
*  The total saving of 26% includes 6% due to suspended project components and
savings from some TSM contracts.



3 .5   Implementation Delavs
*  The credit agreement was signed on June 11, 1993 and was declared effective on 01
October 1993. after a period of three months. The design and supervision consultalit
wvas appointed in December 1993.
*  Most delays were in 1994 and 1995. due to chaniges in Cabinet Appointed Tender
Boards.
*  The Institutionial Strengtilening components for SLR and NTC were not implemented
due to chianges in government policy and erosion of commitment for tihe proposed
reforms.
*  The revised program for SLR was implemented at very late stage of the project.
*  The NTC/Provincial Council component made slow progress and tihere were drastic
chianges to the program, which diverted from the original objectives.
l In general, thiere were no big delays in the TSM component.
3.6    Changes in Proiect Scope
*  The Traffic Management System was not chaniged from the origina; program. other
than deletion of Fort Intersection developmenit.
i  The Colombo Urban Transport Study was not changed from the original program.
e  At the Marcil 1997 midterm review, the World Bank changed tile scope of the
Institutional Strengthieniing components for SLR. for NTC/Provincial Coulicils. and
for Air Quality Managemenit.
*  The Tranisport Planninig and Strategy Project funded ulider a grant of US S 526.000/=
gave input for the chanige in the SLR program to accounlt for revised GOSL policy.
*  Clianges made to the SLR and Air Quality Management componenits were withiin the
original scope of the project.
* The revision made to the NTC component was a deviation from the original scope of
the project and was not appraised eithier by the World Bank or by the implementinig
agency.



4.0    Project Sustainabilitv
4.1    Project benefits from  the relhabilitation of Olcott Mawatha, Bastian Mawatila,
Tecniical College Junctionl, and Sri Sangaraja Mawatila, and from the improvement of
Maradana Junction. are substanitially reduced VOC and passenger times as shown in
Appendix I. Maintenanice of the reliabilitated road sections and of Maradana Junction has
been taken over by the CMC, whicil assures that benefits of this componenit will be sustained.
4.2   It is not assured that benefits from the institutional strengtheninlg of NTC will be
sustained. Physical componenits such as computers were provided, but are not being used due
to inappropriate training that failed to demonstrate tihe advantages of the installed programs.
User maniuals also were not provided. Recent draft bus policy also suggests a reduced
reguiatory role for the NTC and Provincial Councils.
4.3    It appears that restructuring of SLR. although likely to proceed slowly, will be
sustainable due to greater commitment by GOSL and SLR to improve service and reduce
losses. Presently, many of the proposed changes are being driven from within MOTH and
SLR, whicih is positive. The sustainability of individual activities, such as those introduced
by the local consultants, however, is questionable in the short-term, as middle-level managers
are still not adequately held responsible or accountable for performance.
4.4    The GOSL has allocated funds for routine and periodic maintenance of air quality
monlitorinig stations and has also allocated funds for recurrent expenditure by the Central
Einvironimiienit Authiority. Sustainiability of the Air Quality Management Program. therefore.
appears clearer tlian sustainabi litv of other institutional strengthiening components.
4.5    CUTS-Il recommended policies and procedures. included draft formats for TPCs, for
traffic maniagemilenit institutions. and for road and traffic mantagement infrastructure
developmenits. If implemenited. tihese recommenidations will increase the probability that
other componenlts of thle CUTP wvi l be sustainable.
5.0    Bank Performance
5.1   Identification: The CUITP project was identified in 1987 vhen the GCOSL and the
World Bank completed the Transport Sector Study, whiicih identified the Greater Colombo
Area as one of important componient. The GOSL requested fundinig for the TSM component
of the CJTP in 1988.
5.2    Preparation: Preliminary engineering and feasibility studies were undertaken by WS
Atkins Interinational in 1989, ulider the project preparation facility provided by the World
Bank.  Scott Lukehart and Company, USA. developed the institutional strengthening
componenits and the terms of reference for the Colombo Urban Transport Study. The World
Bank negotiated with UNDP and Canada to fund some components of the project. A UNDP
grant was requested and granted for the Transport Sector Strategy based on agreements



reachied with the GOSL in 1992 and 1993 to establish a Railwavs Authority, to privatise the
bus industry and to deregulate fares.
.3    Appraisal
5.3.1  Supervisioni: The quality of the World Bank's supervision varied widely. In the early
stages of the project, quality of supervision was poor. World Bank missions between 1993
and 1996 did not spend enough time with the project implementinig agencies, especially for
the institutionlal strentgthieniing components. Aide Memoirs claimed that agencies agreed to
actions, whicih had not been fully explained or understood and whichi therefore were later not
implemented. Communicationi was not satisfactory.
5.3.2   Commllunlicatioll with agencies improved at later stages, but could have still been
better. Some taski managers seemed to be unfamiliar withi IDA procurement procedures and
guidelinies. Quality of supervision at later stages, however. was more professional. Missions
spent more time trying to understand the borrowers' institutional capabilities and to orient
objectives with such capabilities. The IDA/Borrower relationship was more beneficial and
productive.  Both parties responded positively to the practical needs that arose during
implementationl. Implementation problems were correctly identified by supervisory missions
and remedial actions approved. Credit covenants were complied with. Sufficient and timely
advice was given to the implementing agencies and follow-up actions were adequate. Timing
of supervisory missionis was appropriate and time spent with the institutioll was adequate.
.3.3  The Banik's soverall supervisory performance was satisfactory. both in qualitv and
quantity. at later part of the project because it took timely action in carrying out the midterm
review and amended the some activities within the scope of the project, and assessed the
project's imipact and effectiveness impartially. IDA carried out the Transport Sector Planniilg
Strategy study at appropriate time. which did not focus only on the main componenit of the
CUTP. This waas used to review tihe SLR component of the project.
6.0    Borrower 1'crformancc
6.1.1     ilreparationi: The project was identified and prepared jointly by thle GOSL, IDA
and thle UNDP with the support ol teams of local and inter-lnationial consultaits.  The
borrower's performianice in working with the IDA to provide techniical and economic data and
to arrange implemenitationi was somewhat satisfactory. All the sub-components were selected
and designed to ensure that they fitted well within project objectives and were economical to
construct, reliabilitate, and maintain. Candidates for the TSM were selected based on EIRR
and othier componenits were selected using decision table analysis. The key criteria were (a)
that all TSM investmenit shiould have an EIRR of more thani 17%. and (b) that all institutional
componenits should receive more than 66% of the decision table marks.
6.1.2  in retrospect wide spread agreement is observed among the Sri Lanka Transport
Policy makers. that the above reforms were overambitious and inappropriate being grounded



in rieo-classical economic ideology and a lack of appreciation of the socio economic realities
of the implementation environment of Sri Lanka.
6.2   Impiemenltationi: The Transport Studies and Planning Centre (TSPC) implemented all
componenits of the CUTP Centre (TSPC) and execution was as follows:
*  TSM component by the CMC.
*  Bastian Mawatha Bus Stand development by the NTC.
*  CUTS-I and CUTS-Il by the TSPC.
*  Supply of computer and software for NTC and Provincial Councils by the NTC.
*  Restructuring of SLR by the SLR.
*  Air Quality Management by the Metropolitan Environment Improvement Project.
*  Private sector bus crew training program by the NTC.
*  All other activities by the TSPC.
*  Performance of contractors under of the TSM  was supervised by WS Atkins
International and monitored by the TSPC and CMC.
*  The MOTH and TSPC monitored the other project components, with the assistance of
the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Transport Sector Planning and Co-ordination
(IMC-CPT).
6.3    GOSL counterpart funds were available as required, and TSPC and the executing
agencies showed adequate commitment to comply with the major credit covenants. The
implementing agency complied with IDA guidelines on procurement and disbursements,
thoughI there were some delays in awarding contracts. Audit reports were submitted on time.
However, the procurement of Traffic Signals scheduled under OMC 1 1 of the Credit, was not
carried out due to intervening reasons beyond the control of TSPC and the executing agency.
6.4    The main weakness that may be attributed to the TSPC is a failure to adequately co-
ordinate communications between the World Bank and the executing agencies.  While
agencies were given agendas of World Bank missions, they often did not understand the
objectives of suchI meetings or understand their implications. Wheni World Bank missions
recorded agreements on issues, the agreements were often one-sided and based on incomplete
understanding. Even when real agreements were achieved. the executing agenicies were not
reminded and therefore sometimes forgot. Thie TSPC should have played a stronger role in
facilitating clear communication in both directions, by more fully briefing the agencies and by
informing the World Bank if perceived agreement was real.
6.5    During the final 1 '/2 years of the Project, TSPC underwent serious staff depletion.
MOTH therefore assumed more direct control of Project Management activities with the
Additional Secretary of the Ministry functioning as the Project Co-ordinator.  Project
Performance showed a marked improvement during the balance period though closer
supervision and Co-ordination with the Consultants and the executing agencies.



7.0    Assessment of Outcome
7. i    The project has achieved most of its major objectives. It has met its entire physicai
target wvithliin the original cost estimates. The CMC has deveioped a mainitenianice program
with an adequate budget that will assure project sustainabilitv. The institItionial restructuring
component was successful in the air quality management program and in introductioni of open
access for rail freight. A "white paper" is being prepared, based on the NDC policy papers on
Traffic Management. Priciig. Railway Restructuring, and Bus Policy. whilichi should result in
fLurthier improvement of public transport.
7.2    Experience gained under the TSM component of the CUTP has helped develop road
contractors to ulidertake mnediumn size road rehabilitation and constructioni work. The two
contractors now hiave asphalt plants and other road related equipment. It is should be noted
that the Road Development Authority is also now giving some road rehabilitation work,
whicih are funded by the donor agencies, to these contractors. The Traffic and Planninig Unit
of thle CMC has commenced a regular traffic data collection and monitorinig program using
equipment provided under the CUTP. Civil works completed under the project are:
-  Rehabilitation of Olcott Mawatha from Lotus Road to Technical College Junction
  Rehabilitation of Bastian Mawatha
-  Rehabilitation of Sri Sangaraja Mawatha
*  Constructioni of Bastian Mawathia Bus Stand
-  Maradana Junctioni Improvement and
*  Strengtheningt of techilical capabilities of traffic Ulit of the CMC and Traffic Police
7.3    A long-term transport sector policy was prepared under the Transport Planninig and
Strategy Project, funded by the UNDP, which was finalised in January 1997. CUTS-I, which
was carried out simultanieously. prepared short-, medium-, and long-term investmenit plans for
the Colombo Urban Transport System.6  CUTS-Il prepared pre-feasibility and feasibility
studies, conceptual plans, and detail designs for pilot inplemenltation projects recommended
by CUTS-I. In doing so. CUTS-Il used NDC draft policy papers, the UNDP Transport Sector
Strategy, and the subsequenit CMR land use development plan prepared by the Urban
Development AutIlority as in puts.
7.4    The National Transport Commission trained 20,000 private sector bus crews. Three
representatives from the NTC. two from the Provincial Councils, and one from the SLCTB
driver training school received international training in bus regulation.  Computers and
software were provided to the NTC and to all Provinces to develop an automated regulatory
system for buses.
7.5    Sri Lanka Railways has commenced basic reforms under the direction of CUTP
inputs. Furthier assistance vwill likely be required to complete the reforms. whicih should be
I-lalcrow Fox Associates. UK



considered for futire funding once specific plans and targets have been developed and the
reform process has started.
7.6    Two fixed and one mobile air quality monitoring station are now being operated and
the data collected from these station are now being used by arenicies such as CEA and some
project proponent agencies.  The Ministry of Environment and Forestry has identified
expansioni of the air quality management program as a priority.
Economic Evaluation:
7.7    The economic costs of this Olcott Mawatha rehabilitationi component are composed
of construction. equipmnent. and maintenance cost. The actual economic construction and
equipment costs are summarised below. The additional maintenance costs of the rehabilitated
section of Olcott Mawatila were obtained from the Colombo Municipal Council (periodic and
rotitniie) over the life of the project. This is more practical than what was used in the project
feasibility study.
Economic Investment Costs (Olcott Mawatha)
Year        Construction      Road Furniture       Total Cost
& Equipment           (Rs)
1994          32.382             0.441              32.823
1995          42.399             9.555              51.954
1996          63.630              8.260             71.890
1997          64.827             23.303             88.130
1998          21.882             0.000              21.882
1999    1     21.343             11.095             32.438
Source: WS Atkins International, UK, ICR, June 1999.
7.8    The economic benefits of the rehabilitated section of the Olcott Mawatha include
savings in vehicle operating costs and passenger time costs. as summiiarised in the following
table. lllease note that carbon reduction and air pollution reduction benefit is nlot included. as
tile project appraisal documenit was not recognised these benefits for the project. It was found
to be that thie 37% of the project benefits were derived from the VOC savings and the balance
63% from the passenger time savings as the Olcott Mawatha is a center- foi bius. rail and
businiess terminial in the city of Colombo.
7.9    The detailed annual costs and benefits used in the economic evaluation are provided
in table 1.3. The Net Present Value (NPV) at 10%  discount rate of this component is
estimated as Rs 437.66 million against the Rs 507 million showin in the appraisal report, and
the EIRR at 29.48 against 28% of the appraisal report and the C/B ration (at 10% discount
rate) 049. It should be noted that the only ten years of benefits have been considered for this
analvsis.



Economic Benefits (Olcott Mawatha)
Year      VOC Savings       Time Savings   I  Total Benefits
(Rs Millions)    (Rs Millions)      (Rs Millions)
1998         24.42              40.20             64.62
1999         30.89              48.40             79.30
2000          39.08             58.28             97.36
2001          49.44             70.18             119.61
2002          62.54             84.50             147.04
2003          65.10             97.00             162.09
2004          67.76             111.34            179.10
2005          70.53             127.80            198.34
2006          73.42             146.70            220.12
2007          75.49             151.96            227.45
2008          77.62             157.40            235.02
Source: ICR Study, July 1999, TSPC.
7.10   The economic costs of the Maradana Junction Improvement component are composed
of construction. equipment, and maintenance costs only and environmental benefits are not
included. The construction and equipment costs are summarised below. The additional
maintenance costs of the Maradana Junction component was obtained from the Colombo
Municipal Council and it is assumed that amount will remain during the project life.
7.11   The economic benefits of the Maradana Junction Improvement include savings in
vehicle operating costs and passenger time costs, as summarised in the following table. It was
found that 61% of the project benefit derived from VOC savings and the balance 39% from
passenger timesaving. Average speeds have increased and journey times have decreased as a
result of improvements to Maradana Junction. This is slightly different from the estimated
benefits of the appraisal report (i.e., VOC saving of 60% and passenger time saving of 40%).
Economic Investment Costs (Maradana Jct. Improvement)
Year        Construction     Road Furniture      Total Cost
& Equipment          (Rs)
1994            -
1995          46.732              -               46.732
1996          85.799            15.988            101.787
1997          55.293             0.157            55.450
1998          12.404               -              12.404
1999            -         I



Source: WS Atkins International, UK, ICR, June 1999.
7.12   The detailed annual costs and benefits used in the economic evaluation are provided
in the table 1.4. The NPV (10% discount rate) of this component is estimated Rs 133.8
million, EIRR 24.58%, and C/B ratio 0.51. It was found that in the project appraisal report,
NP'V was Rs 199 million (10% discount rate) EIRR was 24%. C/B ratio was not given in the
appraisal report.
Economic Benefits (Maradana Jct. Improvement)
Year      VOC Savings      Time Savings     Total Benefits
(Rs Millions)   (Rs Millions)     (Rs Millions)
1998          17.30            11.20            28.50
1999          22.69            14.61            37.30
2000          29.76            19.05            48.81
2001          39.04            24.84            63.88
2002          51.20            32.40            83.60
2003          52.96            33.54            86.50
2004          54.78            34.72            89.49
2005          56.66            35.94            92.59
2006          58.60            37.20            95.80
2007          59.49            38.24            97.73
2008          60.40            39.30            99.70
Source: ICR Study, July 1999, TSPC.
8.0    Future Plans
8.1    The Colombo Urban Transport Study has proposed comprehensive short-, medium-,
and long-term plans for the Colombo Urban Area and has developed detailed design and
feasibility plans that are ready for immediate implementation. The GOSL will allocate funds
directly to Provincial Councils and Local Authorities for road development and maintenance
commencinig from next year. The Colombo Municipal Council has prepared programs for
road rehabilitationi and maintenanice and has made considerable progress in establishing a
framework for road mainteniance by setting up a road inventory database, with a pavement
management system. However, they are poorly equipped and skilled.
8.2    Open access policy has been accepted by GOSL and the first access agreement has
been entered in with Puttalam Cement. Further technical assistance will likely be required to
fully develop the policy and extend it to other companies that have expressed interest.
8.3    A draft bus policy prepared by the NDC is presently under review by 0OSL, with a
view to finalising a national bus policy. A draft "white paper" is being prepared by the IMP-



CPT-based on recommendations made in the NDC bus, rail, traffic management, and
pricing poiicy papers-to be circulated for public discussion by all the stakeholders.
8.4    The activities of the TSPC will be absorbed and consolidated within tile expanded
Planning and Monitoring Division (PMD) of MOTH. This action is in conformitv with the
guidelines given by the General Treasury and the National Planning Division, to strengthen
the planning and monitoring activities of line Ministries.
8.5    The Colombo Urban Transport Study Stage 2 has made recommendations on the
following areas:
Policy and Regulatory Actions:
- Bus Restructuring;
- Railway Services;
- Integration of Road and Rail;
- Transport Master Plan;
- Traffic Management Policy;
- City Centre Study;
- Parking Policy and Enforcement System.
Institutional Strengthening:
- Traffic Management Responsibilities;
- Institutional Framework for Bus Sector;
- Technical Assistant Requirements.
Feasibility and Pre-Feasibility Studies:
- Duplication Road Extension;
- Mass Rapid Transit (Conceptual Study);
-  Inland Container Depot:
-  Kelani Rail Bridge;
- Transport Centre at Citv Centre;
Traffic Management and Safety:
-  Pilot scheme proposals (Galle Road Dehiwela Bridge to Kudana
Junction);
-  Detailed designs of the above section with tender documents:
- Corridor programs
9.0    Key Lessons Learned
9.1    The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:



* To ensure effective and sustainable projects. the borrower and the donor agency
should understand local problems that may arise during the project preparation and
closelv work with the project executive agencies,
*  To ensure effective project impleiinentation, it is essential to prepare a practical and
detailed implementationi plan;
*  To ensure successful institutional strengthening all proposed reforms and/or policies
shiould be grounded In sufficient understanding of the social, political, environment
and cultural aspects in addition to the economic aspects and tested through sensitivity
analysis before agreement between the borrower and IDA, for iiclusion in the credit
agreement, if necessary.
To assure that benefits from rehabilitating or improving road infrastructure in urban
areas are achieved, it is necessary to include a component for the informal urban
sector, such as pavement hawkers;
To facilitate effective project implementation, it is advisable to start the bidding
process for all component in advance to avoid unnecessary delays:
e It is advisable to get private contractors for road construction and maintenance to
assure the development of local road construction industry,
X  To ensuIre smoothi project implementation, the Project Monitoring and Implemlienting
Unit should be a permanent part of the system:
* To ensure sustainability of urban road rehabilitation and of traffic management
svstemis, it is essential that the organisation responsible for pavement manlagement
and traffic managemenit should be part of the executing agency:
*  To avoid deviation from project objectives, there should be a formial appraisal of
chaniges, in the same maniner as the original project appraisal, to ensure that expected
benefits will still be achiieved,
*  To ensure  smooth  implementation  and   avoid  cancellatioln  of procurement
components it is necessary to sustain constant dialogue between the Bank and the
client at Task Manager/line Ministry level in order to facilitate adjustment where
justified at the early stages of the Project.



Appendix- 1
Post-Evaluation of the Project
1.0    Measurement of Economic Costs and Benefits
1.1    Costs: This post-evaluation has determined economic costs by subtracting duties and
taxes (i.e., customs duties, goods and services tax, business turnover tax, payroll tax, fuel tax,
and defence levy) from actual financial costs.
1.2    Benefits: This post-evaluation has quantified economnic benefits relating to savings in
vehicle operating costs and in passenger time, as further described below. For consistency
with the project appraisal report, benefits of savings in air pollution have not been included.
Benefits have been calculated separately for Maradana Junction and Olcott Mawatha, which
are the two elements of the Traffic System Management component of the project.
1.3    Traffic Volumes: The initial project appraisal report used the SATURN traffic model
to analyse present and future traffic flows "with" and "without" the project. This model
relates land use and demographic characteristics to the distribution of vehicular traffic and
includes a capacity restraint feature that permits analysis of the effects of congestion on traffic
speed and on route choice. The model assigns travel based on vehicle trip matrices derived
from origin-destination data. For consistency, the SATURN model was also used to calculate
link volumes for the Maradana Junction and Olcott Mawatha post-evaluations. "Before" and
"after" data were collected from roadside surveys in 19967 and in 1999, respectively.
1.4    Vehicle Operating Costs: Vehicle operating costs (VOC) were calculated using the
HDM-1II stand-alone model under two levels of roughness (IRI 3 and IRI 6) and for nine
vehicle types (as summarised in Table 1.1). Cost inputs were abstracted from studies done
under Stages 1 and 2 of the Colombo Urban Transport Study and updated by the Transport
Studies and Planning Centre (summarised in Table 1.2).
Table 1.1 - Vehicle Types
Car (including Jeeps)         Nissan Sunny
Utility vehicles (van and pickup)  Toyota Hi-ace van
Three wheelers                Bajaj
Small truck                   Isuzu Elf 6 ton
Medium truck                  Tata 1210 se
3-axel truck                  Nissan 12 ton
Articulated truck             Leyland/Nissan 16 ton
Medium bus                    Mitsubishi Rosa 29 seats
Large bus                     Tata 909 45 seats
7  Colombo Urban Transport Study Stage 1, Halcrow Fox Associates, UK, 1996 October, November
and O-D Survey by ECL for RDA, 1999 April



Table 1.2.- Vehicle Operating Cost 199S
.33Iciilmnwnt:3.s.   ,~3    13c,olm ril.  . 33)3C,,33s,,.i* rIlnse 33453303  Prow,<
Vehicle Specific Inputs
Vehicle Type
Vehicle                                  Car         Van          Bus        Small   lAediurm         3-Axel  Articulated
Truck       Truck        Truck        Truck
Basic Chaactenstics
......  I,hni   li,qht f3,,j                                         I. /h)I      2.- ...     4.'/h9       4 Nile       533,Yt  N 4.33303        13 .13
EXSA I /    re*rpl r ehi, 1                                             3 11        D3.3         (1.5         a I          I 1         J. a         S 
,mhrrfad,,,per-ehicle                                                                 2                  2                  2            J            5
.N..be,r  Tjee pee ehide                                                  4            4           6            4            6          III          14
Passxerpae,l hifk                                                      I.            3.7        J4.4         1r9          22            1.r         1.1
Vehicle  b3Wzation Data
4-4-",Vensce Lif, (Ye-n                                                 16           16           14 J        1          .231           2(3          :3
s....l . dihwir (hoau,n,                                               :-1         5630         9se          450        1,1133        N3I3         -An
3,3331eI.e,(6330                                          15.33Win    233.333"     43 3(33(3    43,3300     41 3333        55(3 1C(10  3(333333
1)epeee.ano                                                               3           !            I            I            I           /            1
t InihiM r id- :                                                          I           J                                                  3        
.i.... I niaenw Rate (%l - Fiae,roil                                   15.3          5.33       153a         15.3         15.3        1/5.V3       (sa
oppnrpftio,Cal,I funpLnl (7%           E-Enous.                       123         1/2.t7        12.3         12.0        12.a         12.e         12.33
Unit Cost: Financial
.Ne#r-         hErJeel    sce  ..lRI)                              96.000   1.35e0.00    1.790.0,0  1(.30.011  1.340.300    .3.400   Z. 020.3we
.%0neew ,.dt -ime3eilar peie 1.VR)
Voe 3e m33.603                                                                    ..009        4.60        4.600        9.900       12.800       12.633
maiuenace wab, Cnast (RA'he)                                          T330        SN0.00       5e.0o       so. of       $0.00        SO3.        510.00
(.  ries .rt(Rvht                                                      3320      2:3.e         42.00       4708         47.0         4730         47.00
P-.r s     Maeldd.e   Rvir                                           5.'1.i       233          11.1#       11.10        61.10        11.10        I1.10
Cnrr dduv -ot (Rvh)                                                       33          0 a                       0            3 e                      a
Fud rat (Rs,)                                                         51.)          3.2 13.2    U13          13.2        13.2         13.2         13.2
Lh*riat cn   (tfolitel)                                                64.0        64.0         04.0         640         64.9         64.0         64.0
0lehad pa  ,,,hk.eheskRa1                                              1.9J        1.03         1.44         1.11        2.07          .16         2.99
(a! ek,h tke nc- -l                                                   0033        33.03       11.0a6       3304         33.6         1. 12        3t1.
(nes kichk a.ne        -csqr)                                        I 3         1.00 tl       .0         a 70         1.32         1.32         1. so
Unit Cost: Economic
'e303'ncaeekg,omo,,hidetpirce (S3.R)                              .3341,2 13    866(3440  1.634.700   1.160.533   3.996.U00  1. 7      .333  1.641.2.5
e-,aoe.rij a lp               (Sil.R)                                                                                                                    .o, 3 1 res  ,naIr edr,    imre drpr.' 4.r3
333333 .se,U                                                     2.5533       .3.3367      3.335       3.600        7..775   /133.) 5        l33.155        ho,d-e     -W,            .-,ee b.o.nrr 91:Y' NPC
((33,nnaleara (aloe,cosftRh-, (RsIhJ9 39.25                                      .3.233       39.25        39.215       39.25        33.25       39.25
cL nw 35  ostRvhn l                                                   J.;l3       16.49       3297         36.90        .6. 90       3399         36 90
Peooe-gerdd.,  - f.Rhlsr                                            4124d        23145         A.31I        3(03        33.01        33.31        1N. of       13.!p         3.,e.         cuee(3,addt,ae
;-.3n3 ditet    r Rvh,                                                U.(anll3     3t3.         33.00        (aa    o    (1.0        3l.00    N     1O    Ntre I ls k.    dr-ef-  .            .o      ,dr .. dAeisud
F.d  ost (*AR,r)                           t.2                                     M. o          .00        3300            w 60 .    a       a tu330  3.                                      - f ' i uodlo -aus hrd A
uL.reiecrneQUi         ) t;43                                                      J.3.         4S.0.       4*.t         *. .        45.3         453        rhpao (ao3.np,faa.dehe  ns                    9rr
-ureheedIe.thin,   A -    lkRd                                        141            .5         31S60        3.53        U.999        039          I.35        ^A42.A1,s Is
Other Data
Source: Consultant and Transport Studies and
PaatlL'   (U 3                                                                        o            U            0 N                      13          3o            Planning Center
A,le,d-n~nda Jo cffi cn,                                               345         e.35         N0o0        /t65         3165         31. 335      3333
P,,rjeyltdf-tI  -          nr.sy eet)                                 I xa         2.70         453         4.00         .3. 20       5 .23 5a 75
lao-ia,nn .s,d den/g  po-- (IIP1                                        .3           43          66           54           73         1433         /6
V-umuna  -d hnm A     irpXrp-   ((IP)                                   2:2           q          32          602          103         3533          la"
1)3iu  Vopef (arl.,0                                                    33X          34           9J3          Jl          0.s          33           .
E-Vetj effid-y fcc ,r                                                 I. t1.5      3t5         e 933       ( NR90       1090                      N 33  33933
113,,lr,3i1 Z.ihose3ti                                                 it35          NS          36           13           315         33.S        0.5
C:dibe oteden -   ngre .pe ra.q                                      4.33m3       2.400t       2.500       2.400        2,100e       1.00         1. 70
lIe. (Weibaul327                                                                  3333 3J      1 27         31 .33      311          ((31         33.24
IRIR14X                                                           159-n        /34.0        212          19 (34.M    177.70       1 3          133933
1 . D)rti,
IM1                                                                     e UN       I so         1.110        I tc        I An         I "P         / .af
F13  1Ad.-3-3 E.                                                         W 13      1033           iS         1 00        1.15         3 33         1.13
I i ur
FRA Till                                                            3N27         3N25          12.         33.5         31 29        N29         31111
1-R4TIMI(1E4)                                                        33           33.13        3 UN3       311J3        a (.'J M r9   .9         el. U2
Rerre,e-e  cast oc peopluriesn 4                    1n tr(e 3n3,      3 3333       33333        (( 3.10    o   W0    N 3 .33           .i3         3 333
(1U3133336633 ererh     ateunorf n heer33ee (d.o'31                   333333      .J3333        4.33        400          5.14         -            -US3
313o,ic,o33e. {1!l eearnd, per Ie,                                    333333      .1:.533 .1313              350  3 so   3.01         i .1.0      13. l
t        t..5  rnsf 3c,,dwd  . m ie (d.,' 3,1335                      3(33    11   316          (316         (314        3316           13         313.6
33 CO.' c3srtR ff 33/3,11331ror nn3331/ (1 eE 36..tlS'34               33133      l: -X2        I2          1: 's       1:.76        12.3         12.7X
CP,,IllE -6i                                                         25 r3         63.3(        1.5I         S. S        4.0 f0       36           05 33t
!P(133E. 33{                                                         13 (         3339Nm      2N3.311     33300        81333        .13.33       3333333NN
3 11?,1   oF                                                          33.23        33333 F      3333         3 30 6v     31033t       33 333       33333 a
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ or,,                                       1) N( n, MD               f. tio       1,0            of,11    N
31,riatenaace (elior
CbL,,                                                                M  3i33     10NO        123033       1533.0       53333.00     1533 33t3   403333
LIpj,                                                                   S          N S: 3        .47         3.5s2       3.52         e i2           ( ,  2
L1.33 I.N                                                                          33           3(3N6t             _ 00    f 33        306        33 333
0I3313.33 26



Table 1.1- Vehicle Operating Cost 1998 per 1,000 km
Implementioti ( t iiriipicioiti Reprtrr ( I P r  At IRI 2          'At IRI 6                   At IRI 10
11DA.I-(,I Otipt for TYpicii l inproiie ltieier Cotlomnhbo I rhanl Truirpsprr Prnjec. 3' lIeter wide. rwo tur 2'. J un U%hirdre., 0.8 silh, tintr,ici
0(1lomi xb-haIr.r
Vehicle        Financial      Economic       Average        Financial    Economic    Financial   Economic
Cost (Rs/km)   Cost (Rslkm)   Speed (kmihrl  Cost iRs!km)  Cost (Rskrmi  (0ist Rs,ikm) ( o,t R Is  h
Basic Characteristics
2,000 AADT
Car                          19,100.0        8,400.0           66.3      20,162.2        8,867.1    22.254.8      9,787.5
Van                          17,000.0        .7700.0           58.7      17,945 4       8,128.2     1,.808.0    '5,971.8
Bus                          19,500.0        15,100.0          60.9      20.584.4       IS,939.7    22.2TO.9     l .594N.
Smnall Tnick                 11,900.0         9,000.0          53.4      lM.561.8        9,500.5     l3,,86 56    10,486,6
Medium Truck                 17,600.0        13,300.0          53.8       18.578.8      14.039.0u   2 0.-.77      rs.496.8
Large Truck                  20,700.0        15.600.0          57.6       21,851.2      16,46 7i    24,119.1      1..1 -6. -.
Articulated Truck            28,900.0        21,800.0          58.7       30,507.2      23.012.3    33. . 73t6   25,400.8
8,000 AADT
Car                          19,200.0        8,400.0           65.0      20.2678         8,867.1    22.371.4       9,78z5
Van                          17,000.0         7,800.0          57.8      17,945.4       8.233.8     19.808.0      9,088.4
Bus                          19,600.0        15,200.0          60.0      20,690.0       16,045.3    22,837.4     17,710.7
Small Truck                   11.900.0        9,000.0          52.9       12,561.8       9,500.5     13.865.6     10,486.6
Medium Truck                  17,600.0       13,20QO           53.3       18.5788       13,934.1    20.507.1     15,380.3
Large Truck                  20,700.0        15,600.0          56.8       21,851.2      16,467.6    24,119.1     18. 76.7
Articulated Truck            29,000.0       21,900.0           57.9       30.612.8      23,11 7.9   33,790.1     25.517.3
Unit Cost: Financial
14,000 AADT
Car                          19.300.0        8,500.0           62.3      20.373,3        8,972.7    22,487.9     9t904.0
Van                          17.200.0        7,900.0           56.1      18,156.5       8.339.3     20,04L.0      9.204.9
Bus                          19,800.0       15,400.0           57.9      20,901.1       16,256.4    23.070.5     1 7.943. 7
Small Truck                   12.000.0        9,000.0          51.9       12.667.3       9,500.5     13.982.)     10,486.6
Medium Truck                 17,600.0       13,200.0           52.2       18,578.8      13.934.1    20,507.1     15,380.3
Large Truck                  20,700.0       15,500.0           55.3      21,851.2       16.362,0    24,119.1     18.060.2
Articulated Truck            29,100.0       22.000.0           56.2       30,718.3      23.223.5    33.906.6     25,633.9
20,000 AADT
Car                          19.500.0         8,600.0          59.5      20,584.4        9.078.3    22,720.9     10,020.5
Van                          17,400.0        8,000.0           54.3      18,367.7       8.444.9     20,274.0      9,321.4
Bus                          20.100.0        15,600.0          55.8      21,217.8       16,467.6    23,420.0     18.176.7
Small Truck                   12000,0        9,000.0          50.8       12.667.3       9,500.5     13,982.1    10,486.6
Mfedium Truck                17,600.0        13.200.0          51.0       18,578.8      13.934.1    20.507.1     15,380.3
Large Truck                  20,700.0        15,500.0          53.6      21,851.2       16,362.0    24,119,)     18,060.2
Articulated Truck            29,300.0       22100.0            54.4      30,929.4       23,329.0    34,139.6     25.,75. 4
26,000 AADT
Car                          19,800.0        8,700.0           56.6      20,901.1        9.,183.8   23.070a5     10.137.0
i an                         17,600.0        8.100.0           52.5      18,578.8       8.551.5     20.507.1      9,4379
Bus                          20.500.0        15800.0           53.s7     21,640.1       16,6 78.7   23.886.1     18,409.8
Small Truck                   12.(00.0        9.100,0          49.7       12.667,3       9,606.1     13.982.1     10.603.1
Medium Truck                  .,h600.J0      13,200.0          49.9       18,578.8      13.934./1    20.507 1    15.380.3
Large Truck                  20,700.0        15,500.           51.9      21.851.2       16,362.0    24,119.1     18,060.2
Artculated rruck             29,500.0        22.200.0          52.6      31,140.6       23,434.6    34.3-2.,7    25,866.9
32,000 AADT
Car                          20,300.0        8,800.0           53.0      21,428.9       9.289.4     23,653.)     10.253.5
I'lar                        18,000.0        8.300.0           49.9      19.001.0       8.761.6     20,973.2      9.671.0
Bus                          21.10(.0        16.200.0          50.8      22.273.4       1 .lo0.9    24,585.2     18.8'5.8
Small TrucA                  12,200.0         9.200.0          47.8       12.878.5       9.711.6     14.215.1    10."! 9.6
.1redium TrutcA              1 I 00.0        13.300.0          47 9       18.684.3     /4.,03 9.6   20,623.6     15,496.8
Large Truck                  20,700.0        15.600.0          49.5      21.851.2      16.467.6     24,119.1     18.,76.7
Articulated Truck            29.900.0       22,500.0           49.9      31.562.8       23.751.3    34,838.7     20.216.4
08/13/99 27



Implementation Program for Colombo Urban Transport Project (Financial Cash Flow)
(egrgs in nillions of St t-ankan Rupees)
Agency:                   Project: Colombo Urban Transport Pri.ete (No.. 1i)  Actual Expenditure:  FA  Rs.       158.50
T-rprt WWI5t6. and                                                                                CF  Rs.        32.50
Ptanning Centre (TSPC)
Thrust Area:              Start Date:
Infrasat.cmOveeloetprmt & TA                                          Cumul. Expenditures as at 1/1/99:          953.7
Target Date for Completion:  314tec-99      Total Estimated Cost:                    1,144.70
Item/Activity     Source  Expect   Cumul       Quarter I           Quarter2            Quarter 3           Quarter4           Total for  GRAND
Location Etc.        of   Date of to end on  Jan   Feb  Mar -Apr    ay un   Jul   Aug   Sep    Oct    Nov   Dec-   1999    TOTAL
Head/ Prog. Proj. Code   Funds CompleL  Dec. 98                       1 9  9 9                                                               (all yrs)
I - PHYSICAL INVESTMENTS
1.1 LotusRoadt stCrossStre  Wum  15.04.1995    17.7                                                                                      0.00     17.69
GOSL               7.6                                                                                        0.00      7.58
total             25.3                                                                                       0.00     25.27
1.2 1 st Cross St./ Bastian Mawa  Ws  15.04.1995    23.8                                                                                 0.00     23.82
GOSL               14.8                                                                                       0.00     14.83
total             38.7                                                                                       0.00     38.65
1.3 BastanlsMaw./Technical Co  we  15.07.199  14.5                                                                                       0.00     14.51
GOSL               7.2                                                                                        0.00      7.20
total             21.7                                                                                        0.00    21.71
1.4 Bastian Mawatha        WB  01.06.1996    25.1                                                                                        0.00     25.13
GOSL              12.7                                                                                        0.00     12.71
total             37.8                                                                                        0.00    37.84
1.5 Sri Sangaraja Maviatha  we  31.07.1996    17.1                                                                                       0.00     17.08
GOSL.               8.9                                                                                       0.00      8.89
total             26.0                                                                                        0.00    25.97
1.6 Fort Station Footbndge  we  30.04.1997    46.1                                                                                       0.00     46.10
GOSL               3.9                                                                                        0.00      3.90
total             50.0                                                                                        0.00    50.00
1.7 Beira Ela! St. Sebastian Bri we  31.03.1996  3.4                                                                                     0.00      3.38
GOSL                1.7                                                                                       0.00      1.71
total              5.1                                                                                        0.00     5.09
1.8 Oltott Mawatha Corridor    we  30.06.1999    53.3                  22.40                                                            22.40     75.67
(Road Surfacing)        GOSL               47.6                      9.90                                                             9.90     57.51
total            100.9                      32.3                                                             32.30    133.18
1.9 Olcott Mawatha Corridor    we  31.05.1998  0.0                                                                                       0.00      0.00
(Trafrfic Signals)      GOSL                0.0                                                                                       0.00      0.00
total              0.0                                                                                        0.00     0.00
1.10 Okcot Mawatha Corr.    we  31.01.1998    6.0                       1.05                                                             1.05      7.08
(Street Lightng)       GOSL                0.0                       0.48                                                             0.48      0.48
total              6.0                       1.5                                                              1.53     7.56
1.11 Fort Intersection     we  31.05.1997     0.0                                                                                        0.00      0.00
GGOSL              0.0                                                                                        0.00      0.00
total              0.0                                                                                       0.00      0.00
1.12 Maradana Junction      wE  31.07.1997   182.4                                                                                       0.00    182.44
GOSL              93.2                                                                                        0.00     93.17
total            275.6                                                                                        0.00    275.61
1.20 Bastian Mawatha Bus Stan  we  30-6-1999        4.27          3.01   2.24   3.45   0.42               1.12                          14.51     14.51
GOSL                     1.83         1.29   0.96   2.45   0.18               0.48                            7.19      7.19
total                     6.1          4.3   3.2   5.9   0.6                   1.6                           21.70    21.70
1.13 Consultancy &         wE  31.08.1999   239.1  4.80   0.45   2.50   1.50   1.40   1.70   0.80   0.46   0.56   0.56   0.56   0.56    15.85    254.96
Implementation Support    GOSL             19.9  0.23   0.23   0.35   0.34   0.46   0.34               0.34    0.23   0.84   0.34     3.69     23.61
totat            259.0   5.0   0.7   2.8   1.8   1.9   2.0   0.8   0.5   0.9            0.8   1.4   0.9       19.5   278.57
of which TSPC             Wa                12.0                                                                                        0.3    12.30
GOSL              19.9                                                                                         317    23.61
Sub-total (all of the above)  WB             628.6   9.1   0.5   5.5  27.2   4.9   2.1   0.8   0.5   1.7           0.6   0.6   0.6       53.8   682.37
GOSL             217.5   2.1   0.2   1.6  11.7   2.9   0.5   0.0   0.0   0.8            0.2   0.8   0.3       21.3   238.78
total            848.1  11.1   0.7   7.1  38.9   7.8   2.6   0.8   0.5   2.5            0.8   1.4   0.9      78.1   921.15
Olcott Mawatha sub-total    We               207.0   4.3   0.0   3.0  25.7   3.5   0.4   0.0   0.0   1.1           0.0   0.0   0.0       38.0   244.97
(excluding support, 1.13)  GOSL            104.4   1.8   0.0   1.3  11.3   2.5   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.5           0.0   0.0   0.0       17.6   122.00
total            311.4   6.1   0.0   4.3  37.0   5.9   0.6   0.0   0.0   1.6            0.0   0.0   0.0       55.5   366.97
Maradana Junction sub4otal   wve             182.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0   182.44
(excludingsupport, 1. 13)  GOSL             93.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0    93.17
total            275.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0   0.0   0.0        0.0   275.61
11 - CONSULTANT SERVICES                                                                                                                            0.00
Colombo Urban Transport Study  we  30.06.1999    42.8  6.67   4.30   3.40   6.40   8.50     6.40          2.40           6.34           44.41     87.23
GOSL               0.0  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00         0.00         0.00            0.00            0.00      0.00
total             42.8   6.7   4.3   3.4   6.4   8.5   0.0   6.4   0.0   2.4            0.0   6.3            44.41    87.23
Air Quality Management Study   we  30-06-199  21.9                0.56   0.45                                                             1.01    22.91
GOSL               7.9                 0.20   0.20                                                            0.40      8.32
total             29.8                 0.8   0.7                                                              1.41    31.23
SLR Restructuring/ Pnivatization  we  30.06.1999    15.5   0.24   0.23   1.20   0.34   1.30               6.00                            9.32    24.82
C OSL              0.0          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00               0.00                           0.00      0.00
total             15.5          0.2   0.2   1.2   0.3   1.3                    6.0                            9.32    24.82
TAtoNTC                     we  30-06-199     16.4  0.90   1.80   2.00   6.80         3.60   3.60   0.70                                 19.40    35.80
Bus Crew & Staff Training  GOSL               2.4  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00         0.00   0.00   0.00                                 0.00      2.40
total             18.8   0.9   1.8   2.0   6.8             3.6   3.6   0.7                                   19.40    38.20
Route Costing/ Strategy     we  30.09.1996     0.7                                                                                       0.00      0.69
GOSL               0.0                                                                                        0.00      0.00
total             0.7                                                                                        0.00     0.69
IIIt-TSPC                    em                12.0                                                                                         0.3    12.30
SOSL    _         19.9                                                                                         3.7    23.61
fV-TOTAL                     we               725.9  12.4   6.8   8.7  39.8  10.2   6.6  10.8   1.2   9.0            0.6   6.9   0.6    113.4   839.30
GOSL.        i227.8   0.2   0.2   0.5  10.9   0.5   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.3              0.2   0.8   0.3       14.5   242.31
total        .  963.7  12.6   7.0   9.2  50.7  10.7   6.9  10.8   1.2   9.3            0.8   7.7   0.9    127.9  1,081.61
NOTES & SOURCES:
from TSPC, November 1999



i -  6  /   /       <                     ~~~~~~~~TRAFFIC SYASTEM CMTA,NA GEPGMENT &
oil I ~~~~~~~~MARADANA JUNCTION IMEPROVEMENT
POC-RT
tl e z ( i\  \\\- w \\ X --



File IM[)\1-ll m1odel assuLm1es uMconstrained operating conditions and tlhcretore exciudcies the
etfects ot concestion. As congestion costs are significant for urban vehicle operatioln. sLIclI as
in Colombo. the VOC results from the HDM-III were adjusted using data from related stidies
in India, which has similar conditions. This is shown in the following table, which compares,
Indian data for 2-lane radial arteries and urban streets (capacities of 3200 passenger car ullits
IPCL') of tv.per hlour) to data for Olcott Mawatha (capacity of 850 to '--A) PCUIs per
hour).
Average Vehicle Speed (Kph)
Traffic      T            Indian Data                  O[cott
(Volume/Capacity) f Radial Arteries f Urban Street         Mawatha
0.0- 0.5            40.0              30.5             34.5
0.5 - 0.6            35.0              26.5              32.2
0.6 - 0.7            31.5              25.0             25.5
0.7 - 0.8            28.0               2.5              23.0
0.8 - 0.9            21.5              1 7.5            20.0
0.9- 1.0             15.0              15 .0
>1.0               12.0             11.0               10
Source: Journey Time Survey. June 1999. TSPC.
The adiustmenlt of VOC for conrgestion effects was made in three areas: (a) fuel costs: (b)
otlher distance related costs: and (c) time related costs.  Fuel costs \were adJusted by first
calculating thle ftuel consunmption at different speeds for an average xehicle (To\ota 1-Hiace
Van) using the HDM IlI VOC stand-alone model and detenrining the fuel consumption tactor
relatina to vehicle speed for each Volume/Ca'acit ratio listed above. This fuel consumptioln
tiaure wvas theni multiplied by a congestion factor that reflects the difference between
operations at constanit speeds and operations under congested conditions requiring freqcuent
speed changes. Tlis second congestion factor was taken from research results in lndia' for
txwo lane roads (see table below). The other distance-related costs (oil. tire alid inainitenanice
costs) were ad justed by takin2 one third of the conaestion factor for fuel (better than) India). as
shown in the same table. Finallv. time-related congestion cost factors were calculated hx
Averaue relationship for Colombo radial roads from CUTS I study. Halcrow Fox Associates. UK
L R. Kadivali and Associates. Updating Road User Cost Data. Final Report. Ministr- of Surface
Transport Road Wing and Asian Deveiopment Bank. New Delhi. November i99 1. The street
conditions in terms of vehicle mix. road width and side frictions tested in India are similar to those
bzr\ed inl Colom bo.
-28-



uEiui.^ lrc t it)\ 1D 11 Vt ). el !o cStillC tihe rtduction iln (ai unlalLti O\CVPiC2ii uIU
tp I 1cr ,Ii Iic  d L       itcrese aSCC al kilts  ieS .. hicher pr(lructid it\ ol  eiilcic> 0 ato  h
aepreciatioin costs per kini o\er lifetimie kilometres of %ehicles made possibhle hx nicreised
speed under tJe project.  The average factor for these time related costs x\as determined
through a series of HDM  111 runs which demonstrated that for average Sri Lankan v,ehicle
costs. the percent reduction in trime costs ovas closelv related to the percent reduction in -ine.ie
of tra\el \\ith an elasticitv of -0.27. The resuiting factors are summarised hel\xx for \:OCC
comiiponienits and passenger tine.
Congestion Factors for Colombo Radial Roads
Traffic               Fuel Factors                          Time-
(Volumre/Capacity)      Speed    | Congestion    Distance        Related      Passenger
0.0 - 0.5          -1.6           1.06          1.02          1.10          1.37
0.5 - 0.6           1.38          1.20          1.07          1.IS          1.57
0.6-0.7             1.50          1.29          1.10            10    1    1.73
0.7- 0.8            1.64          1.38          1.13          1.25    [      .92
0.8 - 0.9           2.05          1.47          I. I6         1.41         2.5 !
0.9- 1.0           2.83           1.53          1.18          I7           3.6 0
> 1.0             3.43          1.71          1.19          i.97          4.10
Vehicle Operating Costs Savings: Savings in VOC were computed for Olcott Nlawatha and
Maradana Junction project components by determining the number of vehicles per day that
%xould be affected bv each project component and the congestion conditions that would
prevail on each of the affected roads. The weighted average VOC for each road section were
thenl calculated for peak and off-peak periods. with different congestion factors applied
according to the level of congestion with and without the project. The resLults - ithout the
pro jectf were based on 1995 data to avoid tihe effects of diverted traffic from  the Baseline
Road Rehabilitationi project.
Plassenaer Time Value: The value of Passenger time in tihe Colombo area \\,as calculated
using the Passenger Income Survey carried out by the TSPC in March i999. See folloxxint_
table.
PassengTer Type              Time Value (Rs per iiour)
Motorcycle            F              24.0
Car               1              49.00
Bus. rail or trUck                      7. 0
9Rource: Paissen-er I ncome SLir\ ev. \1 aLcCh 1 ()i. T9PC
Sa\ ings in passenser time for each project component xmere calculated in a manner simiilar to
\OC  sa\ mrs. The total tra%el times on the Colombo road net\\ork \\ith and \\ithlOUt the
project \~ere determined from  the computer modelling exercise and times \\ere related to
-29-



JiICllcnt \ ch icc t\ pe accord in, to th e t:aflic comn posiI on on Ithe aliccted roads. Th1: :i racX
chicl('Ie OCtIlpalnC\ \\,IS thell L>cd tO col0lteIC tile SI\ ilns ill timie tl  kehicie ct ".il ;ni
multiplied b% the appropriate \alue per hour as calculated above.'  rhe total _ialue of
passenger s time saving was then calculated by adding tite results for all vehicle cateaories
and summarising on an annual basis for each project component.
Economic Evaluation Method: In order to evaluate each component of the kroiect. a NTPV
EIRR. and C./B ratio Nxas calculated. T'he NPV and EIRR of each componlenlt investment were
computed bv discounting all actual costs and estimated benefits over the life o1 the project ( 1
years, as urban condition are changed more rapidly than the rest of the country). No residual
value was assumed for rehabilitation works or equipment at the end of the project life as this
was not done in the feasibilitv studv.
B. Evaluation of Olcott Mawatha Rehabilitation
Actual Project Cost: The economic costs of this component are composed of construction.
equipment. and maintenance costs. The actual economic construction and equipment costs
are sumrmarised below:
Economic Investment Costs (Olcott Mawatha)
Year        Construction      Road Furniture       Totai Cost
t_______                           & Equipment             (Rs)
1994           32.382             0.441              32.823
1995           42. 399            9.555              51.954
1996           63.630             8.260              71.890
1997           64.827             23.303             88.13(1
I   1998           21.882              0.000             2 ' 1.882
1999  ~        21.343             11.095             32.438
Source: WS Atkins International, UK. ICR. June 1999.
The additional mainitenlanice costs of tile relhabilitated section of Olcott Nlamsathla were
obtained from the Colombo Muniicipal CouLncil (periodic and routine) over tile life of the
project. This is more practical than what was used in the project feasibilit' studs.
Economic Benefit: The economic benefits of the rehabilitated section of the Olcon %Ia\\atha
include savings in vehicle operating costs and passenger time costs. as sumimiarised in the
follox. ing table. Please note that carbon reduction and air pollution reduction benefit is niot
inIclIcled. as the project appraisal document did not recognised these benefits for the project.
It N aIS found that * . 0 of the project benefits * ere deriied trom \ JC savings and the balance
6i3% fromil passenger timesaving. as Olcott Mawatha is a ma jor bus and rail terminial.
Vehicle occupancy survey. pre-project surveys of Olcort Mawatha. TSPC'CMC. 1995
-30-



Economlic Benerits i Olcott Mawathat
Y ear     VOC Savings      Time Savings      Total Benefits
(Rs Millions)    (Rs Millions)     (Rs Millions;
1998         2 .42            40.20             64.62
19(9         30.89             48.40      '     793f)
2000         39.08             58.28            9 7.3 6
2001             49.44            70.18             119.61
'00'         62.54             84.50            1 4 7.04
2003         65.10             97.00            162.09
2004         67.76             111.34           179.10
2005         70.53            127.80            198.34
2006         73.42             146.70           2 20.1 '2
2007         75.49             151.96           227.45
2008         77.62             157.40           235.02
Source: ICR Study, July 1999. TSPC.
Economic Evaluation Results: The detailed annual costs and benefits used in the economic
evaluation are provided in table 1.3. The Net Present Value (NPV) at 10% discount rate of
this component is estimated as Rs 437.66 million against Rs 507 million shoxnn in the
appraisal report. and the EIRR at 29.48 against 28% in the appraisal report and the C/B ration
(at 10% discount rate) is 0.49. It should be noted that onlv ten vears benefit have been
considered for this analysis.
C. Evaluation of Maradana Junction Improvement
Project Costs: The economic costs of this component are composed of construction.
equipmenit and maintenance costs only, and environmental benefits are not included. The
construction and equipment costs are summarised below. The additional mainteniance costs
of the Maradana Junction component was obtained from the Colombo Mlunicipal Counci and
it \\as assumed that tilis amounit would remain during the project iife.
Economic Benefit: The economic benefits of the Maradana Junctionl Improvement includes
savings in vehicle operating costs and passenger time costs. as summnarised in the 1;)ilov\iniL
table. It Nwas found that 61%o of tile project benefit derived from VOC savings and the balance
'9% from passenger timesaving. Average speeds have increased and journev times have
decreased as a result of ilnpro\ el11enits to Maradana Junction. This is slightly different from
the estimiated beniefits of the appraisal report (i.e.. VOC sa\ ing of 60% and passenger time
sai inu, of 40%).
-31-



:economic Investment C(osts (Maradana I.ct. Impro% client)
Year       Construction     Road Furniture      Total toit
& Equipment          (Rs)
1994 
1995          46.73 _2             ..            46.732
1996          85799- 15.988                     I101 S7
d   1997      5:'93     4      0.]5             55450
1998          12.404              -               12404
1999       _    _     _      _
Source: WS Atkiins International, UK. ICR, June 1999.
Economic Benefits (Maradana Jct. Improvement)
Year       VOC Savings       Time Savings     Total Benefits
(Rs Millions)    (Rs Millions)     (Rs Millions)
1998          17.30 )           11.20             28.50
1999         222.69             14.61             3730
2000          29.76              19.05            48.81
2001          39.04             24.84             63.88
2002           51 .20           32.40             83.60
2003          52.96             33.54             86.50
2004          54.78             34. 72            89.49
2005          56.66             35.94             9 2.59 
2006    1     58.60             37.20             95.80
2007    1     59.49             38.2 4            97.73
2008          60.40             39.30             99.70
Source: ICR Study, July 1999. TSPC.
Economic Evaluation Results: The detailed annual costs and benefits used in thc economic
evaluation are provided in table 1.4. The NP\V (10% discount rate) of this component is
estimated Rs 133.8 million. EIRR 24.58%. and C/B ratio J.51. It xxas found that in the
project appraisal report. NPV was Rs 199 million (10% discounlt rate) EIRR vNas '24%. C'B
ratio s;as not given in the appraisal report.
-32-



Appendix - 2
Survev of Performance l! Private Bus Crews
Buses were chosen at random  from  64 routes in the Western and NNorth Western
Province and 111 survey interviews were completed. The numbers of buses from each such
route are 6iven in Table I
Table 1: Distribution of Buses Surveved by Route
Route #         Frequency                 Route #            Frequency
i  I     1       2                       187                  2
2                 I i                     188                  I
L                  I___ ___ __ _ 4                200                   I
5                   ~1  3234
_____ _5 7        j       I-                     240                   2
100               5            F          245                   1
103                                       2461
104                I '     !              252                   1
107               7259                                          I
112                1                      260
1  117    '        I                      ' 26S
]  I 119       1    1      t   f          268
122                I                      270                   1
124                1                      342                   1
129               2                       400
14                 I                                            I430  I
1S3               7            ;08                      :
141                I                      30
14-                I                      549
144               2                        58
145                1                      ;62
152                I       l>564
154                1                       93i
15>5     11        l       E  ;           600                   1
163                        ,              602
166                I6 13,
168                                       636                   I
170                1645 
176                1                      654
I S               4                       9001
:   183                I                      983          
Total              9        !         System Mlissing           14
Total                IH1
3 3-



I;ll _ 'fion  IiICI IiunlO 'Crs tida  IIC'CCRILaL2 s: ' Li` IcS 111d Conl idtc    :
h.l,  o\\c n;lXt 1l \ 1(* course..
Table 2: Drivers and Conductors wvho followed the NTC Course
Total    iNtimber \\ho
* lesponse's  Followed Course P'erccin
Driivers            10      1       60               54.0
Conductors           108              58
3.     Drivers were surveyed on their compliance with 13 different traffic ruies. Drivers
who claimed that thev alvays complied with the rule wvere given a score of ?00 x\ hereas
drivers wlio claimed that thev very rarely complied were given a score of 25. Degrees of
complianice and corresponding scores are summarised beloxv:
*  Always Complies (100)
* Coomplies Most Often (75)
*    infrequent Compliance (50)
e  Complies verv rarely (25)
4.     Table 3 shoNvs, for each traffic rule, the mean laveraue) score and the stanidard
deviation for drivers who hiad followed the NTC course and for drivers wiho had not folio%xed
the course. The mean scores (compliance) are similar betwveen the two groups of dris ers for
each traffic rtile. Wlhenl statistically tested, using the standard deviation. it can be conicluded
that there is NO significant difference in driving standards between the tv o groups.  The
averaue overall score is also simiiar, further confirming that the course has not improved
drivint standards for these criteria. Tihe survev also shows that the weakest area appears to be
hn the non-use ofsairnals. No traffic ruies appear to be adhered to exceptionall\ x'.eii.
6.     Table 4 sunlimiiia-ises additional data collected from  drivers recardilne thcir driR in-
experiences and accident records. Average bus driving experience appears to be aibout '-4
vears less than total driving experience. reflecting that some drivers have dri\en othler
xehicles before becominu bus drivers. Drivers' turnover-betweeni buses. employers. and
routes-is quite high x\ iti averages o f 3-5 years. The hith de\.iatioll indicates that trnoxer
t'or some drivers is mucIL  higQher. Unreported accidents appear to be about 150%o of those
reported.  Total accidenits per driver over a four-monthi period are abotut 0.3. wvhich
corresponds to about one accident per driver per year. Figure I shows the age disiribution ot'
drivers
-34-



.nl,ll,' '. %tt:'.'> u:  )ri\' I  \\i if ia  e1 i:ii c N\t F.-I Iov cd \TR    ,L  -, c
!)ristrs  II ho                                                      Di%rcrs \\ ho,
HAVE                                                              HAVE NsOT
Followed NTC Course  j            Traffic Rules Observed             FolloMvedNTO Course
Std.                                                                 St d.
: lean     De\ iation    ,\Ntra11                                               DC\ lation
(,5 o        24.()    Compties with Speed Limits       -90                        2'.5
5 7.9         1.-3  GOSvertakes with care                            5.           '
66.3         27.2     Horning only when necessary                    67.5            7
63.8    1   24.1      Adherence to Right ofWay Wa v1.                             'I
62.9         18.7   |Yields to Pedestrians at Crossings         I   64.5           '(.3
50.0    1   29.8   ISignals before stopping/moving              1   48.5    r    '9.2
3.3    1   30.0      Sianals before turning                         49.0          29.4
55.8         1 8.0    Keeps to left hand edge                        55.0         22.6
61.7    T   25.4      Stops bus within halting place                 65.0         20.8
58.8    1   26.8      Stops bus close to the edge                    60.5         25.8
73.3    1        2    Pulls away after proper boarding               78.0         25.1
63.8         32.0     Does not allow foot-board travel          i    65           3 0. 3
61.3         27.0     Does not linger at bus halts                   60.5    1   20.9
61.1    j   13.2      Average DriverScore                            61.7         1(1.8
Table 4: Other Driver Data
Mean         Std. Deviation
DrivinQ experience (years)                                   13.5             10.2
Bus driving experience (years)                               9.9              7.2
Dri% ing same bus or for same employer- (montiils)          37.2
Driving on same route (months)                              58.3      1       60.6
Accidents reported for 1999 (until April)                    0.1               J 0.4
oAccidents unreported for 1999 (until April)                 0.2       ,         5
Driver age (years)                                     .       .               10.6
Ficqure 1: Distribution of Drivers Ac-,e (Years)
-  >



,nductort  \\el *1I~C edrwj4  k'1 ONl  .-iteria ti>ine th !   >.azne senriit  meI1Quil  .is .
. ri\ k-.   \!r LjFl\ r>     llducr>  \. hio lint e taken tlhe \TC  cour' e J.  i'o  KhQ
'ilui bea  I1t\ Uili lemlnt 1Vi01  CmeuldllCors \ttho ha\e not.  IUtCs et rSult e are  SIt  il iI
In this case. collecting passenger fares appears to be done consistently (1iot surprisinl\nI).
while noni-issue of tick-ets at time of b,oarding remaips one of the weikest areas in both
groups.
T-able :S.9cores of Coniductors Who Have/Have Not Followed NTC CouLIIr
Conductors Who                                                   Conductors Who
HAVE                                                          HAiVE NOT
Followed NTC Course              Behaviour Observed              Foliowed NTC Course
Std.                                                             Std.
Mean   i Deviation                                               M Mean    Deviation
69.4    |   24.0   !Communicates well with Driver                69.5        26.9
74.6        21.3   'Courteous to Passengers                 ' 75.0    '         0
94.0        27.2   ;Collects tickets from all passengers      9T4.5        1    .6
50.4        24.1    Issues tickets at time of boarding          47.5            9
49.6        18.7    buses nonly     standing passengers                       106
;        .~~buses only)                          jl
67.6        1       Average Conductor Score                      6,7.6        11.8
6.      Table 6 summarises additional data collected from  conductors.  Experience on the
same busiemployeriroute is loxser thani that of drivers. averaging only 2 '/: years. Conductors
also appear to charge on average once every 15 months. The averaae age for conductors is
about 28 vears (compared to 35 for drivers). As shown in Figure 2. some conductors are as
young as 16 years. Most are between 22 to 32 years with a noticeable drop after 32 years.
Only 18%/o of conductors tsere above 32 years. while those above 40 xears were only -.
Table 6: Other Conductor Data
Mean       Std. Deviation
Experience as Conductor (MIonths)                                            62.9
'Experience on same bus or same employer                    219.0             2.2
lNumilber of charges for 1999 (till April)                    0.2 '.6 
gConiductors Age (Years)                                     28.0              6      :
Ficure 2: A-e Distribution of Conductors (Years)
.GE
-36-



Tlh repilted impact ot tihc \T I&mrse e:n fare collection is given in Vblle -
Table 7: Impact on Revenue Collection after Course -
Number       Percenit
Revenue Increased after Course                   i 0         9 1
Revenue Did NOT increase after Course            '           24.3
Unable to Sav                                    10      !   9.0
ITotal                                           47          42.3k
i System Missing                                  64      |   57 6
ITotal                                      i     II          100.0
8.      An analysis of driver's responses indicates that Driving Scores increase with age of
drivers (as does driving experience). This relationship is consistent with general findings
elsewhere. Figure 3 shows this relationship. A statistical regression indicates that the average
score for a driver of 22 years is 58.2 and that this increases at 0.21 for each year. Therefore. a
driver of 3Q.years age would have on average a score of 60. while one of 40 years age would
have a score of 62. WVhile this increase is significant. it cannot be termed adequate. as the
driving score should increase much faster with age.
Figure 3 - Driving Score versus Drivers Age (Years)
90
D
0                                 !
70           coao              :      O              ~
70           a    0o 0        a
050   0         a a               0        C
a0         00 o               0
0a     co  a   0 aa
60                    o
50   a         a                                  a
50  o     a     O   c                                =
.J 40                    a  a                          a 
0.)            a    a                          a 
.r  30  , _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _ _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _   S. .   
20           30           40           50           60            7 r
Drivers Age
-37.



9.     (C"omiiparisoni ofdrixers' scores wvith their employment prior to driving a bus also gives
<idnificant results. As shown in Table 8. approximately one third of drivers falil ilto eachi of
three distinct groups. ihe score of those sNho had previous driving experience is 65.6. w%hile
those vdio were conductors or mechanics. etc. is the lowest at 58.3. Those who have become
d rivers troim  completelb differenit former employment (SUCil as farmers. labourers. traders.
etc.) appear to fare better v" ith a score of 60.7.
Table 8: Drixer Score with Drivers Former Emplovment
Percentage of I  Drivers
i   Drivers   i  Score
Formier driv i ng experience                                   33.9         65.6
For-mnerlv coniduictors. mechanics. other vehicle use          3 7.1         5,8.3 
Formerly completely different emplovment                       2 29.0       60.7
Total               -                                         100.0          61.5
0.     A similar comparison for conductors is shown in Figure 4. Performance does not
appear to improve %\ ith age or anv other factor.
Figure 4 - Conductors Score with Age (Years)
1201
100.
0
o              0
80          o0n0   0                0
0000 0 00 0 000  0                 0
0 cO  0o0n0o 0   0 00                        0
0 0 0000000000ccO   0 o
50.                ooo 00  oono
a~~~~~~   
40
c 
o> '              .       o                    .
' 10       20'        30        40   .                60        70
AGE
-,8-



CONCLUSIONS & RECOMMENDATIONS
I1.    [he l;bill)owinu conclusionis can be made from ithe approximately one-hialf of all
pri\ ate bus drivers and conductors wdho lhave followed the NTC course.
Drixers:   .  There was no observable improvement in driving standard by those xxho liad
followed the NTC course.
O verall driving standards remain poor and show a need for urgent attention.
* Drivingz standards appear to improve with age of drivers.
-  Driving standards are higher for those who have had previous driving
experience. but are lower for those who were emploved as conductors and
mechanics prior to becoming private bus drivers.
The average age of private bus drivers is 35 years. Few are over 40 years.
The average turnover of drivers between routes/buses/emplovers is 3-5 vears.
Private bus drivers have reported being fined for traffic violations on average
of about once a month.
- Drivers report one accident per year.
Conductors:.  There was no observable improvement in performance bv conductors wlho
had followed the NTC course.
Overall performnance of bus conductors is poor and needs urgent attention.
T The average age of private bus conductors is 29 years. Only 18% of
conductors were above 32 years.
* The percentage of conductors who reported an increase in revenues after
taking the NTC course was not significant.
Recommendations:
*  The NTC course for drivers and conductors should be reviewed, as the
desired outcome is not being achieved.
*  The review should consider the following as possible reasons for the lack of
improvement:
- the course content. its duration, and the methods of teaching;
- the operating environment. which is so poor that individual drivers and
-conductors, though well-trained in correct practises. acLapt to the lower
industry stand4rds to survive in the competitive scene; and
A the ineffectiveness of law enforcement for drivers and conductors. For
example. a driver who is detected and fined on average once a month
pays about Rs 150-200. In comparison, the financial gain from breaking
traffic rules (e.g., by speeding or lingering at a bus halt) over one month
would be perceived as much higher and hence a risk worth taking.
-39-



Appendix - 3
Institutional Stren2thenin2 of Sri Lanka Railwavs
B3acukroulld
I I    At tihe time tihis componient of the CUTP was drawn Up. the GOSL liad proposed to
coin' ert thie Sri Lanka Railwams Department (SLR) inlto a Sri Lanka Railwavs Authority
(SLI.A) with  greater autonilomy and authority to improve quality of service and to reduce
losses. Mlanagemenit wNould be strengthiened and ftunctions would be reoreaniised to increase
eticd:veness and etficiency. Tle AAuthority would be given powers to make rules relating to
the administration and manacement of staff. to update safety standards. to manage and
develop assets. to set tariffs at compensatory levels, and to enter in "'Public Service Obligation
Contracts' for serv ices provided below cost, etc.
I.'    It was agreed that the Institutional Strengthening of SLR" component of the CUTP
would be used to provide technical assistance for necessarv restructuring following creation
of the SLRA. includinig the followin-&':
To provide advisory services to the SLRA Board and Managing Director so that
commercialisation of railway operations can begin. including in management of
transport services. establishment of appropriate operating discipline, control and
reduction of personnel and inventory requirements, etc.
-  To train new managers in operations, finance/financial reporting, and marketing, so
resources would be allocated to lines of business with the highest returns consistent
with public service obligations.
  To assist with implementation of a computerised management information system
(MIS) that would capture operating information, compile accurate revenue records.
control inventory levels and materials costs, and support costing. This wouid include
provision of minimum necessarv data processing capacity (operating and
programming skills, data security, machine room environment and equipment, etc).
*  To assist with development of a public services obligation (PSO) contract framework
including methods to estimate costs. revenues, and reimbursement) and with conduct
ot PSO negotiations during the initial period after restructuring.
To train new managers and assist with preparation df cost estimates for all services,
including PS(J services. This would include development of a system to determine'
detailed costs, including carload costs by commodity and movement, passenger
transport costs bv train, type of service, etc., and of procedures to update cost factors
w ith minimum effort through computerisation and development of a database.
Staff Appraisal Report. No. 11375-CE, The World Bank. 22 April 1993.
-40-



*To provide advisor' services to enable SLRA to achieve targets in management.
marketin,. finance. management information sxstems. and mechanical \vorkslhops. as
',et out ill its Businiess Plan.
1.3    A workshop held onl 7-9 June 1993 for launch of the CUTP identified importanit tasks
that \ouLId ha\e to be uLidertaken to successfullv implement the SLRA". These included
legal activation. selection and appointment of Board and senior officers. determination of
termis of employinenit for officers and staff. adoption of a more effectixe organisation
structire. installation  of ' MIS. negotiation  of PSO  contracts. and  preparation  and
implemenitation of a Business Plan. Attention was also given to issues relating to the hand-
ox er of responsibility from the Department to the Authority.
1.4    Followigt' from the above. it was agreed to engage a technical assistance team,
comprising  highly qualified people with relevant senior management experience at
commercially-operated railways.  The team  was to provide technical assistance il the
folloviniz, fuinctional areas:
  Executive Management: Advising the Board and Managing Director on matters
relatinlg to determining policy and setting financial goals, framing compensation.
procurement, and investment policies, preparing and implementing a Business Plan.
and establishiinLe an effective and efficient management structure.
*  Finiancial Management: Advising on the creation of an effective Finance function
(Accounting, Treasury. Costing, and Planning) and developing related skills.
*  Marketing Management: Developing marketing and pricing capabilities and co-
ordinating marketing with operations.
*  Operations Management: Co-ordinating the efforts of the operating and civil and
mechanical engineering sub-departments, establishing good operating discipline,
improving equipment utilisation and scheduling, improving safety procedures. and
reorienting managers to commercial requirements.
*  Mechanical Maintenance: Advising, on consolidation of mechanical functions and
elimination  of redundant activitiesil implementation of effective and efficient
maintena4nce policies an,d procedu'res. establishment of a reliable inventory system
and of procedures to morfitor daily work progress at all shops.
*  Management Information Svstems: Supervising development of a practical PC-based
information system and preparing a long-term pian for development and integration
of systems and databases.
Aide Memoir. Annex 10.
-41-



PSO Administration: Advisinc on appropriate and practical terms and conditions to
he inclLided in PSO contracts. oni development of costs. and on implementation of
procedLires to improve revenues and revenue collection.
t >   )During a World Bank mission in December 1993. an action plan for establishmenlt of
thle SLRA w*as drawn up in consultation with the Mfinistry of Transport & Higuhwlays, SLR.
.n1d T'SPC. Key target dates were appointment of the SLRA Board on 01.01.94. appointment
ot ftilctionial heads by 01.03.94 and manager-level staff by 01.04.94. commenicement of
Operationial restructuring by 01.05.99. preparation of PSO contracts by 01.07.99. preparation
o la Business Plan by 01.08.99. and official start oftthe SLRA bv 01.09.94.
ImpLementation and Evaluation 1994
2.1    The Sri Lanka Railways Authority Act was passed in December 1993. Following
trom the above. six consultants were engaged on the recommendation of the World Bank
Task Manager to provide technical assistance in the areas of civil engineering, mechanical
engrineering, human resources management, finance, marketing, and management information
.vstems. They were expected to work for an initial 6-8 week period, during whiich thiey vould
recommend effective reorganisation. prepare dutv lists for senior management. help select
uinctioial hieads and manager-level staff, prepare and implement short-term  actions to
improve performance in their areas of specialisation, and recommend long-term plans. It was
proposed that they would return from time to time, for 6-8 weeks each time. to monitor
performance and to assist as necessary to advance short-term and long-term plans until the
SLRA was well established. The six consultants undertook their first period of work from
\larch to Mav 1994.
2.2-    A seventh consultant, who had earlier deveioped the railway costing system under a
CIDA grant, was initially engaged for a 2-year period on the recommendation of the General
\lanager Railways to provide technical assistance in the areas of costing and pubic service
obligations. He started working in January 1994 and his contract was extended in 1996 at the
request of SLR.
2.3   'Te SLRA Board was not appointed in January 1994. as targeted. so certain tasks
assigned to the consultants could not be done; for example. assisting with the evaluation and
s,election v'i newvt functional heads and manager-level staff. The consultants did recommend
nsganisation structures and duty lists, but these borrowed from  earlier studies.  Other
prtrformanpir4as as below:
*  Civil Engineering: In addition to the above, the consultant analysed the condition of
the track and prepared a 10-vear track restoration plan, including short-term actions
for immediate improvements. maintenance standards, materials requirements to
restore and maintain the track, a mechanisation plan. and corresponding long-term
staff requiremenits. The consultant's performance was satisfactory.
-42-



.  Mechanlical Enaineering: In addition to the above. the consultant analysed the
condition of rolling' stock anid recommended short- and long-term actionis to improve
their availabilitv and reliability. proposed maintenance standards, identified necessary
in'  estment in faciiities and training. and corresponding long-term staff requiremelits.
I lis performnance w,as satisfactory.
NMlana-einent Intformation  Svstems: In additioni to the above. the consultalit
recOmminended short- and long-term actions to implement computerised MIS. He also
revie\sed the local IT industry and recommended that the Railwav's MIIS needs,
includin-g for techinical assistance, could be met from local sources. The consultant's
perfomnance was somewhiat satisfactorv.
 Human Resources: In addition to the above, the consultant analvsed the railway cadre
to define nuinbers of staff bv age and educational qualification, identified training
needs. and proposed revisions to salary scales.  His performance was somewhat
satisfactorv.
-   Finance: In addition to the above. the consultant reviewed accounting practices and
recommended some short- and long-term changes. He also recommended that the
SLRA should engage a local accounting firm to develop entirely new accounting
procedures and to establish an opening balance sheet. The consultant's perfornance
was unsatisfactorv.
*  Mlarketing: The consultant did not produce the required short- and long-term
marketing strategy and 5-vear plan. His performance was highly unsatisfactorv.
e PSO Administration: In addition to the above, the consultant assisted the Railway to
update railway costs. analvse revenue statistics, determine cost recoverv of all
services and required PSO payments. prepare submissions for fare and tariff
increases, change operations to increase rolling stock utilisation and revenue. etc. His
performance was satisfactorv.
2.4    Due to delays in implementation of the Sri Lanka Railways Authority Act and
corresponding delays in appointment of a Board. in reorguanisation, and in selection of senior-
lexel staff, little progress was made in restructuring. Due to lack of commitment by railway
imanLagemiient. even short-term actions were not implernetited. Five PCs were purchased with
railyav  fiunds. but were used onliv for w6id-processing aUId for simple, spreadsheets.
Proposals were called from three local accounting firms to riodert]ise the. railwav accounts,
and two responses were received, but were not followed up. The six consultants who left
after their initial 6-8 week assignment were not invited to return. The PSO Administration
CoInsultant developed procedures to estimate costs and revenues by service. which were used
to estimate cost recovery. as showil in the table on the following page.
-43-



linpieilietitation and Evaluation 1995 and 1996
3.1    In M,arch 1995. thie Minister of Transport. Enironment, and WVomen's Affairs
infor-med a World Banki mission that the SLRA Act wnould sooti be implemented and that a
Board would be appointed by mid-April;. In discussions wvith the Minister. SLR. and TSPC.
the mission agreed to sponsor a symposiumiNvorkshop to introduce the SLRA Board and
senior railway personnel to "World's Best Practice" in railwYay managemnent and operations.
It x%as proposed that the k orkshop would be used to develop a set of action plans tor inclusion
in thle rail\ ay business plan. The mission also agreed tilat CUTP funds could be used to
enuagze Onl conitract local experts in finance, planningimarketing. propertv management, and
maniacement information svstems to support the railwav restructuring.
Cost Recoverv bv Service (1994)
Linie & Service                     Revenue        Variable Costs    Cost Recovery
(Rsm)            (Rs m)
Suburban|I
- Nlain Line                         121.3             2253              48%
- Coast Line                  i       54.4              146              37%
- PLlttalam Line                      29.1              107               I 27%
-Kelani Valley Line.-      . -         8.7    '                     .-
- Sub-total Suburban                 213.5              554              39%
Long Distance Passenger                                           I
- Main Line                          123.6              236              52%
---------..._______ _-._
- Coast Line                         106.7              161              66%
- Northern Line                       89.0              170       L       2%
a - Batticaloa/Trinco Lines           21.2               69              31%
' - Sub-total Long Distance          340.5              636              54%
Regional Passenger
- Alutigama/Gale/Matara                7.2               39              18%
- Cilaaw/Puttalam    l                 0.7               17.  _           4%
-Upcountrv                            11.5               65              18%
- Maho/Kurunegala    -                 1.4               1 I             13%
- Others                               0.6               II               5%
- Sub-total Regional                  21.4      V       143              15%
jI Total Passenger Services            575.4           '1,333              43%
Notes: - Variable costs exclude fixed costs and.capital replacement
- Cost recovery for'goods varie's from 30% for c'ement to 85% for oil.
A \ide Memoir. Mlarch 199x.
-44-



3.2'    Althougil the SLRA Board was not appointed as proposed. the Railwav Workshop
%was held from 31.07.95 to 04.08.95. The agenda was revised slightly - to devise feasible
wavs ot solvinu the immediate problems facing SLR. vE ithin the confines of the departmental
structure. and to augree on1 actions to improve train ser ices and restore reliability. CUTP
finids were used to brMin three consultants-in civil enginieerinz, mechanical engineering. and
operations-to lead the workshop and to assist with preparation of the action plans. The
workshlop resulted in a plan of actions to improve railway pertormance in operational.
mechanical. and infrastructure areas. It was agreed that implementation of the action plan
Vwuld be moniitored by a coin mittee reporting to the Minister.
3. 3    Somile progress w\as made initially in implementing the action plans. A planning
Ulnit-witil senior officers from operations. civil engineering. and mechanical engineering-
\was set up in the General Manager's Office to monitor the progress of teams appointed to
implemenit the action plans. Monthly reports were submitted to a committee reporting to the
Nlinister.  Some plans were implemented quickly; for example. new track maintenance
standards. changing specification for rails from 45' to 60'. organising and cleaning running
shieds. Mlany plans were drawn up-some in great detail-but not implemented. A few were
not drawin up at all. Within six months, and with a change of Minister and General Manager,
wsork oni the actions had mostly stopped. Failure can be attributed to a lack of interest and
motivation in the current environment to take risks and to implement change.
3.4    Aside from the above. technical assistance provided under the CUTP was limited to
the services olv the PSO Administration Consultant, X ho was still under contract. This
included helping railwav officers in areas related to costing (e.g., training costing staff.
updating costs), marketing (e.g.. preparing a marketing plan. proposing fare revisions,
expanding advertising on railway property, preparing a plan to modemise ticketing), and
planning (e.g.. preparing feasibility studies to procure 15 power sets and 10 locomotives).
The consultanit also undertook a survey of railway passengers and prepared a report on
)peration of Non-Econonmic Routes by Rail for presentation at the Transport Sector Strategy
seminar in July 1996.
Midtermn Review
4.1    During the midterm review in March 1997, the scope of the railway component of the
CUTP was substantially revised, as the SLRA Act had still not been implemented, as no
restructuring had occurred. and as restructuring was considered unlikely without creation of
the Authority. It was agreed, therefore, to create a Strategic Business Unit (SBU) within the
Railway Department with the following responsibility:
*  To prepare a Business Plan for rail freight.
*  To develop an Open Access Policy Framework under which the private sector would
be allowed to provide and operate freiaht trains on SLR track. This would include
-45-



investi-atingy rielated chanigyes to the Railwavs Ordiianice and Departmental Rules.
estihating costs. defining a pricing policy. etc.
*   T'o de% elop a Real Estate Plan to manage and commercialise railway property.
*  T'o outline a MIS and Accounlting plan that *.ould allow the SLR to funictioni in a
c 0m,merc ial environment and to identifX' related inv-estments and training.
*   Lo develop a training program for top. middle. and low level managers to introduce
cominercial orientation.
*  -u den elop inputs necessary for a PSO agreement.
linplementationi and Evaluation 1997-1999
I    Rail\\ay restructuring has made greater progress since the mid-tenn review than
before. This is largely due to a greater recognition by GOSL and SLR that change is
necessary to improve the quality of rail service and financial performance and to a greater
commitmelit to change. The increasing financial burden of railway losses is also driving the
Mdinistry of Finanice and National Planning and the Treasury to demand change and
improvement.  The change in CUTP's focus to improvements that are not dependent on
creation of an Authority has also increased its effectiveness.
o .2    Proposals made during the midterm review-to develop the 'open access" concept
and to establish an SBU-were approved bv the GOSL in October 1997. Memlbers of the
SBU were appointed between November 1997 and January 1998. The World Bank mission
had proposed that the SBU should include people from the private and public sectors, with a
v arietv of qualifications, who would work exclusively on the development of commercial rail
operations. Howev-er, the members were drawn solely from the public sector (three from SLR
and three from other Departments) and were assigned to work only part time. The PSO
Administrationl Consultant was appointed as an advisor to the SBU to provide technical
ass istance.
5 .3    Due to delavs in implementing, the SBU and the part-time effort, only a fraction of the
,proposed activities were undertaken. but the SBU did complete a draft Open Access Policy
durin- 1998. T-his was distribiited to stakeholders-'railway inanagement. advisory councils,
unions. other Miniistries. and current and prospective frei6it,shippers-in NMarch/April,1999
to obtain their observations. Some comments have been received. both positive and negati've,
plus two expressions of interest to operate trains. It is contemplated that after considering
sucih observations. the SBU will prepare a final policv document that will be submitted to the
(iOSL for approval.
-46-



.4      DI)rim-n  B998. S%lR and the SBU also negotiated an aiccess a.rcenment %xith Puttalam
C cil n I   om paw\ I imiiited I PCCL I. tn'di(er thie agreement. PCC l %% il ppoI Cie. Imintain,I aLLti
ton1Crarts o'A n<\l limIlestonIe tra;ins tincl uding train crCi-'    e et%% eIee  itS cemnIIt pianlt and itS
tIrIr'A .   dl itancc of 39 kiioimietrcs.  F Urtherniore. it \'. illn'est inl and maintain about 20
h ;net:IlcJ  iI' raiika'. trackS  het'.eefn  Noorna,lgar aind  Perina'.aLna'illit. '.. ichi are used
;\c    .clWn\ I'.  \ Its liniestone trains  *lR '.ill provide acelCss to its tracL and conitro trains for
boIxt n Riionietres bet'.een Pala%i and Noorna-ar. 'i.ich are also used r1 pa~,sertuer trains.
h-lle aUgreeent   ib PCCL. came into effect in NiaN 1 009 and PC'C'I commenced operating
'A iti   itS  -,%%II C I'IIs 111   \ LtISt  '   (9Q.
> a     In No'emnber 199'). the National Development CouLncil iN DC) prepared a report.
. iiSill(/ Sl/rltlL1"ied  on Riilwavs. that advocated. amolln  other things. a restructuringu of
"LR1 into  a  m1ore  alton1omLIous andi commercially  oriented  organisation. althoughi an
Moranisation that retains its social obligations.  The NDC  Report affirmed a numliber of
rcco,rim11endations that ha\e been made uLider tihe CLTP and in earlier stidies. inciliding
managemient restructurinmg commercial orientation. increased accountability ftor performance.
de\elopnient ot' a strategic planning capability. revenue enilanicemenit and improved cost
reco'. r'. deNelopmiienit of freight di luding open access. and so on.  Mlany recommended
0ltort-WeI-1  impro' enleent measures '.ere similar to actions proposed M  con1sultants ulider thie
-arlr  sac,-es of tie CL TP.
.6     FolIo'v'irtg oni the NDC  Report. the Minismr  of Transport &  Highl%a\s appointed a
collimiiittee to look into railv ay management restructuring. In its report. Afctntageewen  Re-
wruLctu!ring of Ihe Sri Lanktz Riilwavs by wiay of Esiciblishing ai Raiilwcn  .\ltAnigetnen
(,'ot'il. tile commilittee recommended reorizanisation of SLR into tife funictionial groups.
establislhnent of explicit performance targyets. and appointimienit of a management council to
monitor perlformance.  A Cabinet Paper is now  being submitted to get--approval for the
proposed changes.
Proltoress hias also beeni made in other areas identified for restmrcturing in the originial
(J _'TP   omiponent.   With  technical assistance  provided  by  the  PSO  Addministration
('Consultant. a Data Processing (DP) Utnit was formed in 1998 comprising a Data Processing
Manager. DeputN. System Analysts. and Data Entry Operators. DP staff hias received basic
tainainu and %%ill receive ftirther traininga in NIS-Access and Visual Basic programming from
dhe National Institute of Business Management. A PC-bIased comptiter netN.ork \%as installed
and pa'. til soft\'are %%as purchiased. Pa%roil is being implemented oradually. but more than
' n(lt) raii\'\  nmiplooxecs are no'. paid oni tihe s%stem. Othier PCs have been -Mitained for
,peration-, to monlitoir train dela%s,. i'or AccouLntilng  to prepare monthl\y repor-ts). fbr Signaks
tto anal\'.e lfailuresi. and for Mlo6ive Power (to analyse f6el  consumption and. ftilures). A
tim'e-\ ear computerisation plan has been developed. for which ftinds hiave been allocated.
outlilne specitications  lame been  prepared tor an integrated  NTIS including  Opemtions
Inl-Ormation (to monitor train operations. to assist in preparine  schedules. to Igi\e \.a agon and
rIighlt intorillatiorn. to roster moti'e po\.er and crevs). Rolling- Stock Asset ManagTement.
-4-



1IlraNstrLucture .\ssct Mianauernent. and vlaterials Nlanaeiement and I'rocurelient. Tenders are
beilu  alled  t;Or a Hualilan Resources package to inteurate ~\i h PaNroll itinplementation
Startilwi M  1tic )   for \latCrials Mianageellet anid PrOCurelnemlt iin mlenlentatioit Startinu in
I K)Q  a O I I i 6and    ( )IJleraltion11s Inlormllatton ( impieilellntatioln stanting it I)I)t). 
 S     ~soinc actions hae also mIetn takeni to begin commli-ercial dev elopment o't rali1ia\ real
csI;.tc.  in  0998. ` LR  %cean \orkin- with the l'Vbani De\elopment A-utloLi i\ to idenrtitx
inlISed nt \                      funable raiia.l ' ands fOr de elOpmenlt Se ell locarions-\ liriuama. Ve  lanuoda.
lamipaha.  Ranim.   k rloratuw a. Panadura. and  Kalutara  SOutIl-k\ere  idetititied  fo r
dJ\elopitictit  icliidiflnU  m1oderllisatioll of railka%  facilities  and  ilteer-atiol f not midal
inrtcrcha,nc  and conime-cial facilities.   Developmentl has starteed  at Ve'.angoda.   In
riecogenition  tihat thie Departmental structure  is not conducive to comillercial propertv
det elopmlenit the \linister of Transport &  Hilehwa\s has submittedl a Cabinet Paper
reqLLUestino applo'. al to establishi a Railway Propert\ De'elopment Compaly, as a subsidiarv
of Sl-R. to manage and develop railw;av propertY on behalf ot' SLR.
>)      Beteen February and June 1999. CUTP ftunds were used to engage the services of
lOCal experts in accounting. property management. and stores management. Flie consuitants
%%ere required to recommend and implement improvements tihat could be made quickly. Due
to 10on2 delay in selection and appointmenet. tlleir progress was hllited: howe'er. some
p)ositi'.  rCsults %ere achieNed. The Accounltilng Consultant. for example. organiised some
lcstructriit0" or aCCoLIIting tLictiolns. assisted with decentralisationl of' ork. Hipro%ed casil
collectiont and pa\ imlenlt (bv negotiating withi banks to collect and immediately deposit receipts
f'rom  main stations anld to take over salary payments at main pay points). organised a
campaign to get employees to open bank accounts for direct salarv deposit. and so on. The
Property Mlanagemnent Consultait. for example. specified and assisted with the development
of a comilputer application to manlage leases. PCs are now being purchiased. after Mhich the
nei% softvvare \%ill be used by the Lands Brancih to manaae leases and enstire that rent is
collected. The Stores Conisultant. for example. introduced changes in stores and procurement
pr-occdures that reduce lead-time and assisted with specificationl of a computerised mnaterials
in.ai agenient application. In recognition that greater attentioll is needed to sol'.e stores and
procurement problems. the Railwxay has requested pernission from  the GOSL to engage a
local cOInsultanit on a 2-3 year contract. usin_z rail%wav fuLids. to continue restrUcturiig.
5 I (    Other examnples o' increased  commercial orientationi include the  award  of a
concessioni to place advertisements on railway property (whnich resulted in a 6-foid increase in
ncoiie). calline  oi'tenders far a concession to transport,parcels In the luggage compartments
11 interci   eXp)s' trains. necotiations  -ith .Sri Lankia Telecom. which are nio\w  ii final
tages. to install te4ecomn piant along railwllt  reseryations in exchange for annual access
pa'. men1ts. caililin  ofi tetiers to sub-contract cleanin- W'Vk at stations and offices. proposals to
establishi a strategic plannillng ulnit within SLR. negotiations with SLIDA to develop a training
pr(orarn t'or senior and middle-level managers. and so on.



5.1 i   Teciihnical assistance provided under the CUTP included the flloli ng:
*  Services of the PSO Administration Consultanit durin-g 1997 anid six monthis of 1'998.
ITlhe PS() consultant entered Il a separate arrangyement N%ith Sri Lanka Railwa%s
during the balance six monthis of 1998 and for 1999.1
*  Serv ices of an Open Access specialist in November 1998. to hielp complete the tirst
draft ot tihe Open Access Policv and to assist in closing negotiations with PCCL.
  Services of three local experts-in accounting, in property management, and in
procurenieiitimaterials  management-from   February  to June  1999  to  iitiate
improvements under the departmental structure.
*  Reimbursement of costs for the General Manager Railways to attend a seminar on
railwav privatisation in the UK, for the General Manager and two SBU members to
attend a railway management seminar in Singapore. for the tilree railway SBU
members and twvo other railway officers to attend a management seminar in Sri
Lankla. and for tN\o SBU members to travel to Australia to studv access arrangement
in that country.
5.12   There were savings in technical assistance funds for the following reasons:
* Trainina on commercialisation by international experts was restricted to technical
assistance on open access policy by one person.
*   Proposed two-week study tours for two teams of six persons were restricted to
seminars in the UK and Singapore by two persons and three persons, respectively. to
a local 5-day seminar by five persons, and to a 4-day study tour to Australia by two
persons.
*  Administrative costs of the SBU were reduced as private sector experts were not
r ecruited and as SLR met the costs of its members.
*   Equipment for MIS was paid out of SLR funds.
*   Feasjibilitv stidies and engineering costs estimates were not undertaken.  GOSL
approval for a feasibility study of electrification was received too close to the end of
the credit period and so was not accepted.
-49-






9
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CR. 2495-CE)
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR
ANNEX D






07/12 '99 15:16  FAX 94 1 440357          WG B ANX LANYA                              02
-7 04L
MINISTRY OF  APORT & HI1GW-&VS   oN. Oi t'. p.. Wiv.vdane "i.vwa-ta. Coam,bo t .
gd                                .       eurf0ps  falz3LeFa   6iG4547
887212                                      Gia2 14Xs  r sn 3a ; s   t. as. 2
16897511  Q           87212                                                      1 S
6sBneS     a     #;89568  87284   N sa c .w                            o & O9. 
3L2DU @ .... 2    ...........
MV NQo.'(r Qo.
Dr. Suasit Pi2.qapitiya
Senijor 
world Bank Office
colwyb.
CCEMrts o-r -zCR W  Version
I refer to  Yuor istez- dEted C2._99  on  -    ve
subject.
Considerable  ee:n        exsts      il-  tw e  dzrt  CIs
preprd separately            adi &   tue Worla  3    in to
on n8orz,rer P       eThis is not- etiy  
HOver  th3  3World 3ank Vsrsion app             sess perved
bot~   w8iise  t3Sa  iLk 2i5 evi'n -in fet ject t.ia t
def:,ciences in t>  ~z t   sig   zdi~  gisv  be   i e ntifi; .
guite ecxteiy  eILS   i,n tX  s&~a  versi3n; cont-riute
sideficlentiy to t-e   \      e3=    (Wrich
., g   4   iLt i eat ez.e t'at b   &  ;,, tee
Minister ow   sport =i :9S7 f=,te-r dy             0 dacision -
ThIS statee nt Is        o     The rcj  ir,ine ,anf5 -at
1 convrse tCOR p .tin&; ~Sz p:5et o urer &O6 Se
5Gvinn of tha %a-Istz fo_oLrq~ tnis c,na rjc
perfoE lanc,s eLS:iy 7         '&~    c0mP=ee wxnes, eolerate  but 
elrtsty  ,, rooG .     B  $.   e  Campietion Daze  Irat ws
infoz3md to te        xinist~cy by cot try Diza t=r of tbe world
Bak



07/12 '99 15:16  FAX 94 1 440357         WORLD BANK LANKA                       1( 03
7 o/3
- 2     -
From  a  borzwr  perspective,  functions  of appraisal,
supezvision   and disburserent: by the respective World Banlc
Divisions culd have been better interfaced and coordinated with
the h=rwer, when crpazed w:ith tihe experierce vis a vis other
mrajor donor agEKias dealing with the line Ministry.  Here
again, considerable  mrov4ent -as  observed  in  apprai;al/
suPervi-Son in the latter stages of the project, although the
Lisbursrennt function xnaaned xigd and difficult to deal with
utxen mior probleas arose.
gart fn tY'0 above comrents, I and my collegues wish to
thank yOu for aiL?the assistance and support provided in the
:Unplementation of the abave project.  I also wish to take this
opportunity to wish you all success in your rvw assigrte-nt in
thl World Bank.
yours sincerely,
?-;
G. Hawagana
Secretary
Miristry of Transport & Highways.



C)
0
1 1,08                                                           0
Cv>O
m
3c::
0                                                    mm                                                           Ozr-
0;
0
M                                                                                        > 0
m- 3: 3:
0C ;d    0                                                                 z;v
(C)                    Z rn           3'00
zz                                                         C/)
cl                                                                   0>
> 3:          zz
;a tn         -4 -.4       - - - - - - - - -                               0
z                   CA (A                              th                          ;o
;o >
m                                                              0 cp
--4                                                         Z, >
m                                                           mm
z
3:0
JE Iv
va Ma
S Rocid)
'(B a s e I )iR
M,
4o
-P
7
Ul
C)
0
0






jv ceor i.   ,SRI LANKA                                                                    1
COLOMBO URBAN
//  |                     I                                            >  .', .;'  TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                           7
i'//  i  I                 "\x- t>         ',t~'lp'PROJECT AREA
;'   y   {'   /   t   /                   QK.v" ,,',_'s,*  'j, f.   n FORT INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS         /
PROJECT ROADS                                                        Sf1
/ne   MARADANA JUNCTION IMPROVEMENTS                        .AW'A
\___ \~#> /t j I I g i\. t- > ,,' \'s'/'<)   I P                                                                 7 F ORT STATION / PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE                    CoETINRD
0 S   h        /    S >                      - : P E T T ~~~ ~~~                                          ~~~~~~A HI  -   OD                                      *lorabo
U                        kETTAN                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
RAILROADS                                         Indi   t         
Jg  .  2       '         >...t-- AREA OF PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS        0   tc ti
Urc7                                                   ' ''5                                                   AND FACILITIES
/i h u s   t - . -   ~DELETED
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY 
f>                                                   . F                                                                                                              n R  T  0 .teu '  ond ,t for i'  otrl use oE /'  r
F~i            u                  ,        .            .            j               ,                                                              S- * .. . . ~ .  T  - -  ro       0  .  - . - bu bheec repored by Tghe W-rd Buk's syfor - y
iit-J .    .        ,                          C                                             B-k Group. The d-    -,t    -d ond the houndor ssh-wn on- stin
\        t; S-                 t        to t   l              a  - . I  ,0                                                * o;ot                          anto e  hb osteaadusltous of any territory or any ondorseenot ar orrepsusuce of
IL                                                                                                                                                          2                                    ,         .
o                                                                                                                                                                               s1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Os
Nsf  II                   0R  w IoWord~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                    .i,- 6p,t. T.W,t  - G.p -..d,-
nf                                                                'Nu                      22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<.  "\~f~b,. ~w   - fi- 
Rood  -                     OO0Ai0~                   0005                      St Sebosion TECHNICAL\,                                   5/5  MARAD--
rEDESTMAN ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ 5/JUCTO
BRIDGE---~o~                                                                                                       H~-
Mawat a~~~~~~~
B0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
'N-'                       '-7       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~                    JUNCIIONC ~~~~~~~UNCIO
00
0 WO 20030040050              i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  A  
_____________________         N.''. ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~JNCIO
5.5                             5/                                 gli    to~~~~~I
0o                           I\r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  /11                                                                                                               0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_



