Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
2C .'s                   c1        c/
Report No. 11375-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LAK
COLONBO URB A TRASPORT PROJECT
APRIL 22, 1993
:~~~~~~
I'.;1 t.   :  I     I                 . _
Energy and Infrastruc-ture Operatios Division
Contry Department III
South Asia Region
lhis doeument has a restdcted distibution and may be used by redpient ody in the perlonomace of
their oflicw duties its content may not otherwis be diselosed wihout Wodd Bsnk smOrizetlL



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1992)
Currency Unit   -   Sri Lankan Rupee SR.
1 Rupee (SRM)       i 1OO cents - US$0.023
SRs 44.0            US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 m  -         meter (1 meter - 3.28 feet)
1 mt           metric tons (1,000 kg   2,205 lb.)
1 km           kilometer (1 kilometer   0.62 miles)
km2             square kilometer (1 km2 - 0.368
square miles)
1 kg           kilogram (2.2 lb.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA  -          Central Environmental Authority
CIDA -          Canadian Inteenational Development Agency
Cmc  -          Colombo Municipal Council
ERR  -          Economic Rate of Return
GCMA -          Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area
GOSL -          Government of Ssi Lanka
NTC  -          National Transport Commission
PC   -          Provincial Councils
PMC  -          Project Monitorins Committee
PSO  -          Public Service Obligation
RDA  -          Road Development Authority
RUCS -          Road User Charges Study
SLR  -          Sri Lanka Railways
SLRA -          Sri Lanka Railway Authority
TP   -          Traffic Police
TSM  -          Traffic System Management
TSPC -          Transport Studies and Planning Center
UDA  -          Urban Development Authority
ULA  -          Urban Local Authorities
UNDP -          United Nations Development Program
VOC  -          Vehicle Operating Costs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMFCIUL USE ONLY
ml
S1SF AZnaL RPOR
Table of Contents
Pase No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SIMJARY    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
1.   URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . .
The Country Setting; .a. . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  .  .  .  .  . .
Greater Colombo Metropolitsn Area . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Colombo Transport System  . . . .   . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . .  2
Local Government Pramevork  . *. .. . .   . . .. . ...... .. .  4
Institutional and Financial Aspects of Urban Transport  . . . . . . . 6
Environmental Aspects ..     ........................   8
Previous Bank/IDA Operations   . .*aaaaeaaa.  a.aaa.a. . 8
Country Assistance Strateg;y  . .    . a *a * * ...  *  * a *  .*. .  9
ItI.  THE PROJECT . . . . a  . . . . a  . a  . . . . a *. . a .* .  . . . .  * 9
Project Origins . a a a . . .   . . * .    . a * *. . .   a  .     . * a a  . 9
Objectives  .* * * * a.  a   .a     *   * a  .  *  o .a...           9
Project Description . . * a a a  * a a  . a a aa a aaa              10
A. Immediate Action Plan ......................   10
5. Long-Tenm Urban Transport Planning. . . . . . . . . . . a .  11
C. Institutional Strengthening. . a . . . . . . .  a . .  a . .  1.l
Project Cost and Financing. . . . . . . . . a  a 9 .  a. . .  a .  a . .     13
Implementation, Disbursements and Audits  . a.. . . . . a  . . . . . . 14
procurement  a  *  a  a  a  *  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  *  a  *a      a a  a  a  a  a  a  16
II..  PROJECT JUSTIFICATIONAND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Main Benefits * . . a a a . . . . . .   .              .   .  .** * a. . a    a * . 18
Traffic Analysis  . a . . . . .a a.a.    19
Economic Evaluation Methodology *   . . * * a a . . a . . . . . .  ..19
Economic Rates of Return  . . . . . . . . a a . a a a . . a . 9 . . . 21
Unquantified Benefits .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a a  . a a a  22
Risks  .  a  a  .  a  .  a .  a .  .  .  . a  .  .  . . a  a  a  .  .  . a   . a  a  a  .  .  23
IV.  AGREEMENTS RSAp      AND RECO14MKNDATION 9  9    9 4    a a 9 a a a  23
This report was prepared based on the findin8, of an appraisal mission
vhich visited Sri Lanka in December 1992. The mission members included Mrs. I.
Bradfield (Senior Economist and Task Manager, SAS31) and Mr. E. Wijetilleke
(Senior Chemical Engineer, IENOG) from the International Development Association,
and Mr. J. Cracknell (Traffic Management Specialist, Consultant). The peer
review team comrrised Messrs. R. Scurfield (Principal Transport Specialist,
TWUTD); L. Thompson (Railways Advisor, TWUTD) and J. Shah (Environmental
Specialist, ASTER); and Me. 0. WKlantzopoulos (Senior Economist, SA3CI). The
report has been endorsed by Messrs. Paul Iseunan, Director, Country Department
II, South Asia Region and Per %jung, Chief, EnerSy & I&O-astructur, Operations
Division.
This document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World ank authorition.



I. Travel Characteristics In Colombo. *.. ... ........ .25
2. Institutiorul Framework for the Urban Sector. . . . . . . . . . 39
3. Sri Lanka Railway Reotructuring Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
4. Colombo Urban Transport Study Tero of Reference. . . . * . . . *57
S.  Technical Assistance to Rational Transport Cnmmissto  and
Prowvicial Council.s  Terms of Reforence. . . . . . . . . .  62
6. Technical Assistance for Sri Lanka Rdilvays eatructuritgt
Terms of Reference                  ....   . . ..................... o o.......  64
7. Potential Private Sector Involvement
in the Sri Lana Railways: Terms of Reference  . . . . . . .. 73
8. Air Pollution Management Study: Term  of Reference. . . . . . . 77
9. Ex-post Evaluatiou and Mon±toring of Project Progrt-o. . . . . . 80
10. Disbursement and Implementation Scheduleo. . . . . . . .  . . . 86
11. Supervision Plan. . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .88
12. Economic Evaluation of the Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91
13.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Filo. . . . . 107
IA=l:  Colombo Transport Network - IERD No. 24659
Colombo Project Area     - IBRD No. 24660



COwnBO URIAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect 8 NaFY
Boogsrus          Democratic Soclalst Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
AJfJlma'&d        Ministry of Transport and Eighways (MTM)
Colombo Municipal Council (CMC)
Central Environmental Authority (CRI)
Sri Lanka Railways (SLR)
Amoitnt           SDR 14.4 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
lsongs            Standard, vith 40 years maturity
Onlendins Terma2  From GOSL to the beneficiaries on a grant basis
Pro1ect
Descrzin±ons      The project Includes:   (a) Immediate Actic   la:   (i)
Transport System Management (TSM) Program for o. c, Pettah and
Olcott Mavatha. Implementation of short-term, cost-effective
measures of the TS1 program comprising junction Improvements
(signals, channelixation), bus passenger facilities (terminal
improvements), bus lanes, sidewalks, footbridges and
rehabilitation of road pavement in the Pettab and adjoining
Olcott Mavatha areas; (ii) Maradana Junction Improvements.
Construction of a gyratory consisting of an additional bridge,
parallel to the existing one, improvements of the approach
roads and the provisioa of Inter-linked signalization; and
(iII) Consultancy Services for Implementation Support; (b)
Lona-Term Urban Transpgrt Plannia:s Consultants to: (i) carry
out the Colombo Urban Transport Study; and (li) provide on-
the-job training of the counterpart staff involved in urban
transport planning; (c) Institutional Stren=thenin:s  (l?
Tranoport Regulation.   Consultancy services to train the
National Transport Commission (NTC) and Provincial Council
(PC) staff to Increase their managerial capabilities to
monitor the safety and provision of bus services; (ii)
Restructuring of the SLR. Teocnical assistance to initiate
the process of reform and evaluate different options for SLR
privatization; and (iII) Air Quality Monitoring and Management
Study. Technical assistance to prepare a comprehensive air
quality control program and train the CIA staff.



- it -
Beefites          The quantified benefits of the project would accrue in terms
of a reduction in vehicle operating costs and passenger travel
times.   The unquantified benefits would include reduced
traffic safety hazards, easier access to shopping and
commercial establishment and a reduced level of air
pollution. The overall economic rate of return (ERR) on the
physical investments (TSM Program and Marsdana Junction
Improvements) Is estimated at 26Z.
Risks:            The main risks of the project ares (a) expected capacity
increases and decreased level of congestion may turn out to be
smaller than anticipated; (b) a delay in completion of the
project may increase investment costs (c) ineffective
scheduling of works may lead to excessive congestion during
construction; and (d) the institutional strengthening and
reform objectives to be accomplished with technical assistance
provided under the project may fall short of expectations.
The risks of delay and Ineffective scheduling are mitigated by
the fact that detailed engineering and designs have been
completed for all project components, the bidding documents
have been prepared, the main investment components arc
relatively easy to Implement as they are based on well-
established technologies, and the CMC has already completed
similar works successfully on Gall. Road and the Prince of
Wales Road.   Possible cost overruns, reduced benefits and
increased congestion during construction have been quantified
in the economic and sensitivity analyses which still yielded
satisfactory RERR of 172 or higher. Moreover, a continuing
intensive policy dialogue with GOSL, phssed reform measures,
training programs formulated in accordance with absorptive
capacity of the executing agencies, close supervision of civil
works, studies and other technical assistance support provided
under the project to implementing agencies would also
substantially reduce the possible risks mentioned above.



- iii -
Estimted Prolegt Coates
Local     Foreiga      Total
---------- US$ mil;lon -------
A. TM and InfrastrucMure
Pettah, Olcott & Fort               3.31       2.10         5.44
Marsdana Junction                   0.97       3.13         4.10
Implementation Support              02         2.89       >L91
subtotal                        4.30        8.12       12.42
B.  Urban Transaort -Lan                0.48        1.12        1.60
C. Institutional Str.natheaing
NTC                                 0.45        0.55        1.00
Railway Restructuring               0.40        2.31        2.71
Alr Quality ianagement              LA          O1.
Subtotal                        0-94        U.3         uJL
Total Base Costs                           12.1
Physical Contingencies                  0.50        0.78        1.28
Price Contingencies                     1.53        0.91        2.44
Project Preparation Facility             A; '9      1.00        1.20
Total Project Costs                                    23.25
(excluding taxes)
Tazes and Duties                2.03        0.0         2.03
Total Project Costs             9a .9U 8La
(including taxes)
Local      1oreign
GUM=c          Currency   Total   2
---------(US$ million)------
IDA                                 5.5        14.5       20.0       79.0
DIDP                                0.2         0.3         0.5       2.0
CA&ADA                              0.0         0.5         0.5       2.0
GOSL                                4-3                    -AA       U...L-J.
TOTAL                              10.0         15.        25.3
Estimated IDA DiabugseaegtMs (US$ willion)
IDA Fiscal Year                   MA                 PY96       P7        FY
Annual            0.0       2.4       4.0       6.6        5.9       1.1
Cumulative        0.0       2.4       6.4      13.0       18.9      20.0
Economic Rate of keturns 261
VMwss  Colombo Transport Network       - IB8D No. 24659
Colombo Transport Project Area - IBRD No. 24660



,SRI IM
COL0ABO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
APPJtAMIAL RZMT
I. URA TRNPR SE*CT nrafiOR
The Country Settiur
1.1       Sri Laka ha a richly varied natural resource base, a tradition of
relatively well-diatributed incomes, a bautc network of economic infrastructure,
easy access to the world's major shipping routes and one of the best educated
populations is the developing world vith adult literecy approaching 90S   Sri
lanka, with the estimated total population of 18 million in 1992, is also blessed
by a low population growth rate of 1.21 p.c. since 1980. With these advantages,
Sri Lanka hae the potential to become one of the top economic performets in Asia.
However, since Independence in 1948, it has been plagued by ethnic conflict as
well ae by inconsistent economic policies which have impeded its performance to
tho point wher the estimated per capita income was only US$450 In 1992. The
rapid ewpansion following the adoption of the economic liberalization p. -am in
1977 was not sustained due to the domination of the economy by a large and
inefficient public sector, an increase in unproductiv, public investment and
consumption spending, coupled with low national savings, deteriorated terms of
trade, severe balance of payments and budgetary deficits, and the crowding out
of private Investments.
1.2       In response to this critical situation, the Goveroment of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) has adopted an adjustment program following the turbulent 1988-89 per tod.
Many of the reforms were translated Into specific action program under an
Econoeic Restructuring Credit (Cr. 2128-CE)J/, followed by the Public
Maufacturing 3aterprises Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2185-CB)II, designed to support
the first phae of the Government's disengagement from commercial and directly
productive activities and to improve the economic and administrative environment
for private sector dovelopmeat. Robust economic growth ensued as macroeconomic
management and performance improved, and GDP growth accelerated from 2.31 in 1989
to 6.2S In 1990, with almost 51 growth in 1991 and over 41 estimated for 1992.
Thia relatively rapid growth wa largely supported by the urban based industrial
and service activities (tourism-related) generated in and around Grester Colombo.
Greater Colombo Matrcnolitan Area
1.3       The Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area (GCMA) comprisee the Colombo
Muncipal Council (CMC) and eight other contiguous municipalities in the Colombo,
Ralutars and GOmpaha Districts of the Western Province. Wi i over four million
inhabit.nts, it coutains almost 261 of Sri Lankla's total population. According
Il        Approved by IDA's Board in May 1990.
V/        Approved by the Board in November 1990.



-2-
to the narrow definition of furbsae"V by the Ceosus Departamet, about 23X of the
national population live in "urban" areas and the remainder in "rural" areas.
Bowever, the official statistics, based oan a4mn4strative classifications, do not
take into account the important phenomenon of suburbanization that has been
taking place around Colombo at a rapid pace since the 19708. In the project's
context, Colombo's u:b.-n sprawl with extensive ribbon development is considered
as an integral part of the GMIA's urban economy.
1.4       As a part of GOSL's liberalized growth strategy, two large export
processing zones (EPZs) outside Colombo were established in 1978, reinforcing the
primacy of the GCHA. The surveys conducted in the 1980. indicated that the GCMA
compriseds (a) 562 of the finance, business and real estate sarvice employment;
(b) 511 of passengers and tons of goods moved; (c) 501 of manufacturing
activities; (d) 46Z of utilities; (e) 422 of wholesale and retail employment; sad
(f) 401 of social and other services. Little critical mass of urban industrial
and comercial activity is found outside the GCMA which generates over 422 of the
island's GDP, and continues to be its most important commercial, industrial,
administrative and transport center.   This concentration of population and
activities in about 5.62 of the total land area of Sri Lanka, places a severe
strain on the city's transport infrastructure. GOSL's export-oriented industris.l
strategy has so far reinforced the preeminence of the GCMA. In spite of recent
attempts to achieve a more balanced regional development, the experience of other
countries, and observations of the current situation in Sri Lanka suggest that
the continued concentration of industrial activities in the GC1A may be
unavoidable. Hence, both in the short and long terms, enhancing the availability
and quality of transport services in the GCM4 will be the Government's priority
objective.
Colombo Transnort System
1.5       Colombo has evolved as the central hub of the national transport
network, with all major road and rail systems emanating from the capital, to
facilitate movement of produce from the estates to Colombo Port for export.
There is virtually no interconnection between regional centers other than through
Colombo. The GCXA is served by a dense, fixed-route, recently privatized bus
network, an extensive road network, and commuter rail lines paralleling four of
the five major radial roads converging on Colombo. Over 20,000 private and
public transport buses provide frequent services on over 400 routes in the
metropolitan region to carry two-tbirds of the total vehicle passengers.
1.6       The bus modal share in the early to mid-1980. had been 80-851 of total
urban travel, followed by rail transport comprising 101 and private cars and
para-transit modes 51. By 1992, there has been a significant shift in modal
choice. The share of buses has declined to 672 of total urban travel and the
railway was carrying only 52 of the total while the combined share of automobiles
and motorcycles increased dramatically to 282. Therefore, one of the challenges
facing the sector in the 1990s is retaining public transport's share of the urban
travel market which has been declining in recent years due to rising incomes, bus
overloading, lack of proper bus facilities, poor passenger comfort in the train
and shortage of passenger coaches.   Unless the supply of public transport is
The definition of "urbanW  is the aggregate number of populations
residing in municipalities and towns, with inhabitants greater than
50,000. Department of Census and Statistics (annualiy issued) and
Asian Development Bank, Sri Lanka Urban Sector Profile, Jsnaary 1991,
Chapter III.



- 3 -
increased and the quality of the services improved, an increasing share of travel demand
will be satinfied by other modes of transport, such *. motorcycle. and private cars. The
diversion of bus and rail transport trips to these less efflcient modes of travel would
greatly increase vehicle kilometers of travel, traffic congestion in the GC0A and the
attendant costs to the economy.
1.7       On the five major travel corridors entering Colombo, buses constitute only 141
of the total vehicular traffic, but carry 66X of the total passengers. In the central
area (Olcott Hawatha) of Colombo, buses comprise 402 of total mixed trafficWt but carry
nearly 902 of vehicular passengers.  Thus the majority of the GCMA inhabitants depend
upon the public transport system to meet nearly all their travel needs, including the
important journey to and from the work place. The only other mode of transport for the
poor is either walking or bicyc'.ing, alternatives that are often not feasible given the
long travel distances involved. The trends iu passenger travel and traffic in the GCHA
are documented in Annex 1.
1.8       In an effort to make the bus subsector more efficient, GOSL is in the process
of divesting its holdings in bus-related assets. As of 1993, 85 bus companies have been
created, with the ownership of the companies equally shared by the workers and the
Treasury.  In addition, the bus industry has been deregulated with the establishment of
the National Transport Commission in 1991 (--.ta- 1.18).  GOSL's implementation strategy
for privatization of the remaining assets inc.Lucits an orderly transfer of ownership to
the private sector through: (a) sale of 50S of the shares cwned by the Treasury in the
85 privatized companies$ and (b) sale of the remaining assets (workshops, land, building,
buc body building plants, etc.) after evaluating alternative methods of divestiture that
would maximize returns to the Government, private investments in plant and equipment,
technology transfer and employment opportunities. In order to enable GOSL to. implement
this st?ategy, technical assistance is being provided under the Economic Restructuring
Credit (Cr. 2128-CE).
1.9       The total vehicle fleet in Sri Lanka (most of which operate in Colombo) grew
steadily through the 1980. and recently accelerated from 1988 to the present (see Table
1.1). The average growth rate had been 13.61 per year for the fleet as a whole between
1981 and 1991, but the pace was faster at 172 per year between !aid8 and 1991. Over a
ten-year period, motorcycles led the way, with 212 average annual growth, followed by
buses and dual purpose vehicles (vans and pickups) which registered about 162 annual
ST vth, and cars and trucks--about 52. New motorcycle registrations ballooned since
1988, averaging almost 272 per year, while the other vehicle registrations have increased
substantially only in the last 2-3 years. Vehicle ownership, which has grown three times
as fast as the country's GDP during the same period, is expected to continue at the
current high rates as a function of real per capita income growth.
Table 1.1: GROWTH OF VEHICLE POPULATION, 1981 - 1991
(Percent)
Vehicle                      Average Annual Growth Rates
Type                         1981-91         1988-91
oteroyol                           21.2                 26.7
Cos and Tais                         4.8                  5.3
Dual Ppose/piokup                   15.9                 11.0
Buses                               18.0                 10.8
Trucks                              6.3                   3.4
Tat&l Fleet                     13.8                 17.1
urce: Annex 1, Tables 1.2 ana  .
Al        Not counting the railways and walking.



-4-
1 10      Traffic volumes on major roads in the region have been icreasing at
an annual rate of 6-82 for the past several years. This growth has not been wet
with either sufficient investments in new road capacity or significant actions
to make more efficient use of the existing road network. The result is 8reater
traffic congestion on nearly every major travel corridor In Greater Colombo.
Traffic flows to and from the city center has been constrained by inadequate
intersection design, infringement on road space by shops, slow-umvig push-carts,
teaming pedestrian flows, primitive traffic control devices, parked buses and
cars, and disorganized bus loading/unloading operations and street closures due
to security problems. In the central areas of Fort and Pettah, vith intense
wholesall/retail market activities, travel conditions have deteriorsted greatly.
Of the 35 major road links located in these areas, at least ten have effectively
lost one or more lanes of directional capacity due to road space Infringements,
buses taking up entire block faces to discharge and rick up passengers and parked
vehicles blocking traffic flows in up to three lanes. Forecast 1995 vehicle
traffic demand in three of the five corridors entering these two areas will
exceed the peak hour capacity of the existing road network. Since most of the
passengers entering the area arrive by bus, ana the Poct Railway Station
discharges over 20,030 passengers during peak hours, traffie management measures
which give priority access to buses and segrogate pedestrians from vehicular
traffic are urgently needed to maintain reasonable access to downtown Colombo.
1.11      Road safety conditions are particularly poor along the major roads
entering the Fort, Pettah and Maradana Junction areas of the city where high
volum. pedestrian crossings occur. Lack of median reservations, walkways and
traffic controA devices at intersections combine to create an unsafe traffic
envirorment. Large numbers of pedestrians using the roadway greatly increase
accident exposure and decrease road capacity.
1.12      Although  there are some structural deficiencies,  the size and
configuration of the GCMA's road network is generally adequate. At issue are the
deteriorated conditions of the road network due to the combination of heavy
traffic volumes, poor drainage and insufficient investment funds allo_ated for
routine and periodic road maintenance to arrest further deteriorstion. The roads
in the Pettah area are especially poor with large pot holes, irregular surfaces
and cracked edges. In 1985, the Government prepared an immediate-term road
rehabilitation program in an effort to reduce the backlog of periodic road
maintenance by improving -- :face conditions on several roads in Colombo.l' The
rehabilitation of Olcott Mawatha (a major travel artery connecting with Pettah)
included in the project forms a part of this program. In the medium term, the
Government intends to construct some relatively short missing road links, along
with strategic spot junction improvements, to increase network efficiency and
capacity and minimize the unevenly distributed traffic flows which cause severe
congestion In some are-S.
Local Government Prmework
1.13      As in many countries, there are thvee levels of government in Sri
Lanka, with the eight Provincial Councils forming an intermediate layer between
the Central Government aud local councils. The Central Government devolved many
of its functions to the Provincial Councils which are responsible for local
government adminlstration and development through the Ministry of Local
Government. The Western Provincial Council which governs the GCMA is the most
powerful and influential.
As of early 1993, the Galle and Prince of Wales roads have been
rehabilitated which make-up about 201 of the program.



1.14     ibnicloal A.tt&stration.   The urban institutional framework to
complex due tot   (a) involvement of several government aminstries; (b) a
multiplicity of special project units and departments for specific works;
(a) devolution of some powers to local levels of administrations and
(d) formation of parastatals and utility companies to operate and waintain
various elements of infrastrticture. There are 51 Urban Local Authorities (ULAs)
comprising 12 lhnicipal Councils, Including the Colcubo Municipality (Annex 2),
and 39 Urban Councils.JV The ULA powers are conferred by statute through the
Municipal and Urbar. Cour¢il Ordinances.   The masi  responsibilities of the
cowucils are the reg,4lation and administration of all matters relating tos  (i)
public health; (ii) public utility servicess (ii.) public thoroughfare.; and (iv)
general welfare and amenity. They are responsible for maintenance of some
streets, drainage, sanitation, solid vaste collection and disposal, and
recreation and comunity fscilities. Despite the devolution of some ptvers to
the PCs, the Central Government still exerts a dominant influence ove. the
functioning c' the ULAs by retaining its powers to provide grants to ULAs and by
directly carrying out a number of visible programs and projects at the local
level through line ministries and agencies. The more important national agencies
involved in the GCIA (Annex 2) are:  (i) Urban Development Authority (UDA) set
up in 1978 to promote integrated planning and development in urban areas; (ii)
Board of Investment responsible for attracting foreign investment and industrial
growth (e.g., EPZa north of Colombo); and (iii) National Water Supply and
Drainage Board established in 1975 to assume responsibility for urban and rural
water supply and urban sewerage schemes.
1.15      Municipal Finances.  The PCs and MLAs were given the responsibilitieq
by the Central Government for managing operational and maintenance expenditure
programs for roads, traffic signals, drainag, and buildings for which they have
a better understanding of local needs. The Central Government collects most
direct and indirect taxes while the local governments have been assigned limited
revenue sources, notably property taxes and sta"p duties. Consequently, ULAs
depend on Government grants to cover the cost of their administration and the
operations and maintenance of assets. Although ULAs8 expenditures have not
increased in the past decade in real terms, their financial position has
deteriorated due to obsolete and incomplete assessments of local tax generating
assets and activities. To increase local resource mobilization potential and
improve administration of ULAs' existing revenue sources, technical assistance
is being provided under the Municipal Management Project (Cr. 1697-CE). Improved
and updated valuation, rating and revenue records would substantially increase
locsl tax revenues. Total transfers from the Central Govermaent to the ULAs have
increased steadily from about SRs 580 million in 1984 to SRs 3 billion in 1991.
These transfers absorbed about 1.2S of the Government's recurrent expenditure
budget in 1991.
1.16      CMC's flmnancial performance has been better than most ULAs even though
its deficits ranged from SRs 24 zillion to SRs 148 million between 1987 and 1990.
CMC's revenues are generated from: rates and taxes; grants and refundst and
staxp duty and leases. Stamp duty is a sum payable on private purchase of land
and is equivalent to between 32 and 42 of the purchase price. The main reasons
for CMC's poor revenue performance are attributed to its failure to collect stamp
duty  and  obtain  grants  and  refunds  from  the  Central Government.   The
establisbment of the PCs in 1991 has exacerbated CMC's financial problems as
6/        The GCMA comprises CMC and eight other mmuicipalities (para. 1.3).



6-
about 42Z of forecast revenue is now routed through the Western PC.  This
Includes stamp duty which was formerly payable directly to CMC, and grantswhich
were provided directly by the Central Government. Ad-minstrative delays In
vefunding this monsy hao caused major cash flow problems to CEC. Table 1.2 shows
CEC's four-year development plan (1992-95) which was approved by the PC. In
1992, CXC financed much of the capital development work through its bank
overdraft, but with a capital grant of SRU 136 million from the Centval
Government, CXC wae able to maintain a zero deficit in 1992. In 1993, CMC's
financial position Is expected to improve through the collection of the SRs 300
million rates arrears, the majority of which is owed by Government organizations.
Action Is being taken to recover arrears initially from those owing more than SRs
100,000, followed by the recovery of arrears from those owing more than SRs
50,000. With these actions, CMC is eVpected to recover most of the SR. 300
million arrears In 1993 which would comfortably finance CZC's forecast of
expenditures without Government grants.
Table 1.2: FORECAST CAPITAL EXPENDITURES UNDER TRE FOUR YEAR PLAN
(In million SRs)
Road Rehabilitation              19.00         7.0         32.26         9 0
Road Improvements w/                                                    17 0
Traffic Signals                  15.15         5.0         64.53
Drainage Improvements            46.60        16.0         90.67        24.0
BldU. Maiut. &
Improvements
ME* Department                 91.82        32.0         44.98        12.0
Other Departments             -38.53        14.0         25.17         7 0
Vehicles
HE Department                  47.62        16.0         56.37        15.0
Other Departments              12.88         4.0         25.53         7.0
Equipment
HE Department                  15.18         5.0         23.07         6.0
Other Departments               2.81         1.0         10.72         3.0
TOTAL                      289.60       100.00       373.30      100.00
wgg - MunM.cIpal. ngineer's Department 
Instatutional and Finaneial Aspects of Urban Transvort
1 17      Urban Transuort Administration.  Within the GCMA, the following
institutions are involved in the transport sectors (a) CXC - plays a major role
in the construction, rehabllitation and maintenance of Colombo roads and in the
provision of traffic engineering and management devices (see Annex 2 for a more
detailed description of CHC functions)I (b) Traffic Police - identifies accident
prone blackspots, mnitors traffic accidents and enforces traffic rules and
regulationst (c) Road Development Authority (RDA) - is responsible for Class A



-7-
and B roads but delegates its responsibility to CMC for rehabilitation and
maintenance of these roads in Colombo City under an agreed budget; (d) Sri Lanka
Railways (SLR) - provides commuter rail services; (e) National Transport
Commission (NTC) - Is responsible for regulations of the bus transport industry;
and (f) Provincial Councils (PCs) are responsible for the issuance of bus route
permits, managemer' -t bus terminals and reir ration of vehicles. The Ministry
of Transport and 1'.ghv-ys (MIT) is also in fed in the urban transport eector
as RDA, SLR and x i.a. under Its jurisdiction.
1.18      Transuo ..t Reaulation. The legislation which regulates the operstions
of motor vehicles and buses is as followst
(a) Motor Vehicles. The primary legislation for this mode is the Motor
Traffic Act No.  14 of 1951, as amended.   This Act provides a
satisfactory framevork for the control and regulation of motor
vehicles, including registration, operating permits, liceuse fees,
third-party riske, limits on gross vehicle weights and examination,
inspection and testing of vehicles.z/
(b)  Buses.  The Nat:'inal Transport Commission Act No. 37 of 1991 repealed
the previous legislation vwich regulated the bus Industry. With the
passage of this Act: (i) NTC has been established; (ii) bus industry
and fares have been deregulated; (iII) issuance of route permits to
be administered by PCs is automatic except on very congested routes;
(iv) route permits are based on road classifications; (v) tendering
procedures are formulated for procurement of bus services on
uneconomic routes; (vi) a format for monitoring bus service has been
adopted; (vii) guidelines on obligations of bus operators and
passengers have been laid down; and (viii) procedures for vehicle
fitness inspection and medical fitness of bus drivers have been
tightened.
1.19      Roads _User Charges.  Road user charges include taxes, license and
registration fees and duties which are collected over and above general revenue
(i.e., 102 import duty and 152 turnover tax). For many years, total revenues
from road user charges have been considerably larger than actual expenditures in
road rehabilitation and maintenance (which have been insufficient).   These
revenues would in fact have been sufficient to cover the higher budget levels
required for proper road maintenance. As is typical in many economies, road user
charges are used partly to fund sector expenditures and partly for general
expenditures. In 1991 and 1992, totsl revenues from road user charges averaged
about SRs 8 billion per year as compared with total road expenditures (both
capital and recurrent) of SRs 2.5 billion in 1991 and SRs 3.0 billion in 1992,
or the required higher budget of SRU 4 billion.
1.20      Bus Finances.  Until the fare deregulation which came into force in
1991, the bus industry suffered from a poor financial position due to regulated
low-fares. Bus fares are being increased selectively now and as this trend
continues, the profitability of bus operations will improve. The performance
indicators of the privatized companies available since the privatization of the
bus industry began in January 1991 show increased ridership, bus productivity,
revenues and availability. About 7O0 of the privatized companies are making a
7/        The legislative framework to enforce vehicle emission controls will
be In place when the Clean Air Act 2000 is adopted by GOSL (expected
during 1993).



profit In contrast with the paot record of the Sri Lanka Central Transport
Board's chronic annual deficits requiring budgetary support.  GOSL through TC
vill subsidize specific rural routes and other social services considered
desirable, based on competitive tendering.
1.21      WLA Pingncs.  GOSL controls over 8LR pricing have kept fares well
below costs for many years (since independence). While the estimated operating
costs increased by 20A in real terms between 1985 and 1990, they have not been
offset by increased revenues; on the contrary, fares, which have declined by 25S
in real terms during the same period, are highly subsidized. The subsidies are
up to 902 for season ticket holders, civil servants and school children, which
have led to annual operating losses of SRs 1.0 billion to SRs 1.5 billion in
recent yearsa. SLR restructuring plamned for implementation under the project
focuses on the initial phase of financial, operational and pricing reforms (Annex
3).  As a part of restructuring, railway tariffs will be deregulated and
subsidized services will be clearly identified for which the SLR will be
compensated by the Government. Otherwise, SLR will price their services based
on costs and their comparative advantages.
Environmental AsDects
1.22      While not yet as serious as in Bangkok, Calcutta and other large Asian
cities, there are emerging problems of air pollution in GCMA. Air pollution is
predicted to become a major problem within the next decade. The main sources of
air pollution in Colombo are emissions from mobile sources, i.e., vehicle exhaust
emissions and to a lesser extent, from stationary sources such as major
industrial enterprises.  Control of the former will be critical as vehicle
ownership and use rise in the GCMA. There is a need to assess the existing
levels of emissions from vehicles and industries to identify the major causes of
the problems and to formulate an appropriate regulatory policy to manage an air
quality monitoring program. For these reasons, under the project, the necessary
first steps will be taken to measure air quality, set up standards and monitor
compliance.
Previous Bank/IDA Operations
1.23      The proposed project would be the first IDA/Bank-financed urban
transport project in Sri Lanka. However, IDA financed operations in both the
urban and trausport sectores three completed projects--Road Maintenance I (Cr.
900-CE, PCR No. 8000, 8189), Road Passenger Transport (Cr. 994-CE, PCR No. 8011,
8/89), and the Roads II Project (Ln. 2517-CE, PCR in draft); and three ongoing
projects--Roads III (Cr. 2183-CS), Municipal Management (Cr. 1697-CE), and the
Economic Restructuring Credit (Cr. 2128-CE) under which the bus industry is being
privatized. The proposed project recognizes the lessons from these previous
projects, includitg: (a) detailed ngineering and designs should be completed
for all components prior to negotiations to finalize cost estimates to avoid
large cost over-runs, enable GOSL to provide sufficient funds for completion of
works and to ensure a timely start-up; (b) project design and procurement methods
should not be overly complex in order to prevent a long implementation period and
to muinmize delays in procurement; and (c) the establishment of a clear
functional, organizational and management structure is essential for the
successful lIplementation of the project and to improve performance in the
transport sector. The project has been designed with these lessons in mind.
a/        Revenues from freight tariffs cover estimated operating costs.



-9-
,Countrv Assistance Strateuv
1.24      The  GOSL'o  development  strategy  is  to  promote  export-oriented
industrial growth In the lon8 run in recognition of the limited market prospects
for its traditional agricultural products (teat rubber). Although the COSL and
IDA support the efforts of agricultural diversification almed at increasing non-
traditionAl exports, farm Incomes and employment generation in rural areas as a
means to reduce poverty, the first order of priority is to create an environment
conducive to expandtng private sector participation in the economy and attracting
greater foreign investment and technology transfer in order to enhance the
country's external competitiveness. To attain competitive advantages over the
neighboring countries in Asia, GOSL is pursuing a strategy oft (a) sustaining
macroeconomic stability; (b) further liberalizing economic and trade policies;
(c) upgrading the skills of the labor forceo and (d) providing good
infrastructure (transport, telecommunications, power) so critical to the
successful comercialization of the economy. IDA's infrastructure developmenr.
strategy is to support GOSL's effort to achieve its objective of export-led
growth. In the imediate term, IDA'o lending program vill focus on the provision
of   infrastructure  services   (electricity  and  telecommunications)   and
implementation of low-cost traffic management /road rehabilitation in the GCMA and
deferred maintenance of the country's national roads before embarking on large
transport investment projects.   The continued concentration of industrial
enterprises In and around Colombo will generate increased economic activities and
traffic volumes, acting both as traffic generators and attractors. Thus, the
rehabilitation of existing deteriorated infrastructure and implementation of
well-conceived traffic management schemes require immediate action for short-term
relief. In the long-term, GOSL needs to formulate a viable urban transport
strategy In order to avoid Colombo's traffic congestion reaching the levels
experienced in cities like Bangkok or Manila. IDA's strategy is to support these
actions under the proposed project as an important first step.
It. THE PROJECT
Project Origins
2.1       The policy dialogue during the preparation of the Transport Sector
Nemorandum (Beport No. 8362-CE, June 1991) led to an agreement with GOSL that IDA
would focus its next transport operation on relieving the deteriorating traffic
situation in Colombo. At the same time, GOSL requested technical assistance for
consultancy services necessary to strengthen the NTC, urban transport
Institutions, the Central Enviromental Authority, and to assist with
implementation of SLR restructuring, aimed at increasing its operational
efficiency.   Consultancy services for the preparation of the main project
components were financed through an advance under IDA's Project Preparation
Facility (PPF  471-CE).   The feasibility study for the Maradana Jun¢Zion
Improvements was financed by the Overseas Development Administration of the
United Kingdom.
Qklictaves
2.2       The main objectives of the project are to:  (a) remove transport
bottlenecks and traffic congestion in Central Colombo that Impose high costs on
commercial and industrial establishments; (b) develop long-term transport plans
for the GCMA and strengthen institutions concerned with urban transport;
(a) strengthen the managerial capabilities of the NTC and PCs; (d) increase the
officiency of the SLR; and (e) promote adequate air quality standards and
emission control measures.



- 10 -
Progect Descriytion
2.3       Overview.   To achieve the above objectives, the project includes
financing for: (a) an Immediate Action Plant Transport System Management (TSM)
Program for three areas in Central Colombo and Naradana Junction Improvementst
(b) Long-Term Urban Transport PlanningI and (e) Institutional Strengthening.
These components are described in more detail below.
A. Immediate Action Plan
2.4       TSM for Fort. Pettah and Olcott Mawatha (USS9.7 million).   This
component includes improvement measures in the Fort area of Colombo and along the
contiguous Olcott Mawatha corridor, including Pettah. The Fort area is the major
business and comercial district in the center of Colombo. The area is currently
served by a one-way street system. During peak periods, junctions are congested,
conditions for pedestrians are poor and intense pedestrian/vehicle conflicts
result in safety hazards. The 2.3 km of Olcott Mawatha included in the project
(Map Nos. 24659 and 24660) is the major bus corridor in the Colombo area and
carries one-way peak flows of over 400 buses per hour. The road serves the major
SLR station of Fort, accommodates heavy traffic to the Fort area from the east
and provides access to the Pettah commercial and market area. Traffic congestion
is severe, bus services are chaotic, road surface conditions are poor and
pedestrian and bus passenger facilities are glaringly deficient. An integrated
traffic management improvement and road rehabilitation program included in the
project w111 improve traffic capacity, quality of bus operations and effective
use of road, vehicles and footpaths for pedestrians. The works will include:
(a) junction improvements (signals, channelization, revised layouts); (b) bus and
passenger facilities (basic improvements to a local terminal, segregated bus
stops and links where geometry allows, bus bay and reorganized and improved bus
stops); (a) pedestrian facilities (new and rehabilitated footpaths to segregate
vehicles and people, pedestrian signals and a direct footbridge connection
between the Fort Rail Station and the Pettah area); (d) street lighting; (e) re-
paving; (f) rehabilitation of the road and pavement; (g) rehabilitation of
surfac. drainage; and (h) minor repairs to two canal bridges. A traffic law
enforcement program will be implemented to support the TSM measures   To enable
the scheme to function satisfactorily, street traders will be given spaces at
Charmers Granaries contiguous to Pettsh.
2.5        aradana Junction Imorovements  (USS6 .8 million),   The Maradana
intersection is another major traffic bottleneck on the approaches to Central
Colombo. The main problem stems from the railway forming a physical barrier to
the movement of north-south traffic in the northern half of the city, as there
are only three locations providing vehicular crossings of the railway line--at
Fort and Maradana vith bridges and on Baseline Road with a level crossing. With
a daily traffic volume of 44,000 vehicles, a "staggered' (off-set) alignment, and
a main railway station, severe congestion and delays occur at Maradana
intersection. After analyzinSg several alternatives, it was concluded that the
provision of additional capacity at Maradana would be most economically achieved
by the construction of a gyratory consisting of an additional bridge, parallel
to the existing bridge and over the railway tracks   This option requires no
property or land 3xpropriation. The existing bridge is 30m long by 26m wide
constructed over three spans with brick arches between steel beams. Support
would be provided by brick piers and abutments. The new b' dge would be 38m long
by 14.6 vide, with a two-span consisting of a reinforced concrete deck slab
connected to the steel beams. Support would be provided by reinforced concrete
piers and abutments on spread foundations. The southbound traffic would use the
existing bridge while the northbound traffic will use the new bridge. The
bridges would provide three lanes in each direction and an additional segregated,



- 11 -
northbound bus lane. The imediate approaches to the uew gyratory would be
iproved to ensure that the capacity i* used effectively and the linked
signatlzation would reduce vehicle-to-vehicle conflicts at entry points to the
system. Maradana Road, north of the junction, Is currently being widened to two
lanes In each direction by CMC and tbus its capacity will be consistent with the
new improved junction. Capacity calculations show that the junction will be able
to accommodate traffic flows of 60,000 - 70,000 vehicles per day. Depending on
traffic growth, it is estimated that the juuction should provide sufficient
capacity to meet the expected growth in demand during the five to ten year period
following completion.
2.6       Imnlementat_on  Su%wport E1582.9 millions.   Consultancy  services
comprising 130 staff-months of expatriate assistance and 600 staff-months of
local experts will be provided for the supervision of the TS and Maradana
Junction improvement schemes.
B.  on-Term Urban Transport PlanninM
2.7       The rapid increase in transport demand has not been matched by
sufficient investment and institutional improvements to manage traffic movements.
While the project would make some inroads on key aspects of these problems, the
Colombo Urban Transport Study included in the project (US$1.6 million) will
address the transport infrastructure, service aad management deficiencies and
prepare comprehensive policy and associated investment plans. During the first
phase, the study would undertake travel corraidor analysis based on transport
surveys, evaluate bus and rail modal choice, analyze economic and financial
viability of investment options, and identify institutional reforms and policy
action plans needed for the long-term period.   During the second phase,
fessibility analyses of highest priority investments identified during the first
phase would be undertaken. The study would require about 60 staff-months of
expatriate and 200 staff-months of local consultancy services to carry out the
study and provide on-the-job training of the counterpart staffs from the agencies
involved in urban transport planning. Personal computers, a printer and other
off'ce equipment and software will also be procured.  The agreed terms of
reference for the study are summarized in Annex 4. The policy action plan
prepared under the study would be discussed and its implementation schedule
agreed with the Government in 1995.
C. Inagttutional Srenathening
2.8       Strengthening of National Transport Commission and Provincial Councils
(USS1.0 Million). The NTC, a regulatory agency, was set up in conjunction with
bus privatization to implement liberalized pricing and industry development
policies, administer a program of public service obligation and enforce vehicle
testing requirements. In addition, in 1992, the PC. assumed the responsibility
for issuing route permits and managing bus ter4mnals. The proposed technical
assistance is intended to strengthen the managerial capabilities of these new
lintitutions. Conoultancy services would be provided for: (a) training of NTC's
management and technical staff with the i_stallation of a management information
systems (b) bus route costing study and training of NTC staff to enable periodic
updating of cost information; and (c) training of PC staff in the Issuance of
route permits, registration of vehicles by type and management of bus terminals.
About ten personal computers and software packages would be procured as part of
this component, to be co-financed with UNDP. The agreed outline terms of
reference for technical assistance to the NTC and PCs are contained in Annex 5.
2.9       Restructurina of the Sri Laika Railways (USS2.7 million). The Cabinet
has approved, and the Parliament is considering legislation that would



- 12 -
restructure the presently inefficient railways and create an autonomous Railway
Authority (SL&A), relatively free from political interf.:ence. The Authority
vould have three functional divisions--suburban comuter, long-distance passenger
and freight services--operating on a cosmercial basie as separate profit centers
(Annex 3). The Authorityg' Board of seven members (of which three would be from
the private sector) vould be empowered to set fares and take decioion oan
procurement, personnel management, and the provision of services. The Authority
would enter into Public Service Obligation (PSO) contracts with GM01 with
compensation paid to the railways in accordance with a autually agreed cost
recovery formula, thus making the budget subsidies transparent and explicit. The
proposed technical assistance would enable the GCSL/SLR to initiate the process
of reform through restructuring. Annex 6 provides the agreed terms of reference
for consultancy services to: (a) advise the SLRA Board and Managing Director to
begin the comtmercialization process of operations; (b) train the financial,
operating and marketing department staff to improve their skills in costing of
oervices, financial reporting and market analysis; (c) asslst in the installation
of management Information and service costing systems (MIS)IV and train the
concerned staff; and (d) develop a contract framework and a reimbursement formula
to be used by SLRA for PSO contract negotiations with the GM01.  Personal
computers will be procured and software vill be either purchased or developed.
The initial phase of restructuring is intended to improve operations and
financial performance to increase chances of successful private sector
involvement at a later time.
2 10      In preparation for the next phase of restructuring, the GOSL intends
to evaluate different options and suitable timing for privatization of certain
aspects of railway operations and assets. Thus the project includes funds for
technical assistance to carry out such a study. The outline terms of reference
for the study are contained in Anex 7. The consultants' scope of work includes:
(a) diagnosis of the present business; (b) grouping of businesses which could be
of interest to the private sector; (c) market demand analysis for different types
of business; (d) development of bench-marking models for each viable business
scenario and financial and economic analyses for each scenario selected; and
(e) evaluation of different asset transfer methods (sales, concessions,
franchising of services, shared privatelstate operation, management contract,
private operation with assets retained by state, *tc.). Based on the study
findings, IDA would discuss and agree with GOSL on feasible and viable methods
of implementation arrangements.
2.11      Air Oualitv Monitorint and H onaoement Study (USSO.6 million).  The
project includes the procurement of air quality testing equipment and consultancy
services for the preparation of a comprehensive air pollution control program for
Colombo. The consultants would: (a) develop an missions Inventory shoving
sources, extent and geographic variation of polluting emissions In the Colombo
area; (b) monitor major air pollutants, such as nitrogen dioxide, sulphur
dioxide, carbon monoxide and particulate mattern  (c) carry out feasibility
studies to evaluate policy options to reduce air pollution arising from vehile
exhaust emissions, including fuel quality enhbaing measures, changes in the
transport policy and management; and (d) train the Central Eavironmental
Authority staff to strengthen their capabilities to monitor and enforce air
quality standards. The agreed terms of reference are summarized in Annex S.
21    MIS and costing studies financed by the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) will provide a framework for Implementing these aspects of
restructuring.



- 13 -
Erogg't Cost Nad PinFnling
2.12      Costs.   The total cost of the project is estimated at SR. 1,112
million (US$25.3 million), with a foreign exchangSe component of US$15.3 million
(61% of total). This amount Includes PP2 advance of SRs 52.8 million (US$1.2
mllnion) which financed various studies during project preparation. The cost
estimate ti sunmarised in Table 2.1 and Includes identifiable taxes and duties
of SR  89 million (US$2 million).  Total project cost, net of taxe  sad duties,
is SRe 1,023 mallion (US$23.3 million). Base costs are expressed in December
1992 prices.   The costs of goods are based upon recent prices (1991-92) of
imported materials and equipment. The costs of civil works are based on the
1991-92 bid prices for similar works in Colombo. Cost estimates for consultancy
services are based on US$1,500 (SRs 66,000) per staff-month for local consultants
in line with prevailing market rates.  The annual rate of US$15,000 per staff-
month for foreign consultants, including subsistence and international travel
costs, is at the mid-point of the spectrum, in line with the specialized and
long-term nature of the services to be procured for the proposed studies and
technical assistance. Physical contingencies of 1OS have been applied to civil
works since final designs are completed in aggregate, physical contingencies
amount to 5Z of total costs.  Price contingencies amount to 101 of total costs
and are estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule and the following
forecast of price escalation: for local cost, 7.51 in 1993, 6.51 in 1994, 6% in
1995, and 52 p.a. thereafter; for foreign cost 3.91 in 1993 and 1994 and 3.8%
p.a. thereaftAr.
Table 2.1t  StM YR! OF PROJECT COSTS
1~~~~~~~~~
(a) Patt4h, Olcott & Fort   144.S7   S3.14   238.11     3.31    2.10     5.44   21.4      38.8
(b) Mbg ds n Jonti4n         42.68   137.72   180.40    0.97    3.13     *.10    16.2     76.3
(a) Zuplasovtat.in Sbpport    0.88   127.16   128.04    0.02    2.89     2.91    M.4      99.3
84ib Total                 188.53   358.02   546.55   4.30     8.12    12.42   49.1      65.4
it, ME 2RASNSPO  PLAN        21.12   49.26    70.40     0.48     1.12    1.60    5.5      70.0
(a) 11444 Srnpt COD3JPC      19.80   24.20    44.00     0.45    0.55     1.00    4.0      55.0
(b) Rail Restratur1ns        17.80   101.64   119.24    0.40    2.31     2.71    10.7     85.2
C) A"x Quality Manasemt       3.98    22.44    20.40    0.00    0.51     0.80    2.4      a5.0
Sob Total                   41.38   148.28   189.84   0.t4    3.37      4.31   17.0      78.2
NOTA am camss               251.01   555.56   808.58    5.72    12.61    18.33   72.5     68.8
bysioaL Ccstftsaneuas        21.80    34.45    58.25    0.50     0.78     1.28    5.1     E0.9
Priea Coutinagues            $7.40    40.20   107.80    1.53     0.91     2.44    0.7     37.3
Eoject Pre FaoiUty            8.80   44.00    52.80     0.20     1.00     1.20    4.7     83.3
STAY= !2c4m C1STB           949.01   674.32   1023.33   7.05    15.30    23.25   92.0     88.7
Cagcludiss taxgs)._ 
Tax e  Dutiu                 89.02    0.0      89.02    2.03     0.0     2.03    8.0       0.0
-   - -  - -
S£la= am=rS COSS8           48.02  074.32   1112.35     9.W    1t.30    25.28   100.0    60.5
tam a S .._     s_



- 14 -
2.13      Pinaucing. An IDA credit of US$20 million is propc ad which would finance
952 of foreign costs and 862 of total costs, excluding ta-- and duties. UNDP and
CIDA would co-finance the technical assistance program Includse in the project, with
each contributing US$0.5 million for the training of NTC and PC staff (UNDP) and for
the railway costing study as a part of the SLR restructuring plan (CIDA).
Retroactive financing of US$0.5 million (2.5: of the IDA credit) to be expended
after March 1, 1993 would be provided to procure all categories of items included
in the project (pars 2.21). The project financing plan is shown in Table 2.2.
During negotiations, GOSL assurances were obtained that it would allocate sufficient
counterpart funds needed to implement the project.
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Financina. ByS
Local      Foreign
Currenc,7   Currency    Total     _
---------(US$ million)------
IDA                              5.5          14.5       20.0      79.0
UND?                             0.2           0.3        0.5       2.0
CANADA                           0.0          0.5         0.5       2.0
COSL                             4.3           0.0        4.3     _17.0
TOTAL                 10.0         L5A         fi       100.0
Ilsuementation. Disbursements and Audits
2.14     ITmlementation 12hsuonsibilities.  CMC would serve as the implementing
agency for the TSM program and Maradana Junction improvements, assisted by
consultants. CMC would coordinate with tht RDA and UDA for the civil works
elements and the Traffic Police (TP) for the law enforcement program.  The
implementation and performance of the components would be monitored by a Project
Monitoring Committee (PMC), chaired by MTN Secretary and comprising
representatives from UDA, RDA, SLR, TP, NTC/PC, Transport Studies and Planning
Center (TSPC) and CMC. The PIC has already been established and is meeting
regularly to coordinate final stages of project preparation. PMC would monitor
progress and disseminate its findings, resolve implementation problems and
recommend actions to the appropriate, involved agencies.  TSPC, working in
conjunction with the CMC, would prepare "before" and "after" traffic studies to
provide a quantitative basis for evaluating the effectiveness of the TSU program
and Maradana Junction improvements (Annex 9).
2.15      PZC would serve as the steering comittee for all studies undertaken
by consultants. The Colombo Urtan Transport Study would be supervised on a day-
to-day basis by TSPC who would also participate In, and provide counterpart staff
for, the Study. The technical assistance for SLR restructuring, costing and
privatisation studies would be Implemented by SLRA, assisted by consultants. The
training of NTC/PC staff and bus route costing would be executed by the MgE and
NTC, assisted by consultants.   The Air Quality Management Study would be
administered by the Central Environmental Authority (CIA) in coordination with
the of Metropolitan Environment Improvement Program (tMIP).  A summary of
executing agencies is shown in Table 2.3.



. 15,-
Table 2.3t ITPLZhETATTION AGENCIES
1. Colosbo Traffic Management (TS works)    CEC
2. Colombo Traffic Management (enforcement)  Traffic Police
3. Maradana Junction Improvement               CMC
4. Railway Restruct/Privatixation Study        SLRIHM
5. Training of NTCIPC and Bus Costing Study  NTC/MJ
6. Colombo Urban Transport Planning Study    TSPC
7. Air quality Monitoring Study                CZA (nEiP)
2.16      Imulezentation Schedule. The project lmplementation Schedule is shown
iu Annex 10. The project is eapected to be implemented over a six-year period
and the closing date would be June 30, 1999. This is a more rapid implementation
period thAn the standard disbursement profile (7h years) for Sri Lanka, but the
civil works involved are small for the TSM program, the Maradana Junction
improvement schome is localized, and final designs for all have been completed.
The remainder of the credit is allocated to the procurement of personal
computers, air quality testing and other equipment and consulting services. For
these reasons, a six-year implementation period has been judged to be achievable.
2.17      Acttion Plan. An Operational Action Plan for the period April 23, 1993
to December 31, 1998 was agreed at negotiations which defines the steps necessary
an4 the agency responsibilities for the progress of the project. The TSPC would
be responsible for annual updating of the Action Plan.
2.18      2iabusements.  Based on the estimated implementation schedule, the
proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the following categories of
works, goodsleqAipment and services, as shown in Table 2.4.   An estimated
disbursement schledule is shown in Annex 10.
Table 2.4s DISBURSEMENIS
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                 2 of
Category           (expressed in               Expenditures to
US$ equivalent)               be Financed
1. Civil Works and
Maradana Junction
Bridge                     7,560,000                     701
2. Equipment and Goods,
including Footbridge       1,150,000          1002 of foreign costs;
1002 of ex-factory costs
of local expenditures,
or 70Z of other local
expenditures
3. Consultancy Services
and Trainin&               4,830,000                    100l
4. Repayment of Project
Preparation Advance           60.000
TOTAL                  14,400,000



- 16 -
2.19      To facilitate disbursement, it was agreed at negotiations that a
Special Account would be openedo, with an initial deposit of US$0.5 million In a
bank acceptabl, to IDA. TSPC would admtnister the account and would draw upon
the Special Account for payment of contracts for goods, serviCes and work.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted by TSPC
monthly or whenover the Account is drawn down to 40S of the initial dcposit,
whichever is sooner. Disbursement would be made against priced contracts for the
gcmAs, services and works procured under the IDA credit, and statements of
expenditures (SOEe), if any.
2.20      CNC  and  TSPC  would  establish  separate  project  accounts  for
expenditures under the project. CMC would maintain the account pertaining to the
TSM program and the Maradana Junction improvements, but all expenditures would
be disbursed to the implementing agencies, including CMC, through TSPC.
Aesurances were obtained during negotiations thats (a) TSPC and CEC would
establish their project accounts; (b) CMC and TSPC would furnish to IDA, within
nine months of the end of each year, audit reports prepared by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; and (c) the audit reports would contain a separate
opinion where SOEs have been used as a basis for disburseomnt. TSPC and CMC have
appointed the heads of their respective project accounts departments.
2.21      For  expenditures  incurred  between  March  1,  1993  and  credit
effectiveness, retroactive financing of US$0.5 million would be provided in order
to permit advance procurement of consulting services, works and goods which must
begin before credit effectiveness in order to meet target dates for
implementation of critical project activities.
2.22      Proaress Re-ortinfiMonitorina/Su1ervisioi.    Acting  as  technical
secretariat to PMC, TSPC would be responsible for overall monitorixg of the
project, and would prepare and forward progress reports to IDA. Progress reports
would include the conventional indicators such as actual disbursements in
comparison with the schedule in Annex 10, and, for the TSM and Maradana Junction
improvements, the reports would compare key dates (contract signing, comencement
and completion of works) with the estimated dates given in the Implementation
Schedule and would define actions, if necessary, to recover any delays. The
impact of the traffic management program would be asseass. in accordance with the
procedures set out in Annex 9 (para. 2.14).  TSPC would be responsible for
preparing the Project Complhtion Report. These arrangements were discussed and
confirmed during negotiations. The project is expected to require about 16 staff
weeks per year of supervision or about 80 staff weeks over the six-year
implementation period (Annex 11 - Supervision Plan). During negotiations, GOSL
agreement was obtained that it would hold a maid-term review of the project with
IDA in December 1995.
Prourement
2.23      It was agreed at negotiations that the procurement of goods and civil
works would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank Croup Procurement
Guidelines.   The procurement procedures  for each  component/category  are
sumnarized in Table 2.5. All IDA financed contracts in excess of US$0.5 million
equivalent would be subject to prior IDA review; other contracts would be subject
to selective post-ward review, but the extent of review work would be minimized
by CMC's use of standardized bidding documents agreed with IDA.



- 17 -
Table .5: BwAN Of UROCUUNST MMCOuCS
CONV.RACTM?1
S - Wext inte*se*tes (xcluding trattio sinals, ctr.et Local Compettiv Bidding
liat sd seo" a}us)                           (one paokae)
-   ett wawths Corridor (CaecIndin traffic signs",   Divided Into 4 psokaeos with LC
*treet Usbts. rad a tsois mid totbrldga)     for each pa'kag.
TaI - sino bcdse streasetenins d,ou Oloott Uaatha  Local, CoMp4 btive Bidding (1 *g)
bRd agcxins (for  all SS coponets)           Force Accouqt by QCA
P destzian Footb:ids.v t Fort Station        Inetaationeal Ccop.titive Bidding
(using 'desipi-supply-asssable)
Farsdsa Junctlon Improvements (eoxaUdin  trafic sipelsa)  International Competitive Bidding
(2 gcskagea)
Goods & ?cv _ t:
trUIe signal (for all TSS nd aradana components)  International Competitive Bidding
Street Liebts (to: *11 TSI components)      Frudent International Shopping
RAipoent (pcl. counteros vwbiles)           Prudent Shopping
All studie trainig and other assistance      World Bank Group GuIdelines tar
Use of Consultants
2.24      Trafflc 8rstet Manseement Proaram.  It is essential to divide the TSE
in Fort and along the Olcott lawatha Corridor works into a series of paekages to
ensure that traffic is kept moving at all times. Therefore, civil work. would
be divided into five packasge plus a further package for minor bridge repairs to
be tendered under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA.
The minor nature of the work. (curbinu, footpath construction, channelization,
rehabilitation of pavement and drain.) and the need to employ a number of
contractors mean that contracts would be less than US$1 million. The contracts
are unlikely to be of interest to international contractors and thus LCB
proedures vould be adopted. Road surfacing for the TSM schemes would be carried
out by CMC force account. The private sector has limited capabilities for road
surfacing in Sri Lanka and the use of CMC would, vith consultant supervision:
(a) ensure a high standard of work (based on previous ecperience of similar
projects)l (b) allow CMC to gain expertise and to   develop further their
capabilities In the execution of minor road work.; and (c) enable optimum timing
to be selected for the surfacing work to maintain traffic flows. IDA would
finance US$1 million for the surfacing, about 101 of the total cost of civil
works (excluding taxes and duties). Traffic signals would be procured through
International competitive bidding (ICB) but separately from civil works; a single
supply contract is recommended to ensure that signals equipment of consistent
standard is procured, that the signals for all parts of the scheme are
compatible, and that CMC does not face a future maintenance problem (which could
arise if different types of signals were procured as part of individual civil
works contracts). A steel footbridge at Fort rail statici is required as psrt
of the TSE program. This footbridge would be subject to ICB as a "design-supply-
asemble" contract.   Street lighting would be procured through  Prudent
International Shopping.
2.25      Msadana  untion Imurovements.  The construction contracts for the
Maradana Junction Bridge, including the minor civil works, would be procured from
prequalified contractors through ICB in accordance with the World Bank Group
Guidelines. Traffic signals, procured through ICB, would be supplied to the
successful bidder(s) for the Maradana Junction.



- 18 -
2.26      Tebhnical Assistance.  Consultency services for all the studies,
traininS and Implementation support would be procured In accordance with World
Bank Group GuideliAes for the Use of Consultants. Construction management and
supervision of vorks would bo entrusted to the expatriate consultants who have
cempleted detailed engineaerig nd designs for the TSM program and Maradana
Junction improvement scheames under PPM financing, and bave already successfully
completed the Galle Road and the Prince of Wales Avenue prcoects under similar
construction contract arrangements In collaboration with CMC.
2.27      The finacing and procurement arrangements for the project is showa
In Tsble 2.6.
Table 2.6 PROCUREMENT ARWIGEMENT
(In U.S. million)
Procuvement Method
Project                                         Prudent                          Total
Component               ICB         LCB         Shopping    Other      NIp       Costs
Civil Works             6.00         6.72                    2*00/A              14.72
(5.00)      (4.50)                   (1.00)             (10.50)
Equipment/Goods         1.00o4                 0.66I_                             1.66
(1.00)                (0.60)                             (1.60)
Training & Tech. Asst.                                       7.90g4      1.00     8.90
(7.90)              (7.90)
TOTAL              7.00        6.72       0.66         10.90        1.00    25.28
(6.00)      (4.50)    (0.60)         (8.90)     (0.00)  (20.00)
Notes rigures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IDA Credit.
NU - Not IDA Pinanced.
La   Traffic signals an4 "idesign-supply-assemble.  for Fort footbridges
/W   Street lighting, personal computers, vehicles, traffic counter, air quality testing
equipmentI
Ic   CMC Force Account for surfacing; and
/d   Includes services procured under PPP 471-CE.
III.  PROJECT J.USTIICATION AND RISXS
Mbin lenf -UR
3.1       Transport plays an important role in the urban economy of Sri Lanka.
The proposed project aims at relieving congestion and preventing further
deterioration of vital sections of the Colombo urban rosA network. The TSM
schemes, the construction of an additional bridge at Maradan, Junction, and the
enforcement of safety regulations made possible under the project would have a
major impact on the citywide traffic, resulting in reduced delays and lover
accident i ates.  Most of the quantified benefits would accrue in terms of



- 19 -
toduction in vehicle operating costs and passenger travel times. The basic
assumptions and the methodology used for the economic evaluation are presented
in Annex 12. The institutions involved in the urban transport sector in Colombo
would also benefit from their st.:engthened capabilities for multimodal planning
and coordination, traffic management, project eaecution and enforcement of
traffic safety.
Traffic Analvsis
3.2       The CNC SATURN traffic model was applied to analyze present and future
traffic flows in tho with and without project cases. This urban travel model
relates land use and demographic characteristics to the distribution of vehicular
traffic on the central urban road network in Colombo. It includes a capacity-
restraint feature that allows for the analysis of the effects of congestion on
travel speed at various levels of traffic volume and on route choice.
3.3       The SATURN model's travel assignment function is based on vehicle trip
matrices derived from origin-destination data gathered during roadside traffic
surveys completed in 1985 and in 1990. For this evaluation, 1990 link volumes
produced by the model for the Fort and Pettah road network and at Maradana
Junction were calibrated to observed 1990 cordon traffic counts taken at five
strategic locations in the area. The traffic analysis for Maradana Junction was
undertaken by comparing link flows for the various scheme combinations, devised
to relieve the level of congestion at this junction, and by considering a series
of cordons and screenlines to identify any changes in link flows into and out of
the various sections In the project area.
3.4       Having replicated actual 1990 traffic flows, an analysis of historical
traffic growth rates and roadway capacities in the area was used as a basis for
estimating the future rate of growth for through traffic in Fort, Pettah and at
Maradana Junction between 1990 and 1995. A representative traffic volume growth
rate for through traffic of 4S per annumfl was applied to the trip matrices
for the 1990-95 period. The resulting link volumes for 1990 and the traffic
forecast for 1995 are shown in Annex 12, Table 12.1
3.5       Roadway capacity limitations in Fort, Pettah and at Maradana Junction
would serve to further constrain traffic flows, sad by 1995 it is estimated that
peak hour traffic growth would level off. Additional traffic entering the area
would then be accommodated during adjoining peak period hours. Thus, peak hour
link volumes are forecast to remain constant after 1995.
Economic Evaluation Nethodologv
3.6       Economic Costs.   The economic costs of the TSI  program and the
Maradana Junction improvement scheme include the costs consisting of final
design, construction, the incremental costs of routine and periodic maintenance
associated with thesa scebmes, as well as supervision and physical contingencies.
The costs of technical assistance for SLR restructuring, bus privatization, the
Colombo Urban Transport Study and institutional development were excluded from
10t       The historical traffic growth rates for the GoMc  as a whole were
higher rsnging from 6-82 per annum. However, in the project area, the
,rowth rates would be lower due to a substantial level of congestion
and heavy traffic volumes.



- 20 -
the analysis. The economic costs of the project were obtained by making the
following adjustments to the financial costSt (a) customs duties on imported
items amounting to 15-602 were subtracted; (b) Business Turnover Tax amounting
to 5.51 was also removed; (c) labor costs were reduced by 11.91 to account for
payroll taxes sand (d) the local sales prices for fuel were adjusted downward by
35.5 to bring them in line with the border price.
3.7       Vehicle Ooeratina Costs fVOCs).  The VOCs in the Colombo area were
derived from the most recent studies of vehicle operating costs in Sri Lanka
carried out as part of the IDA-funded Road User Charges Study fRUCS). These
costs were then adjusted to represent VOCs under urban conditions in Colombo for
diffarent congestion ranges experienced in the Fort, Maradans Junction and Olcott
Mawatha (including Pettah) areas. The adjustment of VOCs for congestion effects
was made ins (a) fuel costs; (b) other distance-related costs; and (c) time-
related costs.   Fuel coats w&re adjusted by first calculating the fuel
consumption at different speeds for an average vehicle (small diesel truck) using
the HDM-III1W VOC submodel and determining the fuel consumption factor
relating to vehicle speed for each of the volume/capacity ratios, shown in Table
12.2,   Annex 12.   The fuel consumption levels were then multiplied by a
congestion factor which refleats the difference between vehicle operations at
constant speeds and operations under congested conditions requiring frequent
speed changes. W   The other distance related costs (oil, tire and repair
costs) were adjusted by taking one-third of the congestion factor for fuel W.
The time-related congestion cost factors were calculated by using the HDM-III VOC
submodel to estimate the reduction ins (a) annual overhead and interest costs per
kilometer due to increased annual kilometrage; and (b) depreciation costs per
kilometer over lifetime kilometrage of vehicles made possible by increased speed
under the project.
3.8       Vehicle 0Reratinr Cost Savinvs. Savings in VOCs were computed for the
Fort, Olcott Mawatha (including Pettah) and Maradana Junction components by
determining the number of vehicles per day and the congestion conditions that
would prevail on each of the affected roads. The weighted average VOCs for each
road section were then calculated for peak and off-peak periods, with different
congestion factors applied according to the level of congestion with and without
the project. The difference in VOCs with and without the project were multiolied
by the number of vehicles forecast on each road and the annual VOC savings
calculated for each year over the life of the project.
3.9       Passenger Time Value. The value of passenger time in the Colombo area
waa calculated in the RUCS based on the income values for bus passengers surveyed
by the Bank of Ceylon in 1989.  The value of time for car and motorcycle
passengers (excluding drivers) was calculated from statistics on household income
for vehicle owners, with car owners falling into the upper 51 of household
incomes and motorcycle drivers falling into the upper 151 of household incomes.
11/       Highway Design and Maintenance Model.
121       The congestion factors for different traffic volumes to capacity
ratios were derived from L.R. Kadiyali and Associates , Updating Road
User Cost Data, Final Report, Ministry of Surface Transport Roads Wing
and Asian Development Bank, New Delhi, November 1991.
13/       The research findings based on the studies conducted in India
indicated that the distance related congestion cost factor ranged from
one-third to 1001 of the congestion cost factor for fuel.



- 21 -
These s,cc .e values were adjusted upwards. (by 20X) for work tim  trip. and
downards (by 80X) for non-work time tripo, In accordance with the travel tim-
Income relationships found in research studies conducted in India, Brazil and
ReAya. The resulting weighteod travel time values ares
TIme Value
Passenger Type      (SRU per hour)
Motorcycle                   18
Car                          36
Bus, Rail or Truck            7
3.10      8aftngs in  pgagsener Travel Time. The savings In passenger time for
each project component were calculated in a manner similar to the VOC sasving.
The total travel times on the Colombo road network with and without the project
were determinod from the computer modelling exercise, and the times were related
to different vehicle types according to the traffic cemposition on the affected
roads.  The average vehicle occupancy (Table 1.8, Annex 1) was then used to
compute the saving. in time by vehicle category and multiplied by the appropriate
valu, per hour as calculated above. The total value of passenger tim savings
was then calculated by adding the results for all vehicle categories and
summarized on an annual basis for each project component.
3.11      Increased Confestion Durint Construction.  The minor intersection
Improvement work. and inter-linked signalization in Fort would not create major
disturbances to traffic.  However, the construction activities would cause
increased congestion during project implementation especially on Olcott Mawatha
Road and, to a lesser extent, at Maradana Junction. To take into account these
disbenefits during constructions it was assumed that about 402 of total traffic
on Olcott Mbwatha Road and about 20S of total traffic traversing Maradana
Junction would experience additional five minute delays when compared with the
without the project scenarios.  These increased costs of travel time are
expressed as negative benefits In the economic evaluation.
Economic Rates of Return
3.12      The Net Present Value (NMV) and the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) were
computed for each of the project components by discounting all costs and benefits
over the life of the project (1S year.). No residual values were assumed for
rehabilitation works or equipment at the end of the project life.
(a)  Fort Junction Imurovements*   The economic benefits of the Fort
Junction TSM Include savings in vehicle operating and passenger time
costs (Table 12.3, Annex 12)  The most sig.if icant source of benefits
are VOC savings (781), followed by passenger time savings (222).
Passenger time savings are not as large as usual for such improvements
because the additional queuing at junctions outside the Fort Area
partially offsets the improvement In travel time due to reduced
congestion in Fort. The WV (at 101 discount rate) of this component
is estimated at SRs 111 million and the ERR at 452.
(b)  Ol¢ott Mawatha Rebabilitation (includnag Pettah).   The econaomc
benefits of the Olcott Mawatha rehabilitation component similarly



- 22 -
Include savings ln vehicle operating and passenger time costs (Table
12.4, Annex 12). The VOC and passenger time savings ate more or less
equally significant sources of benefits in the early years following
completion of the project, but passenger time savings reverse in later
years to average 652 of total benefits. Passenger time savings are
especially important in later years as traffic congestion would
increase without the project. The VOC savlngs, vhich amount to 352
of the total quantified benefits, are dominated by the improvement in
surface roughness, with some benefits due to the reduction of
congestion.   The NPV (at 101 discount rate) of this component is
estimated at SRs 507 million and the ERR at 282.
(c) _aradana Junction. The economic benefits of the Maradana Junction
rehabilitation also include savings in vehicle operating and
passenger time costs (Table 12.5, Annex 12). The VOC savings are the
most significant source of benefits (601), followed by passenger time
savings (402). The NPV (at 10 discount rate) of this component is
estimated a. SRs 199 million and the ERR at 241.
3.13      Sensitivity Analysis.    The weighted  average ERR  of the three
components is 261. A sensitivity analysis indicates that an increase in capital
costs of 201 vould reduce the ERRs to the 20-401 range and a 201 decrease in
congestion cost savings would h~ave a similar effect on the ERRs. A one-year
delay in construction periods, combined with a 202 increase in project costs,
would result in ERRs ranging from 171 to 391.   Thus the project yields
satisfactory rates of return even under pessimistic scenarios. Table 12.6, Annex
12 shows the results of a sensitivity analysis separately for the Fort, Olcott
Mawatha and Maradana Junction components. The risk of the ERR. declining below
opportunity cost of capital (101) is very low and would require decreases in
benefits of over 502 or cost increases of over 1001.
Unauantified Benefits
3.14      Because  traffic  flows would  be  better  organized  through  the
implementation of signal control at intersections and the channelization of
certain road links, traffic safety hazards would be reduced with the
implementation of the project. Signalization of the intersections would providb
protected pedestrian crossing points that do not presently exist at these
uncontrolled roundabouts. This would reduce pedestrian-vehicle conflicts and,
in turn, the injuries, fatalities, property damage and economic losses related
to these conflicts. Because pedestrian and vehicular traffic volumes are both
highly concentrated in the Fort and Pettah areas, avoidance of thes  economic
losses is considered one of the major benefits of the TS4 program.
3.15      Within the Fort and Pettah areas and at Maradana Junction, the TSM
program would improve the flow of both vehicle and pedestrian traffic resulting
in an improved urban environment. In pc;ticular, this would affect the ease of
pedestrian circulation.   Improved pedestrian access would result in a more
attractive environment for shopping and commercial activities, benefiting a large
number of businesses in Central Colombo as well as the residents living in the
area. The recommended TSM program provides opportunities for further bus
priority treatments and walkway improvements that could significantly increase
the attractiveness of the Fort area as a business, shopping and entertainment
district.



- 23 -
3.16      The TSM program would improve access and clrculation at the Port
railway station and the port, both of which are strategically important transport
centers located within the project's area of influence. Because a significant
portion of Sri Lanka's foreign exchange is earned through commodity trade passing
through the port, efficient land traffic access is crucial.  The improvement of
the Church Street and York Street intersection would have a directly positive
impact on access to both the operations and administrative areas of the port.
Risks
3.17      The main risks of the project aret  (a) capacity  increases and
decreased level of congestion expected as a result of the project may turn out
to be smaller than anticipated; (b) a delay in completion of the project may
increase investment costs; (c) ineffective scheduling of works may lead to
excessive congestion during construction; and (d) the institutional strengthening
and reform objectives to be accomplished with technical assistance provided under
the project may fall ahort of expectations. The risks of delay and ineffective
scheduling are mitigated by the fact that the main investment components are
relatively easy to Implement as they are based on well-established technologies,
and the CMC has already completed similar works successfully on Galle Road and
the Prince of Wales Road. Possible cost overruns, reduced benefits and increased
congestion during construction have been quantified in the economic and
sensitivity analyses which still yielded satisfactory ERRs of 171 or higher.
Moreover, a continuing intensive policy dialogue with GOSL, phased reform
measures, training programs formulated in accordance with absorptive capacity of
the executing agencies, close supervision of civil works, studies and other
technical assistanc, upport provided under the project to implementing agencies
would also substant2.ally reduce the possible risks mentioned above.
IV. AGREEMNTS RCRD AND RECOMMENDATION
Aareements
4.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached and assurances were
obtained from the Government of Sri Lanka on the followings
(a) GCOSL would allocate sufficient counterpart funds needed to implement
the project (pars. 2.13);
(b)  an Operational Action Plan for the period, April 23, 1993 -
December 31, 1998, would be updated annually (para. 2.17);
(c) TSPC and CMC would establish their project accountst CNC and TSPC
would furnish to IDA, within nine months of the end of each year,
audit reports prepared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and
the audit reports would contain a separate opinion where statements
of expenditure have been used as a basis for disbursements (para.
2.20);



- 24 -
(d) TSPC would prepare and forward progress reports to IDA, monitor the
Impact of the TSM program and prepare a Project Completion Report
(par.. 2.22); and
(e) OWL would hold a mid-term review of the project with IDA in December
1995 (par&. 2.22).
4.2       On the basis of the above agreements and assurances, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 14.4 million (US$20 million
equivalent) to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on standard terms
with 40 years maturity.



- 25 -
AN  1
Page 1 of 14
SRI. LANg
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Travel Characteristics in Colombo
1.        The Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area (GCM&) is experiencing a rapid
growth in transport demand and in traffic flows, causing increased congestion on
urban streets with consequent rising vehicle operating coats, accidents and a'r
pollution. This annex documents the trends in passenger travel and traffic in
the GCMA. It is divided into four sections dealing viths (a) passenger travel
demand; (b) road traffic; (a) rail traffic; and (d) Calle Road corridorl1.
A. Passenger Travel Demand
2.        Total Trio Demand:  The total number of passenger trips on the main
transport network in the GCM& is estimated at 7.6 milliun per day or 2.5 billion
per yearJ1. The average number of trips per capita for the urban population of
the GCWA is  bus estimated at 1.9 per day which is above average compared with
other South Asian countries. This estimate was derived from the recorded trips
crossing the cordon lines in the GCMA amounting to 3.9 million per day plus the
452-482 of short trips which did not cross the cordon lines. A more recent
(1992) survey undertaken by the staff of the Transport Studies and Planning
Center (TSPC) confirmed the estimated level of passenger travel being generated
in the GCMA.11
3.        Choice of Nods:  In Sri Lanka, bus travel has historically been the
most popular mode of urban and suburban travel supplemented by rail travel in
four corridors where rail lines exist. The rise of road congestion, lack of
proper bus facLlities, and poor passenger comfort due to bus overloading in the
last ten years has reduced the bus modal share from 80-85X in the early 1980s to
6S-702 in 1992. Tte total trips are broken down by mode as follows:
1/ The most pertinent data in this annex are derived from the 1992 Study of Peak
Hour Travel Characteristics - Colombo City. Final Report, by Kumaraet  and
Ra zaWak, several traffic study and feasibility reports by W.S. AtklnsL
International, snd Volume V of the Transoort Sector Planning Study by Louis
Berner International and W.S. Atkins, 1988.
2/ Based on a 328-day year during the surveys undertaken for the Transport
Sector Planninx Study,
31 Etimate of the TSPC staff based on analysis of the survey results in 1992
for the market areas along Galle Road in Colombo. This is consistent with a
capturo rate of about 55S for the cordon counts which cover major routes into and
out of the city.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 14
eK I~ ~   x m , O 3 T R       0 ,          R Z S
Bus                                             67Z                        692
Private Car/Motorcycles                         28Z                        282
Rail                                             51                         31
oRee:  Study of Peak-Hour Trgavl Charactesristics - Colombo Cit. F          an
Ratnavake, 1992.
Part of this shift away from bus transport has been to private cars and
motorcycles as per capita incomes have increased.   This shift has also
contributed to increased urban road congestion levels.
4.        Trit Purposes: Surveys of passengers have shown that the proportions
of different trip purposes do not vary appreciably by corridor, but they do vary,
as expected, by time of day (e.g., work trips are 661 of total trips in morning
peak periods, 50-572 in evening peak and 15-201 in off-peak periods). Work trips
make up a higher percentage of total trips by rail, and the percentages for other
purposes are uniformly lower. Conversely, work trips by private car are lover
than for the other two modes, and private and official business trips (not home
to work trips) by car are higher and more evenly distributed during the day.
(The percentage of trips for each purpose is given in Tables 1. 1, 1 2 and 1 3 for
bus, rail and private car, showing variations for peak, off-peak and direction
of travel-toward CBDI' or away from CBD.)
B. Road Traffic
S.        As indicated in Figure 1.2, there are five major arteries linking the
CBD to other areas: Prince of Wales Avenue-Central Road-Main Street, Olcott
Mawatha, Maradana Road-Wijewardhana Mawatha, Havelock Road-Gardiner Mawatha and
Galle Road. These arteries carried 20,000 to 60,000 vehicles in both directions
on an average day in 1992 (30-40Z more than in 19$5)V*   However, their
capacities are limited in several areas due to conflicting pedestrian movements
and other traffic obstacles (notably, on Oleott Mawatha which carries a maximum
of 43,000 vehicles per day). Traffic data are not collected on a regular basis,
and therefore, much of the estimates are based on the extensive data collected
during the Tranasort Sector Planu ..a Study (1985-87) and related studies for the
Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) in 1990-1992. The traffic flows on major routes
in the Greater Colombo Area are summarized in Figure 1.2.
6.        The traffic composition in 1985 is shown for selected major roads in
the Colombo Area. Table 1. 4 indicates that about half of the total traffic was
eomposed of cars, vans and motorcycles, while buses made up 15-282 of total
traffic. A sample traffic count taken in 1991 is given in Table 1.5 which shows
that the proportion of motorcycles had greatly increased by 1991 so that cars,
vans and motorcycles made up over 601 of total traffic and the bus share had
declined to 101 of the total on these roads. The traffic composition in the
A/ Central Business District.
5I The traffic volume for a 24 hour period is 1.23 times the traffic in the 12
hour daylight period and the average day represents 11328 of the annual traffic
according to Volume V of the Transport Sector Planning Study.



- 27 -
AIHX I
Page 3 of 14
congested Olcott Maqatha c--ridor is radically different--buses comprise 50 to
60S of the total vehicle a,". Average vehicle occupancy is relatively hi4h
(e.8., 26 and 40 for small and large buses) compared with other countries, as is
shown in Table 1.6. This is partly due to the overloading of buses in peak
hours.
7.        Vehicle speeds are low on most major arteries, as shown in Figure 1.3.
Average peek hour speeds in the range of 15-25 kph are normal in the more
congested streets, and trip times are lengthened even more by stopping times at
congested junctions. These low speeds are found at peak hours for long distances
out of the downtown area on some arteries such as Gall. Road.
8.        Recent journey times and speeds were measured for feasibility studies
in the Fort-Pettah area, Olcott Mawatha and Baseline Road. They showed that a
considerable amount of time was lost in congested areas, particularly for through
trips. According to the 1985 Origin-Destination surveys, 50S of the vehicle
trips into or out of Fort were through trips not having an origin or destination
in Fort. This means that through traffic is creating a significant amount of
congestion in present traffic flow patterns on roads which were originally
designed for local trips.
9.        Road Traffic Growth:  The figures for the overall growth of road
traffic in the Colombo area show wide variations from year to year and by
direction due to the influence of the changing security situation during the
1985-1990 period. Overall traffic increases were measured in the range of 2-3Z
per year between 1986 and 1989 according to CMC cordon counts11, but these rates
were distorted in 1989 by a low traffic flow to the south due to security risks.
This position is supported by traffic growth rates of 4-52 measured in Fort from
1985 to 1990P. Higher traffic growth rates of 61 at the Fort cordon (despite
severe parking constraints in Fort) and up to 91 per year in outlying areas such
as the Randy Road, reflect more normal traffic growth. The future traffic growth
rates for the GCA in the 32-51 range assumed in the Baseline Road Peasibility
Study (1990) and in the earlier Transport Sector Plannint Study (1988), based on
the growth rates experienced in the 1980's, appear to be underestimated. The
latest traffic counts taken in 1992 for the Baseline Road Feasibility Study
showed that during a seven year period from 1985 to 1992, the overall traffic
growth rate was 61 per year, and on some sections, the growth rate had reached
as high as 151 per year (see Figure 1.4). These higher growth rates may reflect
a more accurate trend for future demand, given the past and future expected
growth patterns of the GCMA11, although capacity constraints will limit growth
on selected roads.
10.       Motor Vehicle Fleet:  The total vehicle fleet in Sri Lanka (most of
which operates  in Colombo)  grew steadily through the  1980s and recently
6/ As reported in the Olcott Mawatha Rehabilitation Feasibility Study, W. S.
Atkins, Internation, 1991.
7/ from Initial Traffic Study of Fort and Pettah. Colombo. Sri Lanka, W. S.
Atkins, International, 1990.
S/ It should also be noted that the traffic growth rate on Colombo roads from
1979 te 1984 (i.e., before the advent of the security problems) was in excess of
51 per year.



- 28 -
A 1
Page 4 of 14
accelerated from 1988 to the present (s.e Table 1.7)V. The average growth rate
has been 13.62 per year for the fleet since 1974, as a whole, growing more than
twice as fast as the country's GDP (see table below). Over the last ten years,
motorcycles hsve led the way with 21.22 average growth, followed by buses and
dual purpose vehicles (vans and pickups) which registered about 112 growth, and
cars and trucks--about 5.52. New motorcycle registrations grew an average of 302
per year from 1985 to 1990 and dual purpose vehicles (vans and pickups) hsv
ballooned since 1980, averaging almost 302 per year, while the other vehile
registrations have grown substantially only in the last 2-3 years. The deeline
in the growth rate for trucks is due primarily to a rationalization as larger
vehicles are taking a bigger share of the total than small trucks.
GROWTH   OF  VEHICLE   POPULATION:  1974 - 1991
Motorcycles/Tricycles           46.12         21.22         26.72
Cars and Taxis                   4.5Z          4.82          5.32
Dual Purpose/Pickup             20.22         15.92         11.02
Buses                           12.72         10.62         10.82
i Trucks                         7.22          6.32          3.42
Total Fle1t               13.6          12
11.       If no security problems develop, vehicle ownership is expected to
continue to grow as a function of real per capita income growth, at a rate faster
than the growth rate of real GDP. Future GDP growth in the range of 3-52 per
year is expected for the country, and its impact on the CMA, which accounts for
40Z-502 of the GDP, wvil be greater than average. Consequently, vehicle fleet
growth could be expected to continue at the current high rates, although private
cars and trucks may grow faster and buses more slowly than in the past.
12.       Future Cagacitv Constraints: The result of future traffic growth wil
necessarily be more congestion on the Colombo road system. Forecast bottlenAck
areas (Plow/Capacity of 0.9 or greater) are shown in Figure 1.5 and Table 1.8 for
1996.  In reality, some of the lower ratios shown in this figure will be much
higher as the traffic from congested roads would overflow onto lesser used roads.
13.       Parklan Spaces  It was estimated in 1985 that 3,300 vehicles eore in
circulation and that 1,800 vehicles were parked in Fort during the peak period,
including 15 motorcycles. Since there are approximately 1,700 parking spacs
in Fort, there was consequently a shortage of parking spaces amounting to 202 or
250 spaces In 1985. It is reasonable to assume that the shortsge has increased
by another 20-252 since tben. This increase would have occurred despite the high
percentage (about 602) of the vehicles occupying parking spaces are for short
term (staying lses than 2 hours). The result is that vehicles park axtremly
J/ According to the TSPC, figures adjusted for vehicles dropping out of the
active fleet.



- 29 -
Page 5 of 14
close together or on footpaths.  The limited parking stock also encourages
vehicles to cruise around the CBD whil passengers are doing their business.
C. Railway Traffic
14.       Railway traffic is concentrated in four rail lines of the Sri Lanka
Railway (SLR), as shown in Figure 1.1. These Include three principal ccomuter
lines (Puttalam Line north of Colombo, Main Line toward Randy and the Gallo Line
along Gallo Load to the South), and a smaller lin  Into the Relani Valley to the
Southeast which was recently upgraded to the same gauge. Total coaumter traffic
in 1991 is estimated at 113,000 trips per day or 37 zillion passenger trips per
year, making up 3S of the passenger trips into and out of Colombo from the
suburban areaso'. Au additional 13,000 trips per day came to Colombo on season
tickets from outside tho suburban area on a regular basis and are counted as
Ocommuter trips by the railway. The distribution of these trips become, more
concentrated toward the city center as shown in Figure 1.6.
15.       8volution of Rail Traffic:  From the peak rail travel in 1979, when
the railways accounted for 211 of total passenger traffic, to 1990, there has
been a decline in rail traffic. This was largely due to the railway's inability
to cope with the upsurge in transport demant that followed the liberalization of
the economy in the late 1970s while private bus operators were able to capture
a large share of the passenger transport market as a result of import
liberalixation. (See Table 1.9 which shows the decline of rail traffic in the
Colombo area from 1979 to 1990.) In 1991, SLR was able to procure much needed
comuter rail equipmeat with which to ehance the quality and quantity of its
service. The result was an increase of 122 in rail commuter traffic in 1991 over
1990--despite fare increases--to its highest level since the early 1980s as
relatively high load levels have been maintained in the peak hours and the more
frequent suburban service has been extended further out. As the increasing road
congestion in the GMCA creates pressure for more rail ridership, the prospects
for Increasing the railway market share for commuter travel are quite good. The
SLR, after restructuring, plans to calibrate its fare structure so as to attract
bus passengers to the railways in the congested rail corridor as a matter of
Policy.
D. Gallo Road Corridor Servlice Cog=arison
16.       The train frequency currently available in the Colombo area on the
Golle Line varies from 10 to 34 train pairs per day from the edge of the suburban
area to the center (see Table 1.10).  This frequency determines the railway's
ability to meet demand. In the areas with lower frequency rail service, the
parallel bus lines are more comptitive than rail service during most of the day
due to greater availability. Comparisons of rail and bus average travel times
are given In Table 1.11 for the Gallo Road corridor.
17.       The choice of mode In the Galle Road corridor was studied in the
Transoort Sector Planlng -Study through an attitude survey of Galle Road
travellers. The results showed that cost was the most important reason for
choosing rail and that convenience was the most reason for choosing bus travel.
(Sae Tables 1.12 and 1.13.)
)gI Thls percentage rises to 13-192 for the Galle Road corridor.



- 30 -
- 30                  ~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 6 of 14
TABLE I1.s ANALYSIS or TBUP PURPOSS -:S (1992)
GROUaP             A' *Sn  ',',+UO.. ;Off .   .-..At,L, 0_t-   P KI
~~ - -     
Social, Shopping &           3.5      8.6   11.6       8.1    19.9     8.4
Other Personal Bus
Trips                                 -
Re¢., Med. & Official       13.3    56.0   27.4    11.2    41.9    19.1
Bus.  Trips--
Education/Trainiug          10.6      6.9   10.2       8.5     9.8    12.5
Trips                                 -       -                -
Work & School Trip.         72.8    28.5   50.8    72.2    28.4    60.0
OURCE:  Studv of Peak Hour Travel C naraterstic.Co1oo                     a
Ratnavake, 1992
TABLE 1.2: ANALYSIS or TRIP PURPOSES - RAIL (1992)
ns~~~~~ ,                                  :,  -  *-
-             -~~~~~~~~~~~~g*    .  -  -
Social, Shopping &          4.8    16.0    14.6    21.9    22.6        7.5
Other Person Bus. Trips                 _.
Ree., Med., & Officical     2.1    26.4    20.8       8.7    18.0       6.7
Bus. Trips
EducationlTraining          6.1      3.8      2.1    14.1      4.8      5.3
Trips                            _
Work & School Trips        87.1    53.8    62.5    45.3    41.5    80.5
SOURCE:  Stud, of Peak Hour Triavel CharacteristiCs, Coloibolt, Ma
Ratnavake, 1992
TABtE 1.3s 3PRIVATE VEHICLES TRAVEL BY TRIP PURPOSE BY LOCATION. 1992
(MORNING PEAK TO CBDQ')
Work                      60.7           53.8          46.1
School                    14.3           14.0           6.9
Personal Business         24.9           31.2          44.2
Educationall
Training                    .0             .0           2.9
SOURCE  Study of Peak Hour        Characteristic Co    City.
/ PR - Peak
./ CBD - Central Busines District



TABLI  1.4:  TRAJFIC FLOWS AT SELECTCD CORDONS IN  GREATER COLOIBO. 1985 (TWO-_AY. 12 HOR   IEEKDAYI
FMR CORDONS
Main Street                            11,700         2,150            2,700             2,200        2,350     1,050   1,650          100 ' 23,900
Olcott mavath a                         7,900         1,600             1,900            1,750       11,350    2,300   1,250           IS0    28,200
Lakebouse Bridge                       16,600         1,500            3,250             2,425        6,400     2,200   1,600          100 ' 34,075
Centre Road, Galle Face                15,62S         1,175            2,900               970        3,440     1,410      870          60    26,430
TOTAL CORDOM                     51,825         6,425            10,750            7,345        23,540    6,960   5.370          410   112,625
CTRRP IF   IC 10ITORING                                                                                                                         -
COlUOll                                                                                                                                    l4
Sri Ramanathan Hawatha                  3,300           250              900               950          900       400      700          50    7,500
Srlmnava Saadarmayaak. Mswatha          8,850         1,300            2,200             3,250        5,200     1,950   3,000          250    26,000
Maliawatte Road                         8,400           450             2,000            2,100        1,100       650   2,050          100    16,950
Basellne Road                           3,850           300             1,400            3,100        1,350     1,100   1,550          150 '  12,850
maradana Road                           8,600           900            2,350             3,300        4,050       950      950         100 ' 21,100
Ward Place                              8,500         1,050             1,750            1,850        2,150    1,050       600          50 '  16 950
Horton Place                           11,B50           800            1,650             1,200          200        150     400          S0o   16,250
Independence Avenue                    13,450           750            2,800             2,400        2,500     1,250   1,250           5o    24,S00
Sir Brnest de Silva Havathe            14,400           650             1,9S0            1,200          150        150     600          S0    19,200
Galle Road                             15,750         1,800            3,150             1,850        4,700     1,800   1,100           0o   30,200
I                                 ,        _      ,                            .                         , ~~~~~I 
TOTAL CORDON                     96,950         8,250            20,150           21,200       22,300    9,450   12,20           900, 191,500
0
13/ CTRRP -OA Financed



TABLE 1 * 5:TRAFFIC FLOW ON CNC CORDMC
Negaubo Rosd              2,275       275     1,475        875     675      150      350      -0- !  6,075
Kandy Road                 1,500      225       950        475     525      150      400       25    4,250
Avissavella Road             450      225       600        750     125       75      225      -O-    2,450
Kollonnawa Road              700      275       525        550     175       25       75      °-O!  2,325
Rotte Road                3,150       225      1100        325      25      -0-      250      -0- a  5,075
Hish Level Road           2,150       250     1,025        300     425      125      175      -0-.  4,450
Dutugemznu Street          1,550      175       800        175     125       50       75      -0-    2,950               a
Galle Road (Dehiwels)     2,525       400     1,000        350     675      100      300      -0-    5,350
M ,M
TOTAL CORDON        14,300   2,050       7,475     3,800   2,750      675    1,850       25   32,925
PERCENT                432       62        23?       12X       82      2Z       62       0t
SOURCEZ Baseline Road Feasibility Stpda4, 1991.
141  CIC - Colombo MMn icpal Council.  To-way, two houIr midday peak in 1991 - One day count.                        4



- 33 -
Page 9 of 14
TABLE 1. 6:s AVERAGE VEBICLE OCCUPANCY
(BASED ON WO-WAY 1LOWSI
Part
Cordon       1.95      2.66      1.86      1.32     18.47   -0-          2.61
Cordon       2.29      2.45      1.80      1.92    21.65    -0-          2.53
.        ~..                             -.m
Cordon       3.3       -3.06   -0-    I-0-          22.54 1 40.40 1 2.89
SOURCE:  ODA Financed Colombo Traffic and Road Rebabilitation Proiect, W. S. ATKINS*
198516 and Consultant's surveys for the Transport Sector Planning Study, (1988).



- 34 -
Page 10 of 1k
TABLE 1.2s ACTIVE VEHICLE POLULATION - SRI LANRA
1X'~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~             ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X S. tr
1: YEAR= -CAR TAXI -PURPOSE      BUSIS *. TIC!CLE.   . ?RUCKS   . TOTAL..
4-W-LDRI ________ _                           -
1974      49,381       2,609       4,110         638     17,118      66,498
1975      48,691       2,386       4,307         984     16,057      64,749
1976      48,987       2,314       4,570       1,631     15,205      64,192
1977      50,054       3,743       5,372      2,832      14,842      64,897
1978      53,953       5,727       5,952      7,686      16,761      70,714
1979      60,739       6,872       9,473      12,220     20,178      80,917
1980      63,225      11,842      10,386     43,691      26,033      89,258
1981      65,408      16,117      11,564     58,370      30,304      95,711
1982      68,318      20,796      12,446     66,182      31,877    100,194
1983      72,1h       24,345      13,774     78,424      34,761    106,925
1984      75,097      29,070      14,682     93,132      39,131    114,228
1985      79,444      33,000      16,300    114,954      43,400    122,844
1986      84,895      39,255      19,298    141,517      46,250    131,145
1987      90,499      41,889      21,447    167,566      48,704    139,203
1988      89,139      44,916      23,194    196,547      50,711    139,849
1989      94,565      47,029      24,879    261,772      52,681    147,247
1990     103,387  _ 51,186        26,859    340,372      54,954    158,341
1991     104,109      58,660      31,546    400,173      56,037    160,146
SOURCE:   Consultant's estimates based on Transport Sector Planning Studv,  1988
and data from the Department of Motor Traffic & Ceylon Petroleum Corporation
adjusted to eliminate vehicles going out of series.



- 35-                                   AM  I
Page )1 of 14
TA! 1. Si  5CA8T FLS= AD SIME CM=Y J4
_________  AT SELECTED COIDOIS ALINS - 1996
~. .~ 0  ~4~5'j"   _A~R~O.S  I
R:K gP  Rd
U. 
CORDO. I
Negombo Rd
Reandy Rd                            6825                9125               1.34       1.14 - 1.57
Avis.wefla Rd
Kolonawa Rd                          4455                2200               0.49       0.42 - 0.58
Kotte Rtd                            4820                3910               0.57       0.49 - 0.67
Navala Rd
High Levi Rd                         5500                4345               0.79       0.67 * 0.92
Dutugenmum Z-
Gall. Rd                             5745                5650               0.98       0.84 - 1.15
CORDONS
Sri Rausnatban
Eavatha                              2235                 570               0.26       0.22 - 0.30
Sirimava
Bandaranayak. Vk*                    4060               6445                1.59       1.35 - 1.84
Baseline Road*                       5275               3800                0.72       0.61 - 0.84
'SUBTOTAL                        9335              10245                1.10       0.94 * 1.28
Haradana Rd
ward Place
Horton Pltae                        10000                6980               0.70       0.59 - 0.82
union place                          1720                2485               1.44       1.23 - 1.69
Independence Av
Sir Ernest da Siava Mv
Duplication Rd
Ca11. R-oad                         14450     -09                           0.56       0.48 -0.66
RAILWAY SCEEUSLIE
Ceutre Rd
Gal"e face
Lake Use Iridge                      8S30               8705                1.02       0.87 - 1.19
Naradana Bridge                      5585                5015               0.90       0.76 - 1.05
Beeslia Road                         4355               3150                0.72       0.62 - 0.85
NOME:   1)  AUl capacities are based on 1200 PCUs per hour per standard lawe.
IL) All flows are two-way.
111) flasliae Read is aesind to have a dual carziAge way.
SOURCE: Consultant'sa calculations for the Transport Sector Planning Study, 1986.
15/ PCU - Passenger Car Uni.t
1j1 CIC - Colombo Miuicipal Couuctl
171 CTRRP -   Colcobo T-raffic and Road Rehabilitation Project, W.S   Ak 1
1983/6.



1979 (PEAK YEAR)               42                   47
1985                           24                   36 _
1986                           25                   36
1987                           24                   36
1988                           22                   33
1989 (SECURIlTY                21                   25
PROBLEM)}
1990                           35                   33                                                                                              1
1991              ,          , 33                   37
Source: Sri Lanka Railways.
TABLE 1.10: (A)  SCIEDULED TRAIN SERVICE IN 1992
.i  T5,        i                     w U                   , IrwAL&X L-                     A
Colmbo-Ragea         48 (6 W)   Polgahawela-         1    Regma-Iatunayate   13 (3 LID)  Colombo-Mt.            34 (3 LD)
Hahbo    ______________                                  Lavinia
Rasama-V±7aagoda      34 (3 L)                             Katuayake-          10 (3 LD)  Mt. LavinU-           30 (3 LO)
Negambo                         Horatawa
Vlyansoda-Nirigama   25 (3 LD)                             Nemo.bo-Lunuaela     5 (3 LD)  Moratswa-Pana&ra   26 (3 LO)
Nttlma-mbipuaea   la (3 la)                                Luvela-              4 (3 LD)  Panadura-Kalutara   14 (3 LD)
______________________________  ______________________    Vattandly a                                                 .                           t
Amblpuso-             15 (3 LD)                            lattandlya-Chilmv    3 (3 LD)  Kalutera-Alutpma    10 (3 LO)
Pol4ahawela. 
bav.R--....buk    2                                                                     . ;tg.m.---a 113
SOURCEt  Sri Lanka Railways                                                                                                                  .c



- 37 -                        ANV=  I
Page 13 of 14
TABLE  1.10: (8) NUMMA OF TRAINS STOPMPNG AT SELECTED GAM& R      COD CORRIDOR
STATIONS BEEEN 6s00 AM. AND 12 NOON
_ _ _                     * v-     .    =s. - -i 
ERO           VAL  '.i   NOR  RA  .MTf  DE,,N  'L   Z o  - t'i>f';.BAM9; 
S~ - _ _  - _ __
6s00-7:00    1     4     6    5    4    4    4        4
7:00-8sOO    1     5     6    3    4    4    3        6
8s00-90OO   2      1     2    3    3    3    4        4
9:00-10:00    1     3     3    3    3    2    2        1
10:00-11:00    0     3     2    0    1    1    1        2
1l100-12:00    1     2     2    2    2    2    2        2
TOTAL       6     18   21   16   17   16   16    19
SOURCEs Sri Lanka Railway Timetable, 1986.
TABLE 1.*11: PROPORTIONS (Z) OF TRIPS BY NODE TO SELECTED DESTINATIONS
K - -
Fort                          1         17.8     30.0               31.4
Pettah                        2          9.7      6.2  _         __   8.4
D.R.Wijewardena Mawatha       5          7.2      14.2              12.8
Parsons Road/Slave Island     6          6.0      13.7              14.3
Central Area SubTotal                   40.7     64.1               66.9
Rollupitiya                   7          9.3      5.7                5.9
B.mbalapitiya                 8          6.7      3.2                4.2
TOTAL                         56.7     73.0               77.0
Source: Consultant's Survey.
TABLE 1.12:  INTERVIEWEES' REASONS Ft  110DE CHOICE
X ~ ~   00                      __c_______________________________
'      40      o    :l  -SAu                     . ..1 
_ .1     I    I   {    I   (0.03) )0 06)  -  Io o 6  | (  (0.07)  |    11
. 920 T~~~~~~t                160      42        4          40         1 1S7
(0.70)  (0.0)  (0. 17)  (O."4)               (0.04)     (3.46
Numbers shown in brackets - Proportion of Interviewees giving response.
Source: Consultant's survey for the Transport Sector Planning Study, 1988.



- 38 -                         AM    I
Pa p 14 of 14
TABLE 1,13:  COMPARISON OF MODAL FARES AND JOURNEY TIMES
ALONG THE GALLE ROAD CORRIDOR (1985)
Ralutara South        5.90     6.00      6.00    95       104
Panadura              3.80     4.00      4.00    66        74
Noratuwa              2.70     3.50      3.00    49        54
Ratmalana (Rail)      2.10                        35
Golumad_ma (Bus)               3.00      2.50              44
Mr. Lavinia           1.90     2.75      2.50    31        34
Dehiwela              1.40     2.50      2.50    26        29
Wellawatte            1.20     2.25      2.00    20        24
Bambalapitiya         1.10     2.00      1.50    16        14
Sources  Sri Lanka Railways, Sri Lanka Transport Board (Public Bus) and
Department of Private Omnibus Transport.



- 39 -
Page 1 of 8
COLONBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Institutional Framework for the Urban Sector
A. National InstitutionJ
1.        The Ministry of Local Government  (MLG)  has responsibility  for
controlling and guiding the development of urban areas. A number of Departments,
Authorities, Boards, Units and Funds report directly to the Ministry.   In
addition, a number of other agencies under other Ministries report directly to
the Prime Minister. A brief description of each agency is as follows:
(a) Degartment of Local Government (DLG)s   Directly responsible for
assisting and guiding Urban Local Authorities (ULAs) in the fors of
grants, training, technical assistance, auditing and inspection.
(b) Decartment of Town and Country PlannIna (DTCP): DTCP was established
in 1946 to oversee town and country planning throughout the island.
Although employing a large number of technically qualified staff, its
responsibilities have gradually been eroded. Its activities today
relate to urban planning in areas not covered by the Urban Development
Act, i.e., the planning of new towns and GCa Udava or "village
awakening" settlements. The department also undertakes civic design
projects on behalf of nLAs if requested.
(c) Urban Devegloment Authoritv (UDA): The UDA powers are contained in
the Urban Development Act of 1978, which requires the Authority to
formulate: (i) development plans; (ii) action plans of short-term
projects; (iii) capital programs to implement (i) and (ii); (lv)
real property development plans, implement them and charge rents for
buildings it develops and owns; (v) land use policies and planning
structure; and (vi) provide technical planning assistance to other
Goverment agencies.
2.        The UDA is governed by a Board composing of a Chairman nomiuated by
the Minister and senior officers from Ministries of Local Government, Finance,
Lands, Industries, Transport, Health, Education, Irrigation, and Highways. Also
included are the Director of Town and Country Planninag, the Chairman of MNDA, two
members representing Local Authorities and two members with specialised knowledge
of urban development matters.  Some of its powers are devolved to ULAs but
ultimately urban planning for the Councils is directd by UDA. UDA's development
activities have to be commerically viable. But its dual role as planner and
developer could result in conflict between its interest in development and its
duties as a planning authority.



- 40 -
,ANNX 2
Page 2 of 8
3.        The Ministry of Housina and Construction (MNC):
(a)  Natlonal Housint Deiartment (NHD): Responsible for the administration
of the Rent Control Act.   Its main activities relate to rent
collection from properties owned by the department.
(b)  The National Housint Development Authority (NHDA):  Established in
1979 to formulate housing development projects in both urban and rural
areas. It is the main implementing arm of the Government's housing
programs, currently the 1.5 Million Houses Program.   The NHDA is
funded directly by the Government with foreign assistance in respect
of specific projects. It receives some income from the lease rent of
housing plots.
(c) The Central Environment Authority (CEA): CEA was established under
the National Environmental Act No. 47 of 1980 to make provision for
the protection and management of the environment and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.   Iv originally had no
powers of enforcement. Laws have recently been ammended to allow C$A
to issue licenses to industries, and set crite.ia for the discharge
of effluent to natural waterways and the atmosphere. All new projects
are now required to submit an initial environmental impact assessment
report. Functions and powers allow offices of the CIA to inspect any
industry site or factory and to declare any area as an
"Environmentally Sensitive Area." In addition, the CU has powers to
prepare Action Plans and to levy penalties through courts.
CIA's functions in regard to Urban Areas are those set out above and
to prepare guidelines and standards for the protection of the visual
environment, pollution control, and directions to ULA on matters
regarding public hygiene and sanitation. When an application is made
to the UDA for the erection of a factory, UDA refers it to CEA for its
observations and concurrence.
(d)  National Water Suvplv and Drainaae Board  (NWSDB):   NWSDB was
established in 1975 to take over responsibility for all urban end
rural water supply and urban sewerage schemes. ULAs are generally
responsible for distribution and operation of water supply systems and
collection of payments. However, increasingly this function is being
taken over by NWSDB. The NWSDB is divided operationally into eight
regions with officers at local levels. However, technical support and
assistance remains centrally located in Colombo.
(e) The Common Amenities Board (CAB): CAB was established in 1973 under
NEC to provide basic amenities for low income areas in urban centers
and to maintain tenement gardens and other housing units. CAB is
responsible for the provision of toilets, water taps and environmental
improvements. Technical assistance to carry out these improvements
is provided by the Slum and Shanty Upgrading Unit of UDA. The work
is carried out through private contractors. CAB now has extended
powers to generate, finance and construct more than just the basic



- 41 -
A-L    2
Page 3 of 8
amenities.  Funds are obtained mostly from foreign donor agencies
including NORAD, USAID, and Save the Children fund (UK).
(f) State Enaineerin= Cornoration ISEC): SEC was established to undertake
the design and construction of major Government projects for NHC and
other Government departments.
(g) Building Materials Cornoration (BMC): BMC was established in 1972 to
supply building materials to MEC, other Government Departments and to
the private sector.
(h) Government Owned Business Undertakina of Colombo Commerical Com-anv
(Eniineerina Ltd.)s This company was set up under NHC to undertake
all aspects of engineering construction and automobile maintenance for
the Ministry.
(i)  Loan Fundss  The Local Loans and Development Fund (LLDF) and the
National Housing Fund are adminis ared by NBC and provide funds for
the development of municipal infi structures, services and utilities
and for housing construction. LLDF has been dormant for a number of
years following problems with ULA repayments.
4.        In addition, the following institutions play an important role in the
urban sector:
(a) The Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka, established under the Ministry
of Mahaweli Development in 1978, is the largest development program
in the country with the dual aims of supplying irrigation water to the
dry zone and providing power generation.   Projects are spatially
distinct and funded under several different programs. One of these
has been a resettlement program of displaced farmers and mi8rants to
Mahaweli area. Urban service centers have also been developed to
serve the agricultural sector, with the emphasis on agro-processing
industry and the service sector to provide employment for the second
genoration of settlers.
(b) The Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) was established in 1978
as an autonomous body directly responsible to the President.  Its
objectives are to broaden the economic base of the country, generate
economic development, promote foreign investment and foster the
establishment  of  commercial  enterprises  in  the  country.    Its
activities are confined to an area north of Colombo identified in the
Colombo Master Plan (formulated in the 1970s) as a region of growth
potential (e.g..  development of the Katunayaka and Biyagama Export
processing;. It is responsible for administering Town and Country
Planning in this area.
(c) The Land Reclamation and Develonment CorOoration (LRDC) was set up
under the Ministry of Lands and Land Development with prime
responsibility for reclaiming marshy lands, particularly in urban
areas. In addition, it is responsibile for major canals and drainage



- 42 -
Page 4 of 8
into these canals.   UDA, DTCP, MOB and the Regional Development
Authority are represented on the Board of LRDC.
(d) Ministrv of Rehabilitation and Reconstruction (HRR) was established
in 1987 to coordinate. the reconstruction of areas affected by
terrorist activities in the Northern and Eastern Provinces.
Approximately US$660 million has been offered by international lending
and aid agencies for use by HRR.
(e) The Reaional Develonment Authority is responsible for the coordination
of projects which concentrate on regional development.
(f) Infrastructure Line Amencies and Ministries: In addition to the above
agencies, a number of line agencies and ministries are responsible for
the provision of services, infrastructure and utilities to the urban
areas. The major organizations responsible, and services which they
provide and maintain are listed belows
Ministry of Education              Construction and maintenance of
schools
Ministry of Higher Education       Construction and maintenance of
college and universities
ministry of Health                 Construction and maintenance of
hospitals and other health facilities
Dept. of Telecommunciation         Installations and maintenance of
telecommunications system
Ceylon Electricity Board           Generation and transmission of
electricity and installation and
maintenance of distribution systems in
some ULAs
Lanka Electricity Company          Installation and maintenances of
electricity distribution systems in
some ULAs
Road Development Authority         Construction and maintenance of main
roads within UlAs.
B. Colombo Nunictial Council
S.        The Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) is going through organizational
restructuring under the ODA-funded institutional development program (IDP),
formulated in 1990 to improve management capabilities of the CMC in general and
the road construction and maintenance capabilities of the Municipal Engineer's
Departmont  (ME)  in particular.   At the heart of the IDP has been the
reorganization of the ME which is by far the largest (80S of CMC work force) and
the most important department of CMC. More recently in 1992, the IDP has been
expanded to include technical assistance to the CMC's Treasury Department.



- 43 -
aMX 2
Page S of 8
Structure of the CMC
6.        The CMC's 14 departments had been organized under four main groups:
* Environment and Health * public health
* health curative
* veterinary health
* indigenou. medicine
* Social Services         * public assistance
* public library
* sports and recreation
* fire service
* Engineering             * engineering services and
management of stores
* Internal Support        *  treasury
Services               *  secretary (administration and
personnel)
* rates assessment
* training and development
* legal
7.        These fourteen departments are being consolidated into six
Directorates snd a Secretariat. Attachments 1 and 2 show the reorganized
structures of the CMC and the Treasurer's Department.
S.        The ME's department is responsible for all engineering services and
comprises ten Divisions vhose functions are as followst
* Water Supply            provides a service to the National Water
Supply and Draiuage Board in the
maintenance of the potable water system
and in the provision of connections to
the network
* Drainage                maintenance of the surface water sad
sewerage network, including the operation
and maintenance of 13 pumping stations
  Solid Waste            collection, disposal of 650 tons of solid
vaste daily and research into methods of
Improving the service
*  City Planning          development planning and control through
building regulations and processing of
applications for new structures and
extensions
* Works                   road and building rehabilitation and
maintenance



- 44 -
Page 6 of 8
* Traffic and Design      traffic studies and planning, highway,
drainage, structural and architectural
design
* Projects                planning, managing and controlling
development projects
* Workshops               production of items required for
maintenance of infrastructure In Colombo
and maintenance of the CMC fleet of
vehicles, plant and equipment
* Administration          office, personnel and welfare services
* Accounts                purchasing and financial accounting for
the department
9.        The Works Division of the HE undertakes construction of new buildings
and roads, and rehabilitation/maintenance of existing structures and 50 km of ,A*
and "B" class roads on behalf of the Road Development Authority (RDA), 60 km of
other major roads and 370 km of tertiary roads under the CEC's jurisdiction.
10.       Maintenance and rehabilitation of "A" and "B" class roads is the
responsibility of the Central Road Maintenance Unit (CRMU) of tha Works Division.
Routine maintenance of all other roads is undertaken by six District Engieers
(one per District). The CRMU has a total of about 700 staff and work gangs
operating out of a special depot at Madampitiya, controlled by the Depot
Engineer.
Institutional Develoyment Proaram
11.       The reorganization of the CMC is intended to achieve:
(a) balanced distribution of operational responsibilities;
(b) clearly defined functional relationships under the system of lIne
management;
(c)  delegation of powers to senior staff for policy and strategic
development;
(d)  day-to-day management of the CMC to be separated from long-term
planning; and
(e)  non-line support services are to be concentrated in a single unit.
12.       As a part of this restructuring effort, technical and management
training centers have been established to train CMC personnel&L, and a twinn4xg
agreement between CMC and Stafforshire Country Council in the UK has beon
concluded to train the Treasury and Municipal Assessor's departments.J In
addition, ODA financed the procurement road maintenance equipment and the
/        Under ODA' s Colombo Roads Rehabilitation project (CRIP).
at        Under IDA's Municipal Management Project (Cs 1697 CE).



- 45 -
ANLa
Page 7 of 8
construction of a depot, equipped with plant to produce hot mixed material,
concrete paving slabs, curbs and water drainage pipes and laboratory to test all
road materialss, Including concrete cubes and hot bituminous mixes and cores taken
from compacted road surfaces. These facilities are providing hands-on training
to equipment operators, mechanics and other engineers.
13.       CMC management is fully committed to Implement the IDP Action Plan
formulated based on Colombo Municipal Councils  A StrateaM  for Development
(1991). Some of the changes which are either being made or planned for execution
includes
(a) rationalization of the MO's department organizational structure, based
on clear functional requirements and delegated responsibilities, with
specified limits of authority;
(b) clarification of the legal responsibilities of officer;
(c)  Improved  organization  and  control through  the  introduction  of
policies, a system of line management and the deflnition of roles and
responsibilities through job descriptions;
(d)  creation of an in-house training department including two training
centers for management and technical and supervisory trainings
(a)  introduction of computer based management information systems to
provide essential foedback, e.g*, a manpower database and solid waste
management systems;
(f)  introduction of computer technology to facilitate planning and
control;
(g) improved inter-departmental coordination and communications through
the introduction of written work procedures and regular management
meetings to discuss prog:,<s, performance and problems;
(h)  Improved organization and maintenance of the fleet through the
creation of an equipment secretariat and the rehabilitation of the
Municipal Workshops;
(i)  improved budgeting and cost and quality control;
(j) rationalization of the organizational structure and manning of the
Treasury and Assessors departments in light of CEC's decisions to
contract out services and increase levels of productivity;
(k)  preparation  of  routine  and  capital  expenditure  budgets  and
departmental and overall cash flow forecastes
(1)  monitoring of financial performance agaitst budget;
(a)  development of financial planniga and cost control systems for the
Treasury, Assessors and other operating departments;



- 46 -
AM2
Page a of a
(n) introduction of management planning and control sy.rems and
techniques.
(o) computerixation of financial systems operated by the Treasury and
other departments, and standardization of hardware and software used
by a11 departments;
(p) computerized tellers to issue receipts and allocate revenues to
nominated accounts; and
(q)  linked  personal  computers  to  coordinate  rates  accounting  and
assessment among the Treasury, Assessor's and City Planning
departments so that the property value data base is automatically
updsted and disseminated promptly.
Achievements
14.      An assessment of the progress made under the IDP was made in 1992 by
CMC and ODA.  It was concluded that while much work remains to be done, a
significant degree of success had been achieved in each of the areas outlined in
para 9 above. Most progress was made in those areas where: (a) there had been
continuous consultant support; (b) CHC had accepted "ownership" of the problem.
and demonstrated commitment by devoting time and allocating scarce resources to
the program; and (c) the Council had the authority to initiate changes.
15.      A good example of tangible achievements is CRMU's Improved performance
in executing road maintenance and rehabilitation works and operating and
maintaining plant and equipment. CRM1 has demonstrated its capabilities to
execute good quality works under the CRRP (Galle and Prince of Wales Road.).
Similarly, CRMU has made significant progress in materials testing and quality
control work.
16.       By contrast,  limited progress was made  in those areas wheres
(a) ownership of the problems was difficult to establish; (b) the line management
system was infringed, for example, in asnpower and work planning and cost
control; (c) there was a strong cultural conflicts and (d) CMC did not have full
control over its resources. The examples ares implementation of unplanned or
non-funded Government initiated projects (e.g., Gem Udawa, various ceremonial
occasions, and failure to obtain reimbursements from the Western Provincial
Council (PC) for the costs incurred from executing the PC-approved development
projects). Since the IDP is still under implementation (completion in 1994), its
achievements will be assessed again, with the objectire of defining further
technical assistance needs.
Attachments: 1 - CMC Organization Chart
2 - Treasury organization Chart



-47-             ~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
47              ~~~~~~~~Attachment 1.
W~~~ IXii iI
iI    Ii                        Iii;
jiEW~
9ll lioSll1g



-48-                          ANNEX 2
Attachmet 2
.1
d~~~
I]             ii                       111               i 
Lg1111



- 49 -
Pass I of 8
CO    O MM  T      fT PROJRCT
Sri La&k RaLWavestructiweum 11as
introduction
1.        Sri Laska Railway (SU.) is the national railway of Sri Lankat  its
network consists of approzinately 1,500 km of broad gauge lines and 43 km of
narrow ggaUg 14ies, and it employees approximately 17,000 persons." la 1990,
its passenger revenues (Including parcels) were SRs 444 million and freight
revenues were UR 203 mlllion, with net operating loss of SR 423 million. After
interet payments on debts, SRL's net loss wao SRs 1,483 million in 1990. Total
pass-k have been about two billion and total freight ton-ka, 200 million in the
past few years.
2.        The major problems of the SLR have been as follows:
3.        Ormanix lonal S&MIgturs. As a Government department staffed by civil
servants, the SL is excessively buroeucratic, highly centralized and too
cumbersome for effective decision making. SRL management has little authority
to make key decisions (e.g., on hiring, staffing, tariff setting, provision of
service, investment decisions) thAt aro critical to off icient functioning of the
railway. Thus SL cannot concentrate on managing the railway in a competitive,
commercial way.  Instead, SL. has to cope with political interference, low
tariffs, redundant or unqualified staff, inability to discontinue services on
uneconomic line. (where the alternative of bus transport exists) and tine-
consuming budgetary processes to obtain required funds to purchase spare parts
to rspair Immobilsed locomotives. Loss of capable staff further complicates an
already difficult situation.
4.        Lack of a Coherent Policy Pramework. The Government did not have an
appropriate policy framework to encourage SL efficiency until its recent
decision to restructure SLR.  Its opersatins have been regarded as social
services. At the same time, SL! was expected to operate as a cowmercial
undertaking and recover Its costs. These Inconsistencies have produced confusion
and inhibitod Initiatives and zazovation which are required to respond to market
changes and competition fros     ate bus and truck operators.
5.        Financial Problems.   The Government's tight control over railway
pricing prevents SLR from increasing its farea to generate the revenues needed
to cover its costs. Operating losses have led to reduced services and deferring
maintenance of locomotives, wagons, track, signalization and other items.
1J    See Imlemewtation Plan for the Restructurint of t:  Iri Lanka Railway,
prepared by J. C. looney and L. R. Ziebarth, June .992.
,V    The wumber of staff have been reduced from 26,000 in 1989.



- 50 -
Page 2 of 8
Essential scheduled maaitenaneo and uischeduled repairs are sacrificed to first
cover salaries and wages which alone mouited to almost IOOZ of SLR'o total
revenue in 1990. Since financial targets are not set and fiscal disciplina and
accountability aro lacking, thero are no Incentives to effect coat reduction
measures and rationalize expenditures as long as the Government continues to
subsidize SLR deficits.   A critical need is an accounting and management
information system geared to asist in the managmemt of fin ances and operations.
6.        O2erational Inefficiency. Unreliable and inefficient services are the
combined effect of the current organizational structures archaic operating
methods, fragMented control of critical functions5 and ineffective amnagement
and information systems. Since operational performance target. are not set, and
the manual infocmation system is cumbersome and produces reports with delays of
several months, timly evaluation of performanca cannot be undertaken. At
present, neither objectiva evaluation criteria nor procedure. are in place with
which to evaluate performance and take appropriate action.
7.        Wasteful Use of Investment Funds.   Investment decisions by the
Government for various railway components are not carefully scrutinized to select
least-cost options in economic and technical terms, aimed at serving the market
for which SLR has a comparative advantaSe. The tendency is to make investment
decisions based on credit availability and other non-economic ead techanical
eonsiderations rather than on suitability, nialmum requirements for recurrent
expenditures, and priority needs.
8.        The problems of SLR are similar in many respects to those of railways
in other countriea, and arise largely from a tradition of Govrncment regulation
and control of what were originally monopolistic organizations. With growth in
the population and expanded economy, transport demands have also increased. In
a relatively competitive enviroment, privately operated trucks and buses are
able to respond to market demands effectively to capture additional freight and
passenger business, while the cumbersome, bureaucratic SL management structure
has been unable to do likewise.   SL  is primarily a technically oriented
organization, prone to crises management solutions out of necesseity. Lack of
available funds have also prevented SUR from modernizing its plant, equipment and
facilities which were originally designed to meet the needs in a different ers
under different economic circumstances.
Objectives of Restructuring
9.        The purpose of SIR restructuuing is to set the stage for the solution
to the railway problem, outlined in par"s 2 and 3. It alms to remove government
controls over pricing, service levels (excluding what are considered as Public
Service Obligation (PSO)), staffing, procure met and other decisions required of
a market-oriented business corporation. Through organizational, operational and
financial restructuring, it is hoped that the nw railway management would
operate in a corporate structure as a competitive business enterprise. At the
3J    There are two mechanical workshops with overlapping responsibilities and
functions and the Operations Departmdet ha. no control over the
rostering of locomotives and the provision of drivers which are
determined by the Mechanical Department.



- 51 -
AMRK 3
Page 3 of a
same time, it intends to modernize rail operations to provide more efficient and
better quality services at lover costs.
Legislative framework
10.       The proposed Sri Lank  Railway Authority Act, approved by Cabinet and
the Parliament Consultative Committee, is scheduled for parliamentary debate,
with its passage expected in 1993. The roposed Act establishes the Sri Lanka
Railway Authority (SiLk) and its Board, which will be composed of the Chairman,
three professional members from the private sector, the Managing Director of
SLRA, a representative of the Minister of Finance, and a representative of the
Minuster of Transport and Highways. The legislation gives the Board of Directors
authority tot (a) set tariffs, rates, and procedures for the carriage of goods
and persons by rail; (b) enter Into PS0 contracts with government authorities;
(c) refuse to accept unr.munerative traffic unless it is covered by a P80
contract; (d) prescribe railway safety standardst and (e) othezwise properly
administer the affairs of 8L.A. The Chairman of the Board of Directors will have
overall accountability and responsibility for the affairs of SIA and will be
subject to tho direction of the Board of Directors.
11.       The SLkA Board of Directors will appoint a Managing Director who will
have responsibility for: (a) preparation of required financial statements and
audits; (b) financial analysis of investment proposals; and (c) proper
administration of the financial affairs of SL. The Chief Finance Manager will
report to the Board of Directors on matters related to the audit of finances and
operations and to the Managing Director on other matters.
12.       The draft legislation vould enable the now railway authority to apply
three fundamentally important economic and financial policy criteria to guide its
operationst
(a)  providing services where they have an sconomic cost advantage and
discontinuing services where their costs are higher than available
alternative transport odes;
(b)  offering uneconomic services under PSO contracts where they are
compensated for avoidable costs; and
(e)  pricing  services  above  variable  costs  so  that  the  aggregate
contribution of the economic services covers fixed costs.
Elements of  Rastructuring
13.      An important aspect of SLR restructuring is a clear definition of
accountability as an essent"il part of management's performance. In order to
accomplish thlis direct lines of supervision and authority will be established
and separate cost centers will be formed by segmenting marketing responsibility
into: (a) long-haul passengers; (b) suburban passengers; (c) freight services
forming a cohesive operating group (transportatli. equipment and engineering)
to streamline its operations; and (d) real estate department which will be
managed by the private sector under contract with SLA.



- 52 -
ANKUS 3
Page 6 of 8
14.       Orgmnizational RstructS    The SLIs' organixational etmucture i
shon In Chart I below. The officers reporting to the Managing Director vould
be:
*  MNanger, Comuercial 4reight Services
*  Mnager, Co mcrci l-Pa..nger-Camuter-Long-Distauic  Services
* Executive Manager, Operations
*  Chief Finance  anageor
* Manager, Ral Estate
*  Manager of Adminitration
*  Manager of Managament Infomation System  (MIS)
orenxt4 1m  strWtce¢
BOARD
OF
DIRECTORS
I
CHIEF     EXECUTIVEI         PSEGE               RIH
FINANCI N r MANARG                           R
M E  i    E I.                       I ANETRAIAN
REA EPS-8TATE!
MANAGER      OPERATTON8          AAE                &A
HAMMZIS            MCKANAGE



- 53 -
Peg S of 8
15*       Staff orgauizations except Finance wil be heded up by a canager of
Administration. A clear distinction vii bo draw  between finance function, at
the authority le1l and those in the departments. The breidulowu of staff dutie
between the Authority   dt   Atative and Coercial Breache wil be
clearly spocified  and financial cou          and cost accouting dutis will bo
lodged exclusively at the Authority leol (se, Chart It below).
Sri LOOM aI&lwav Authouitv
Orgaizatino of Staff Unit
inn DixBtgr                         At-int Dlroetor
IChif                                 MBanaer
ice                                 Administtration
Chief                               Mana r
Accoutntl                           HPersonnel
f                                    Chief
Costing                            Counsellor
Chief                              Internal
Coating                              Audit
Officer                             Mranae
q  Tresurer|o r
Purchasins 
& stores
Manager
_| Financil                                 Chief
Plannigl                                ecurity
Budgets                              Officer
16.   QtgW&&aton  ad  Marketina  Staff.    In  order  to  distinuish
responsibilities clearly, under the genergl supervision of the Marketing
Mnagers, there wil be three business groups--Freight, Comuter Passener, and
Log Distane Passenger, with each busies group manager performing three b"ic
tasks:
(a)  research to Identify *er-ice neds and prices at which thay ca  be
sold;



-A54 -
Page 6 of 8
(b) solicitation of traffic from the user; and
(c) coordination vith Operations Department to ensure that services are
provided as promised or requested.
17        The freight Bustness Group will be structured to emphasis. direct
calling on customer and comamdity specialization, since SLR& will need to know
its patrons' businesses and transport services demanded. Calling officers should
bo experienced In railway operation. and be willing to acquire intimate knowledge
of the needs of their patrons.
Is.       Organization and Staffing-2oerltions.   Implementing the business
strategy will require a close and effective link between the mArketing.
transportation, and maintenance functions of SLR.A  Operations, including
transportation and maintenance, will ma-x44ze cost effectiveness and
productivity. In effect, it will be performing services for its business group
customers in the marketing function.  The business groups in the marketing
function in turn will identify and attempt to meot the needs of the railway's
patrons.
19 e      In  line with  the need for clear reporting  relationships,  the
Operations Department will be headed by the Executive Msnager of Operations.
Reporting to his will be:
*  Chief Transportation Officer
*  Chief Engineer
*  Chief Mechanical Officer
20.       The three regional superintendents at Colombo, Maho, and Navalapitiya
will report to the Chief Transportation Officer for administrative purposes but
to the Chief Engineer and Chief Mechanical Officer for technical supervision.
The field maintenance Officers will be under the direct administrative control
of the regional superintendents, but under the teebnical supervision of the Chief
Entginer and Chief Mechanical Officer.
21*       Thus the Chief Mechanical Officer will have full and direct authority
over all matters concerning mechanical workshops, including locomotive, coach,
and wagon maintenance technical specifications and procedures, whether in running
sheds or workshops.   Similarly,  the Chief Engineer will have technical
responsibility for both way and works, signals and communications and related
workshops. Their authority will be directed downward throughout the regional
superintendents who will have both way and works and signals specialists under
their supervision. This arrangement vould allow authority and responsibility to
run in parallel with knowledge of the territory sad permit decentralized and
coordinated supervision of all transportation and maintenance staff in the field.
22.       Operational Restructuring.  To streamline operations, the following
changes will be adopted:
(a) realignment of all mechanical and civil engineering functions under
the Operating Department so that rostering of locomotives, rolling
stoac and train personnel will be integrated; reporting to the
Executive Manager of Operating Department will be:



- 55 -
AM    3
Page 7 of 8
*    Chief Transport Officer (responsible for scheduling and operating
trains)
*    Chief Mechanical Officer (for botb routine and preventive rolling
stock maintenance as well as major overhauls)
*    Chief Engineer (to maintain and rehabilitate tracks, bridges, signals
and communications)
(b) The Regional Superintendents would report directly to Chief
Transportation Officer and the local mec:anical and engineering
officers would report through Regional Superinteandents;
(c) to ensure that staff productivity and asset utilization are improved,
SLR& will take actions to meet specific annual operating performance
goals, specified in its Business Plan in terms of:
(i)  Labor Productivity.  Increase the number of combined traffic
units (pass-km plus freight ton-km per employee by major staff
category).
(ii) Grater Asset Utilizatlon. Increase average train sizes (freight
payload, number of passenger seats).
Increase locomotive availability and utilization in kmiday.
Improve wagon availability and turnaround per load; reduce
percentage of empty kme.
Improve passenger coach availability and kilometers per available
day.
Reduce inventory stock levels.
(d) installation of an MIS to link activities of all departments and
enhance the timeliness of data entry and analysis of operational
information for use by the Managing Directors Marketing, Commercial
and Operating Departments in a timely manner; and
(o)  to Improve safety standards, a set of operating rules and disciplines
will be adopted so that accidents and deral2mlets Investigated
imsediately, penalties imposed on those responsible for negligence
while awarding those maintaining good safety records and staff
trainlng will be conducted to improve safety standards.
23.       Fian"cial Restructulnst.   The aim of financial restructuring is to
improve its financial performance by maximizing revenue earning potential,
pricing of services based on costs (including compensation for PSO services and
by reducing operating costs. To achieve this objective, the restructuring schme
will Include the followings
(a) SLRA to install service costing models to obtain detailed and accurate
Information on movement costst



- 56 -
AM3
Page 8 of 8
(b) the Finance Department to preparo cost coefficients by live of
busluese by allocating shared costs for uso by freight an Passenger
Trafic Mangers In developing their contract prices and tariffs for
the servie  they propose to sell;
(c) each business unit to record such Infomation as revenues, expenses,
capital needs, physical volume of services provided and capacity
linitations encountered so that their Input data vould match the
business unit costing referred to In (b) above;
(d)  the  Finance  Department  to  instituto  budgeting  and  monitoring
functions, with the objective of providing needed information to the
Managing Director and the Board for prioritizing the coiitmsnt of
resources
(e) SLRA management to require proper financial reporting of: ti) annual
operational budget; (i) long-tete financial plan.; (iII) capital
Investment budgets in Income Accounta, Cash-Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets; and
(f) the Pinace Department to employ a Treasurer (a banker or investment
usnager) to develop forecsts of cash needs and sources of cash to
meet forecast needs and manage Investable funds to msz4i4ze returns
to S8.



- 57 -
Page I of 5
Colombo Urban Transuort 8tudy
Outline Term of Reference
A. Introduction
1.        The Study will cover all modes of urban transport in the Colombo
Metropolitan Region, with appropriate emphasis on public transport, roads,
railways, modal interfaces and non-motorized transport sub-sectors. The Study
will be undertaken by a team of qualified consultants (Consultant), and the
Transport Studies and Planning Center (TSPC) which functions as the technical
secretariat to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for the Coordination and Planning
of Transport (IMC-CPT).  The Consultant will report to the TSPC through a
Steering Committee, composed of members of the Ministry of Transport and Highways
(MMT), with Secretary *a the Chairman; the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC)I
'ational Transport Commlssion (NTC); Sri Lanka Railways (SLR)l Road Development
"athoriviy (RDA); Urban Development Authority (UDA)t Sri Lanka Ports Authority
(SLPA); Traffic Police (TP); Western Provincial Council (WPC); and Greater
Colombo Economic Commission (CC).
S. Obiectives
2.        The general ais of urban transport planning in Colombo is to increase
the efficiency of tho urban transport system and to ensure that transport
facilities and services can meet the needs of urban growth. The Study objectives
are to:
(a)  identify deficiencies, existing and future, in the Colombo urban
transport system, to develop and evaluate alternative urban transport
strategies and policies to address those problems and to recomnend a
preferred strategy and complementary policies;
(b) taking account of fiscal constraints, develop realistic investment
program   (tamediate,  five-year  and  ten-year)  and  supporting
nlstitutional and policy measures to _aplement the preferred strategy
and policy;
(c) carry out feasibility studies for high priority projects--essentially
those Included In the tmediate and five-year investment programs; and
(d) establish en urban transport planning process within TSPC and other
concerned agencies.



- 58 -
Page 2 of 5
C. Scooe of Consultuau Services
3.        The Study vlll comprise the following tasks
No,                    asak Sitle
1.    Urban Transport Planning Frsmework (Inception Report)
2.    Data Base
3.    Urban Development Ansalysis
4.    Travel Analysis
5.    Urban Transport Strategy
6.    Measures to Strengthen Institutions
7.    Investment and Policy Action Program
8.    Feasibility Analyses of the Highest Priority Projects
9.    Traffic System Management and Safety Improvement Programs
nTSE 1  DEVELOP URBAN      SPORT PLANG RAMEWORK (INCEPTION REPORT)
4.        The purpose of this task is to specify and develop the urban transport
planning processes to be used throughout the Study in meeting the requirements
of subsequent tasks (Tasks 2 - 10). In undertaking the task, the consultant
will:
(a) dtfine the Metropolitan Colombo Region to be covered in the Study
taking into account its linkages of econmic activities, home-work
travel patterns, spatial distribution (land uses) of comerical,
industrial and residential areas; and
(b) review the strengths and weaknesses of the existing urban transport
planning software and processes which can be adopted for use in TSPC
and, where possible, build upon the existing systems and data.
5.      It is stressed that a comlex model which recuires massive data
collection, is not recuired: the model must enable a ran-e of strategic ongtions
to be tested auicklv and reslisticallv and to identify zotential measures for
more detailed irvestigatioM. The model should enabl, forecasting and estimates
of: (a) transport demands b9sed on land use patterns, economic activities and
population growth; (b) traffic capacity constraints and multi-modal traffic
assignments; (c) transport costs, including congestion costs; and (d) economic
benefits obtainable from transport ivestmnts, including consumer surplus.
2ASK-2  - DEVLOP DATA BA
6.        The purpose of this task is to merge, update and refine the existing
urban transport data bases available from various ageices (traff c, public
transport, rail, atc.) and to establish a system for managing it in the future.
Task 2 will comprise the following:
(a) d"eig of an integrated urban transport data base system that would
meet the data storage, manament, analysii, retrieval and reporting
requiremets of the Study; and
(b) installation of a data bas  agement system at TSPC. The Consultant
will supply and litall either off-the-shelf or specially-designed



- 59 -
ASN= 4
Page 3 of S
data management software for use during the Study and will be managed
by TSPC after the completion of the Study.
TASK 3 * CONDUCT UIWhN DEVELOPHENT ANAYSIS
7.        The purposes of this task are to review land use plan alternatives mad
economic development trends, and update forecasto of population and land use
based on an asessment of the constraints on urban developueat in the Colombo
Region essentially to derivo the development scenarios for input to the planning
process. Task 3 will involve the followings
(a) analysis of land use plans, population and sconomic trends;
(b) analysis of urban managment constraintst and
(c) forecasts of the direction and intenaity of urban growth, based on
outputs from (a) and (b) aboves, and urban development Indicators to
be developed to enable five-year and ten-year travel forecasts to be
prepared under Task 4.
TASK 4. uDRMTAKe TRAVEL ANALYSIS
8.        The purpose of this task is to collect and analyze travel data in
Colombo to: (a) enable existing problms to be quantifled; (b) provide the basis
for  defining,  testig  *nd  evaluating  alternative  multi-modal  transport
development options vithin an intermodal analysis framework; and (c) deficiencies
and constraints in the transport system. Task 4 will comprise the followings
(a) design and conduct of traffic and transport surveys;
(b) review of the current facilities and conditions under which transport
services are operating
(cj aaalysis of the existing travel and inventory data;
Cd) identification of the planned investments and other actions that could
significantly change the future urban transport system;
(e) preparation of traffic demand forecasts;
(f) development and evaluation of transport development alternatives;
(S) road and rail intermodal analysis; and
(h) identification of investment proposals.
TASK 5. DEVELOP URBAN TRANSPORT STRATEGY
9.        The Consultant will carry out Task S in parallel, and iteratively,
with Task 4. The purpose of this task is to identify urban transport development
strategies that would addrses the key issues in the sector for the short (five-
year), medium (ten-year) and long (20-year) terms and will comprise the
followitgs



- 60 -                        page 4 of 5
(a) preparation of multi-modal transport strategies relating key iseues
to strategy options;
(b) cost estimates for alternative strategies to enable economic and
financial analyses to be carried outt
(c) evaluation of alternative strategies in quantitative (capacity,
operational, economic, finaucial, environmental) and qualitative
terms, including rail vs. road intermodal analysis; and
(d) refinement and selection of preferred transport strategy.
TASK 6. DEVELOPMENT OF A PROGRAM TO STRENOTHEN INSTITUTIONS
10.       The purpose of this task is to recommend improvement measures, withiu
the context of the proposed strategy, to stengthen leadership In the urban
transport sector. Task 6 will comprises
(a) assessment of existing institutional arrangements, organizational
structure, management, legal and administrative processes, functions,
responsibilities and evaluation of the main issues affecting each
agency in the execution of its responsibilities;
(b) evaluation of institutional development alternatives In a discussion
paper for review and comuent by the Government and IDA;
(c) institutional recommendations, including organizational restructuring
and policy reforms needed to ;mplement preferred urban transport
development strategy; and
(d) preparation of a training program containing human and material
resource requirements, their costs, Implementation schedule and
responsible implementing agencies.
TASK 7. INVESTMENT AND POLICY ACTION PROGRAM
11.       The purpose of this task is to establish investment and actions plans
to realize the selected strategy and will includes
(a) investment proposals for infrastructure (e.g. road-based public
transport, road, railway and non-motorized transport, as appropriate).
Policy actions and institutional measures necessary to support and
realize the strategy will be defined;
(b) preparation of a priority list, based on analyses of economic,
financial, technical, operational and environmental aspects and will
include an immediate action plan of recommended investments, and a
ten-year investment program in two stages indicating projects
commencing within five and ten years (ses Task 9);
(c) evaluation of possible sources of financing to meet lv8estment and
recurrent cost requirements in line with resources availability; and



- 61 -
ANp[^ 4
Page S of S
(d)   aessmmt of teeb.call, socio-economic and environmental impact of
the proposed ivestments and pollcies.
TASKS . PRASIBULIT! AMALSES OPF 1I=ST PR1ORITY INVESTMEUTS
12.       Prior to undertaking this task, the Consultant will agree with GOSL
and IDA which investment items will be subject to feasibility analyses. This
tak will ivolve:
(a)  preliminary design work and cost estimates for rehabilitation,
upgrading and construction and for equipment and rolling stock
acquisition within + 202 accuracy;
(b) operational analyses to determine the viability of proposals;
(c) economic analysis (vehicle operating, congestion and maintenance cost
savings, travel time savings, lower investment requirements due to
increased utilization, etc.);
(d) financial analyses (especially for the rallways); and
(e) environmental Impact analyes.
TAK  .  TRAFFC SYSTEM MANAgoEmE  AND SAEYM  IMROVEMEN  POGRAMS (InmMEAT
13.       The purpose of this task is to prepare a comprehensive program of
Traffic System Managemet (TSU) and safety improvemnt programs in the Colombo
Regin, aimed at incressing road capacity and improving traffic flow,
particularly for public transport vehicles.   This task will involve the
followings
(a) identification of the location and extent of traffic problems by using
such Indicators as vehicle/capacity ratLo, level of service, travel
speeds, junction capacity and aecidents;
(b) pseparation of a TSU program to address the identified problems, e.g.
traffic circulation sem s,  junction  amprov  ments, bus priority
measr es, pedestrian and cycle achemes, management measures (road
marking, signing, on-street parking controls) and othere;
(e) cost estimates of the TSm program and eonomic evaluation; and
(d) institutional development for TSM In coordination with actions
undertaken in conjuction with other projects.



- 62 -
Page 1 of 2
teccalso Assistance to the
Natinal Transport Candision and FravncbIl cougils
Outlie Teom  of Rf erom
tial  eTrasort Commsslo
1 .       Cosultants will a1sist the Natioal Trasport Cmission with the
exeution of the following taeks:
(a) monitoring of bus services;
(b) establishment of bue tervice stari4arda
(c) supply/demand analysis for route structure development
(d) tendering procedure, for uneconomcd routes;
(e) determination of the rates and fee for passenger service route
permits, motor vehicle regiatration and drlver'. licenses;
(f) regulation of competing transport linem in eongsted corridors t
(g)  installation of a usagemmt Information system and it. use as a
management toolg
(h) bus rout costing analysis and periodic updating when major changes
occur In operating coots; and
(i)  enforcement of safety regulation  in regaid to the vehicle fitness
test through annual Inspection and medical fitness of bu drivers by
requiring medlcl certificats  hen obtaining route pemits.
2         Coonultants wil train the Provincial Council staff to enAble tbhu  to
carry out the following task4s



- 63 -
Page 2 of 2
(a) c00pU.tio±n of motor vdb¢l regltration date by type of vehicle and
geographic area, collection of registration fees and lssuance of
licce plates;
(b) Issuance of route pemits to bus operatores
(e) management of bus ternals, stands and coordinated timetabless and
td) monitoring of service proisions at the local lvel.



- 64 -
AS 6
Page I of 9
OLOM    URBA  TRANSPORT  ROCT
Technical Assistane for
8ri Lanka  ailway Restructurnag
A. Outline Terms of Roforence
Objectives
1.        The primary objectives of the proposed technical assistance program
are to a"ssit the newly created Sri Lanka Ralwvay Authority (SLI) with
Implementation of the SLR Restructuring Plan agreed with IDA and preparation of
SLRA's four-yer Business Plan. The specific objectives of technical assistace
include:
(a) providing advisory services to the SLRA Board and Managing Director
so that the comuercialization process of railway operations can
cnomeuceg
(b) training the new managers so that resources are allocated in a timely
fsshion to those lines of business which have the highest returns, and
to withdraw resources (service.) where no returns can be gained. Thbie
decisions must be consistent with the public service obligations (MSO)
determined by the Government and compensation paid to the SLIA for the
P80 services offered, using mutually agreed cost recovery formula.
(c) assisting and training in the preparation of cost estimatos for all
services, including the provision of PSO services, and asisting In
the conduct of PSO negotiations during the initial period of
operations after restructuringl and
(d) providing advisory services to enable the SL1A to achieve targets set
forth in its Business Plan In the areas of management, marketing,
financing, Ms ngement  Information  System  (MIS)  and  mechanical
workshops.
8co2o of-Work
2 *Rzatriate Team Structure. Au expatriate tern of consultants would
consist of five highly qualified individuals who have had relevant senior
management experience. The required assistance can be summaried as followss
(a) The 5LA Board would require a senior advisor with extensive
experience as a principal officer (chairman, chief executive, chief
operating officer, executive vice-president) of a successful railway
eatity"



- 65 -
AM= 6
Page 2 of 9
(b) The SLRA's finance function would require an Individual with vide
-ralroad financial experience, "  a cief fincial officer or as
.eior deputy;
(c)  The SL's marketing function would require an advisor who can
compotently covor both pricing and customr relationg
(d) The on-cite coordination and operating function would require an
individual who ha  served  ae a  aeior  general officer for a
substantial poriod of time and who has knowledge of such function. a
rail systme plan&ikg, locomotive and rolling stock allocation, and
track maintenancet and
(a) Th. mechanical function would require an individual with substantial
laderchip and organizational skills who csa provide both technical
sad financial evaluation of mechanical maintenance aud related
activitiec.
3.        While all five experts would report to and advise the Board of the
Authority, it is expected that each would work on a one-on-one basis with their
counterparts under the new organixation. The advisor and coordinator would each
work closely with the Chairmn and the Managing Director.  The financial tea
member would interface most directly with the Chief Finance Manager.  The
marketing tam member would work with the Coimercial Dilectors (Freight and
Paccenger).   The operation. mesber would directly  asJist the Operation
Director. The mechanicel team member would directly advise the Chief Mechanical
Officer and the Operations Director.
4.        The consultantc will assist the SLBA withs
(a) Overall Operational Work
(i) management of comercially oriented transport sarvices and
Impleentatiton of the SLRA Business Plan;
(gl) financial reporting, analysis, cocting of services and control
of all railway activities, coordinated with the activities of the
marketing sad operational staff;
(III) establiabment of a marketing function, which involves analycsi of
markets, pricse, and competitive alternatives, intensive cuctomer
contact  and  solicitation,  and  service  development  and
supervicion;
(ii)  *etablibsment  of  appropriate  operating  discipline,  line
orgamization, buciness attitudes, and profit orientation for all
officers and employese;
(v) Installation of an MIS necessary to support management and board
decision-msking 
(vi)  provision of minimum necessary levels of data procesaong capacity



- 66 -
ANNE 6
Page 3 of 9
In terms of operating and programming skills, data security,
machine room environment and equipment to meet base level MIS
needs; and
(vii)  control end reduction of the   personnel cost and Inventory
requirements of the maechanical functions
(b) Sunnort for Administration of PSO. The consultants will:
(i) devise a contract framework to be usod for the SLRA to negotiate
a PSO contract and its reimbursement formula. The formula should
be based on verifiable elements of historic cost data per unit of
service output purchased. For this exercise, the SLRA would
adopt service and maintenance standards currently in place while
providing for future operating and investment cost requirtm_ents.
The contract should consider the implications of existing and new
investmuent in terms of replacement cost recovery for existing
assets, capital recovery for newly acquired assets, and fair
return equal to the overall railway cost of capital charged the
SLRh;
(ii) consider the applicability of "prime user" costing techniques
under the circumstances presented by SLIA services. In general,
SLRA coamuter services will be the prime user within their areas
of operation and other services may be charged a fee for track
use  Care should be exercised when advancing marginal costing
schemes to deal explicitly with capital replacement issusa
commuter serviceas may be regarded as perpetual (i.e., requiring
full replacement) while other PSO services may phase out. Fare
box receipts will offset a portion of costs, leaving a remainder
for PS0 reimbursement. The PS0 contract would give due
consideration to incentives for SLIA to min4Iize fare evasion,
sponsor off-peak usage, and generally maximize revenue
collections;
(iii) review revenue statistics and examine operations to determine
ridership, fare basis, and practices of revenu collection.
Emphasis winl be given to deriving a proper unit revenue and cost
estimation and to identifying opportunities to incorporate
revenue enhancing Incentives in the PSO contract;
(iv) estimate elements of service cost to be used In the reimbursement
formula. Table Is PSO Service Cost Elemento may serve as a
guide, although not all inlusive, to estimating these elements.
Emphasis should be placed on differentiating between elements of
avoidable (short-torm variable) costs and embedded (long-run
variable) costs. Many costs may contait elements of both; and
(v) base items (iii) and (iv) to Integrate each factor into
reimbursement formul such as the example illustrated in Table 2:
Public Service Obli"ation Formla.   This formula should be
comprehensive; yet uncomplicated and logical so as to be readily



- 67 -
ANNIEZ 6
Page 4 of 9
understood and explainabls to a diverese audience.
(c) Susuort for ImUlementation of 14S. Support wlll be providod in the
followlng are"sI
(i)  Current status.  The SLRA will inherit the current suite of
system and the Sperry 5000/50 computer running in UNIX mode.
The exisZing software is written in 4GL Informix language and
covers soa or all portions of Revenue Accounting (passenger
receipts only), Payroll, and Stores (not fully implemented). The
generl state of these systeams is poor having suffered frau
nadequate testing and maintenance support after original
installation in 1988 and 1989. Traited and qualified personnel
are inadequate in number to maintain these system. In addition,
the operating system and supervision work are weak.  On the
positive side, system architecture and the open language
environmnt favor enhancement and renewal by adding desired
features to the existing structure as a stopgap measure until key
systems such as Payroll can be rehabilitated or rewritten.
Property   Lease   Accounting   is   a   stand-alone   system.
Communications networks are just adequate to support basic system
communication needs with some modification of data switching
hardwaret
(i) assist In the Implementation of an Oneratina Information System
PlLgt Scheme to generate train monitoring, locomotive and power
coach inventory control, automatic message switching for failure
reporting, and operating statistics for managemnt. The pilot
scheme  would  cover  the  Main  Central,  Anuradhapura,  and
Nawlapltlya divisions which account for over 801 of train
movements  The major portion of technical assistance funds will
be allocated for training in systems engineering, software, and
hardware. Emphasis will be placed on modifying existing software
packages, using equipment alresdy on hand, and focussing on the
most critical applications to conserve resourcest
(111) assist in the compilation of accurate revenue records,
particularly for PSO accounting and marketlservice pricing
efforts. For this purpose, local consultants will be recruited
to complete the work begun by Data Tech in 1988, In verification
and testing of revenue modules, implementation of data editing
modules, Integration of the process of compiling freight
receipts, updated and/or ex-post documentation, maintenance
assistance. In addition, the consultants will define the tasks
of one new hire for SLRA to operate and maintain the systems; and
(iv)  control inventory levels and materials costs   The expatriate
consultants will assist the SLRA in restructuring the materalsl
management systems to gauge costs and increase equipment
availability. As a priority measure, the work begun by Data Tech
on an Integrated Stores System will be extended, with the
assistance of the expatriate consultants, to Include modules



- 68 -
Pago S of 9
dealing with usage reporting and re-order levels - Revisios and
specifications will also include ezpandlng tho system to all
critical stores depots, documentation of nem additions. and
system  maintenance during the first two yars.
TABLE I,
Fuel E LUb!iC*t5                  K        
Locomtive MainteMAIce,            I
Coach Ma_atenance & ClaaSagn
Train Staff              |        x
Station Staff & Mmix.                                  I
Iliasc. 3nuac                                           £
Ways & Works at.                  X                    X
Locomotive Replacement
Factor4        ___                                      I
Rolling Stock Replaeent
Capital Recovery factor'
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
I            Including sp re  from inventoy an  re         taton    pedture
added to capital value.
2            Refer to Footnote #1.
Based on annual normalised ewpenas per unit of use, e.g., train-
ton-kilometer.
4            Bsed on estimated replacement cost and remainitg useful lives  for
dedicated stock, and wear and tear as a function of use for non-
dedicated stock.
Refer to Footnote A4.
Based on long-term average cost of capital to the railvay or the
Government. Applied to dedicated existing assets In the form of
interest plus a factor sufficient to equialize replacament coata
with actual financial outflows for new acquisitions.



- 69 - 
Pae  of 9
aLz
ISO  *  (L  + LT  X Q) - ( + A  -)
'eat-rn
PO          Public service obligation contracted for by the
Goverment entity (e) In tovms of periodic paygmnts
to the rdailwy.
8TC + LTC -  Standxd short-term plus long-term vaviable costs of
one-seat kilmter include both fixed and variale
cost elements at Ustandard* volume asumtion in seat
kilometers.
Q    -       Quntity of seat-kilomters as agreed bewee  the
Govenment  ntitty(s) and the railway.
K    -       Pare revenue eqectations at agreed service output
levels.
AR   -       Inctal (additional) collections.
-       Inentive factor Is a portion of  XingrAJ revens
resulting from enhaced collections warded to the
service provider for use in capital projects, ete.
D. Outlie  an. of Isffrec, for a Costin  Stud1'
Study Ob_ectvle
S.        The objectlves of the proposed study are tos
(a) devlop a costing system which woud allow ISL  to determ   detail
railway operating costs so that the following could be undertaken*
*    caload costing by c odity and movemnt
* passenger transport costing by train, type of service and route
*    developmet of cost-based tariffs wherever possible; ad
*    preparation of submssios to request goverment subsidies for
uncoanomic but socillUy desirable servies- under a public service
obligtion (MO) contract.
(b) set up a costing system that would allow periodin updatig of the cost
factors with a minium am*ount of effort, through computeriation and
dee lopm nt of  data baseo end
,J   To be financed by the Canadian   t      tl Delopment Aey (CIDA).
IL  Wil take on a me  un, Sri    kRailw  Authority (CLA)* after
restructuring.



- 70 -                       AM   _
Pass 7 of 9
(a) identify operations that may be feasible for prtvatization in the
future.
6.        To moet the above objective, the consulting team wil carry out the
following tasks 
(a) review the existing procedures and data entry system for both
accounting and flnacial Information as wall as for railway operating
staetistcs;
(b)  proiWde SLR with specific recommendations for modifying the existing
data bases for costing purposes, Including suggestions for
desegregation required In the classification of accounts. It should
be noted that the consultants' recomendations should be constent
with the newly restructured SLRA'sz' organizational fraework and
operations which will be organized along functional lines (e.g.,
separate costing centers for suburban, freight, long-distance
passenger services and the real estate department, etc.);
(c)  definea  d ata bass that would s-rve as an effective management tool
for the SLRA to carry out its mandate and achleve operational and
financial targete specified in the SLI9'. Business Plaeai'
(d)  develop a costing system  using  a variety   of analytical and
statistical techniques. The relatioaship of each main cost element
(dependent variable) with the relevant causal variables will be
determined by the techniques most appropriate for each casel an
autmated system should be readily usable by SLR commercial staff and
eaily _zplementable by the Finance Department (including accounting
staff);
(a) prepare a costing manual, documenting the costs, operating statistics,
and variables being used, along with procedures for updating and
calculating relevant data. The consultants should provide SLBA with
ae IBM-PC compatible system and standrd packageslprograms required
for the development of costing applications, such as Lotus 123,
Systat, end DIASI III; and
(f) train the 8LRA costing group tbrough a number of workshops to
demonstrate methods of applying the costs that are developed. Typical
applications ares
*    development of tariffsl
*    analysis of the viability of branch lines and the costs of pasenger
service*s
The legislation to establish the Sri Lanka Railvay Authority (8LRA) is
expected to be passed by the Parliament in 1993.
11   A draft Business Plan has been prepared. The final four-year Plan wil be
prepared with the assistance of consultants financed under the Colombo
Urba Transport Project.



- 71 -                       AM= 6
Pago 8 of 9
*    basic data needed to prepare submissions for a PS0 contract; end
*    profitability analyses of services i1  order to target area  or
services for management intervention to increase efflency.
Staff ing. Soecific Asgitaments wad Schedule
7.          A total of 14.7 staff-ouwth services will be provided by a team of
four experts, comprsaing Team Leader/Costing Advisor, Coating Specialist,
Accounting Advisor and Computer Advisor. Team Leader/Costing Advisoer ill be
responsible for the overall supervision of the proposed study to be completed
over a six-month period.
AgtivlI During the first three wooke of tha Study, Toam LeaderICosting
Advisor, Cooting Specialist and Accounting Advisor vill complete a review of
current procedures and exi ting data capture and storage system.
hAtiv.tv 2 During the first and second months of the Study, *11 teas member.
will be involved in developing and recomeonding modifications to existing data
baaes.
&gtj=   3 During the begSinning of the second mouth, Coating Specialist vill
prepare a new data base.
cAtivitL 4 During the second and third months of the Study, all teas members
will participate In the development of cooting models.
Actftv S During the third and fourth months of the Study, Tesm Leader/Coating
Advisor and Costing Spocialist will prepare a costing manual.
ActSvity  6  In the fourth month of the Study, Tem Leadter/Costing Advisor and
Computer Advisor will be responsible for the computerization of procedurs and
techbnques.
Actlst= 7 Costing Specialist wlll provide training in costing from the
beginning of the fifth month to the middle of the sixth month.
AStftitr 8 Team Leader/Costing Advisor will conduct training tn computers from
the beginning of the fifth month till the middle of the sixth mouth.
Actlvlty I Costiag SpecilWist will provide training in use of computerized
costing system during the lst half of the sixth month.
StIl.lt 10 Tem Leader/Costing Advisor wlll be responsible for the preparation
of Study reports. This activity wil continue throughout the duration of the
Study, with concentrated effort during the 1lat mouth.
S.        The work 8chedule will be controlled by Team Leader who will ensure
that the various activities are completed within the allocated tmeffs. Each
consultant will report ditrctly to Teas Leader.
GMS Contribut"Mn
9.        Tha GOSL will provide the follovingS
(a) offie space In ST-NA;
(b) counterpart staff from the maaketing, finance, corporate plannlig,



W i 0       S  0. X0
* ai [P e



- 73 -
AM 7
Pag 1 of 4
Sala=B TItAN TRNPORT PRCJRC
Outline Ters off ReferenE=
.Potseial Private Sector Involvement in the Sri Lanka Railways
1.        Legislatiora to implement restructuring of the Sri Lanka Railways (SLR)
has been put before the Parliament of the Government of Sri Lanka, approval and
adoption expected in early 1993, restructuring calls for the creation of Sri
Lanka Railways Authority (SIRA) to take over and operate the physical assets of
the existing (SLR). The SLR Act defines the economic role of the SLRA, and the
GOSL policy objectives for the SLRA. The Transport Studies and Planning Centre
(TSPC) has coordinated several studiesl and efforts on behalf of the GOSL.
2.        The key aspect of the creation of the SLRA is the establishment of a
semi-autonomous administration, responsible to a Board of Directors, which will
assume the obligations of running the nation's railway. As set forth in the
document, the SLIA is to have a degree of financial independence and management
accountability and will be operated on coimnercial principles consistent with GOSL
policies.
3.        A central policy goal is the adoption of business strategies keyed to
producing the required services in the most cost effective manner, and pricing
these services to reflect costs, including, where deemed necessary, subsidies to
services. As an overall goal, the policy is to improve the quality of rail
transport services, while reducing the cost to the national economy, as measured
by the total budgetary support required to fund the operating and capital
expeditures of the SUlA.
4.        The next phase of SLR restructuring is the orderly transfer of
activities to the private sector or the involvement of the private sector to an
important degree in contracting for the goods and services consumed by the
Railway or providing the rail services themselves. These Outline Terms of
Reference seek to define the process by which specific SIRA assets and/or
activities could be readied for transfer and the means by which this occur.
Diaggosis of the Present Business
5.        The consultantn will survey and diagnose the current asset holdlngs
and business of SLM commenting on physical condition, operational suitability,
resources surplus to needs, and resources wanting. They will also acquaint
2/ Tbransprt Sector Planin= 8tudr, Vol. 2 (Railways); XE5lementatUln Plan
for Lte ResruturYin  of te QILL; S3R Work Force Reduction Studv; kDaft
lIZ lusiness Plan.



- 74 -
Page 2 of 4
themselves with operational practices and procedures.  Areas of study will
include:
Track and Structure
Rolling Stock
Signalling and Train Control
Operating Procedures
Workshops and Depots/Sheds
Staffing at 311 Levels
Land Utilization
Real Estate Properties
Legal and Social Environment
Business and Resource Oroubines
6.        The consultants will define the various businesses in which SLIh could
be engaged and the resources employed. The aim of this task is to define lines
of business, groups of assets and individual assets which form intogral units and
whLch in turn could be of interest to the private sector. Aside from the
possibilities to form a freight business unit, as vell as commuter and long
distance passenger units, the consultants will examine ways in which workshops,
stations, vacant and unused lands, permissions to uas rights-of-way and other
assets and resources could rationally be configured.
Analnsis of Commercial Potentisl
7.        The consultants will develop benchmarking models for each viable
business scenario, in so far as possible, adopting the perspective of potential
private sector participants. The first phase of this work will involve analyzing
appropriate levels of resources required for these busineases, based on existing
and potential market demands under local operational and economic conditions.
Thus the consultant's work will produce:
Expected Demand for Rail Transport Services
Definition of Appropriate Operating Levels
Required Staffing and Operating Resources
Capital Investments Necessary to Enable Ownership
Status and/or Improve Operations
8.        In the second step, financial and economic analyses will utilize the
abovo bencbmark data to examine the 2ro,nZa         financial results of each
alternative outcome, including expectations for revenues, costs, capital
expenditures, and net cash flows. The consultants will assess fiscal Impacts of
each scenario, resource costs for staff redundancy or investments required to
enable privatization, and offsets in terms of reduced budgetary support, etc.
Where and as applicable, costs of continuing government oversight of residual
activitles as well as safety and price regulation for PSO service should be taken
into account.



- 75 -
AMNE 7
Page 3 of 4
Transfr Process
9.        The consultants will survey worldwide experience to identify models
and methods employed to transfer resources and assets to the private sector and
will evaluate the pros and cons of different options for privatization. 4ethods
studies should include, but not be limited to, the following:
Sale of Assets
Public Offering (Flotation) of Share CapLtal,
Concession of Assets and Service Franchlse
Private Contract Operation, Assets Retained by State
Shared Private/State Operation, Infrastructure Retained
by State (Swedish model)
Contracting Out for Services and Materials
10.       The consultants will examine the practical, financial and legal
constraints facing each transfer method, with particular respect to the SLRA
scenario. They will consider the availability of capital in terms of the size
and availability of capital, both locai and foreign, relative to envisioned
transaction size.
11.       With respect to collateral assets and real property owned, consultants
should examine the limits to transferability of land and real property in respect
of national patrimony laws. They should evaluate the utility, mobility, removal
and restoration costs of buildings and equipment which may be transferred to
priva-e owners and determine their usefulness as financing tools.
Recommended Transactiona
12.       Taking into account the quantitative and qualitative findings, the
consultants will recommend a course of action for each SLRA business or group of
assets, as defined In para 5. For each business or asset group, recommndations
should specify: (a) the assets and resources to be included in the transfer; (b)
the recommended metbodology of transfer; (c) and a likely range of outcomes for
the GOSL, including fiscal impacts, for each recoiuanded action where no feasible
transfer alternative exists. The consultants should indicate the reasons for
recommending no action," including tecbnical, operational and budgetary reasons.
Process and Oneratinal Imulications of Rcoa        tions
13.       Each method reombmended will have ongoing implications in terms of
procedures which the GOSL must follow to effect the transfer and the residual
government organizations necessary to deal with personnel and assets remaining
in the custody of the GOSL. It is expected that the consultants will furnish the
followlng items of procedural guidance with respect to each major transfer
scenario and recomnation:
specify Procedure/Timtable for Recommended Method
Enumerate Required Documents



- 76 -
LUK2
Pag 4 of 4
Specify Objectives for Contract Negotiations Betwe.n GOSL
and Purchasers
Specify Implenting OrSaULZatioUS (Existlng or 1eO)
Specify R.sidil Oraatios to Manage Rem-ai
Tasks and Regulate Safety and Prices (a applicable)
Contlnud Techmical sasinal"  R2gUired
14.     Tm  consultan  will be expected to prepare draft terms of referene
for further technlicl as1istance required to Implaemnt privatization. Such terms
of reforence shall include specifying the objectives. structure, staffing and
sk*ils requirements for technisal assistance to the IUplementing agencies.



ANNEX 8
77                  Page1of 3
COLONBO BRIA  TROANSPOR?     C
"ir Pollution Nanacament Study
Outline Terms of Reference
1.        The objectives of the proposed study are to:
(a) identify pollutants that have reached or likely to reach critical
levels in the near or long term, rauking in order to toxicity or other
health based criterial
(b) provide design parameters for a comprehensive air pollution management
program, building on work alrese..y under implementation and comditted,
to reduce emissions of pollutio' ehat are on the critical list, such
as NOx, VOC and SOx;
(c)  develop the basis for establishing a policy framework to support al
quality objectives;
(d) Identify and develop a program to improve the scientifi4 data base
to support the development of an air quality program; and
(e) Identify the prerequisites to strengthen the institutional
capabilities to plan and Implement an effective air quality program
over the long-term.
SCOPE OF THE STUDY
2.        The Study will provide  an  analytical basis  for developing  an
Integrated air pollution management program. As a follow-up action to the Clean
Air 2000 Program developed un4ar the aegis of the Metropolitan Environment
Improvement Program (HEIP) and adopted by the Central Environmental Authority
(CIA), it will identify time and cost-based feasible strategies, ranking
components in each strategy in order of cost-effectiveness and benefits. The
Study will Include the following:
3.        Standards monitorine and Rnaulation
(a) review current ambient air quality standards comparing with those
established by the GOSL, WHO, US, EPA, Japan and Western Europe and
recommend appropriate changes to reflect safe, permissible levels
based on health-related criteria relevant to Sri Lanka;
(b) develop inzentory of pollutants by species, taking Into account
pollution control measures under implementation and planned for the
next five years; and identify pollutants that are likely to exceed
permissible levels;
(c) review the capabilities of current air quality monitoring institutions
and  procedures;  identify  liadequacies  and  make  appropriate



AsNNEX 8
-78-                             Page 2 of 3
recomendation., e.g., Inspection/Maintenance (IlI) progrms for heavy
duty diesel engine vehicless, decentralized I/K procedures for
passenger cars, computerixed registration system linked to I/M
systems, and annual safety inspections In conjunction vith emission
testing, etc.  The program must be designed taking into account
affordabilityl
(d)  develop guidelines and design criteria for establishing human exposure
laboratories to track the effect of pollutant species on children and
adults; and
(e)  develop economic evaluation methodology for assessing environmental
benefits of reducing different pollution species.
4.        Vehicles
(a) review efficiency of enforcement and compliance with emission
standards as currently proposed, Identify and recommend means to
Improve   emissions   monitoring   facilities   and   institutional
capabilitiest
(b) establish evaporative emission standards, and design requirements for
storage and filling facilities to reduce or eliminate hydrocarbon
emissionst
(c) reco=mend fuel efficiency standards for all vehicles;
(d) assess economic and financial feaibility of retrofitting old, high-
use vehicles to reduce pollution;
(e)  assess economic and flnancial feasibility of using LPG and na ural gas
for public transport;
(f) estinate costs and environmental benefits of re-engining trucks and
buses; and
(g) assess economic and fluancial feasibility of banning 2-stroke
motorcycles to encourage 4-stroke motorcycles.
S.        Trans2ort. Traffic and Roads
(a) review and define the roles of segregated translt modes (raillbusways)
based on economi and environmental criteria;
(b) link environmentally sound public transport service provision and
travel demand policiest and
(c) fonnulate a traffic management policy that would facilitate traffic
flows and encourage the use of high-capacity carriers as public
transport modes.



AmNEX 8
79                                Page 3 of 3
6.        Zwer GMraustln
(a) study the options of using different fuels for meeting projected
future thermal power requirements and determine the extent to which
each option would cause pollution species to increase In the ambient
airt
(b)  evaluate   economic  viability   and   technical   feasibility   of
environmentally friendly alternatives to *hermal power; and
(c) estimate the current and future levels of NOx emissions from the power
sector over the next 15 years and assess the likely impact on the
formation of secondary pollutante, ozone, in particular.
7.        Indutrv
(a) identify industries vhich are particularly aggressive to the
environment, review technologies in use by these industries, and
recommend means to reduce adverse environmental Impact caused by
industries;
(b) survey emission control equipment used by industries and estimate the
costs of reducing emission by retrofitting;
(c) identify training needs for operators to efficiently control
combustion gases necessary to reduce pollution; and
(d) assess Nlx emlsions from boilers currently In use by Industries and,
if NOx emissions are found to be high, determine the costs of
replacing them by low lOx burners.
°-,       Service lacilities.   Survey the types of fuels used by service
facilities, such as bakeries, hotels, hospitals, schools, and military
cantonments, particularly In the Greater Colombo Metropolitan Area (GCIA), and
analyze the options and their costs for using cleaner and environmentally
friendly fuels.
9.        Ragortang.  The results should be presented in detail with adequate
supporting data for the recosmended  trategies of monitoring ambient air and
emission levels contributed by vehicles, Industry, power sector and service
facilities iu the GMCA and implementitg cost-effective nmes for meeting required
standards. Consultants will review all relevant studies already undertaken on
matters outlined in parse 4, 5, and 6, in particular, and incorporate them in the
study. The study io expected to take between six to nine months.



- 80 -                              ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 6
SRI LN
CMOLON0 URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Ex-2ost Evaluation and Nonitoring of Prolect Proeress
Part 1 - Hz-most Evalust-on of Traffic System (TSM) MaSnement Comnonents
1. *The ex-post evaluation of the TSM components wlll determine the e"tent
to which objectives arc achieved. Generally, performance indicators developed
for the evaluation wvil be the same a those used during project preparation.
In the event that objectives are not met and prewviously anticipated improvements
in performance are not achieved, the data would be used to identify why certain
TSM components had not been fully successful, and to draw on that experience for
application In the development of measures to be prepared for future transport
projects.
2.        Three schemes are involved In the evaluations (a) traffic system
management work along the Olcott Mawatha corridorl (b) the Fort area traffic
schemes; and (c) Marandana junction.
A. Olcott Navatha Corrldor
3.        The  Olcott  Mawatha  Corridor  presents  special  problems  in  the
evaluation of performance. The road and traffic works will take at least three
years to implement due to the difficulties of carrying out work on a heavily
trafflcked road while at the same time maintaining traffic and bus flows on this
major corridor. To maintain traffic flows, works will Involve a number of
contractsly  over varying time periods.   Traffic conditions during project
implementation (such as volumes, speeds, delay., etc.) will not be "normal" for
more than three years, and, therefore, it is not prectical to carry out
meaningful monitoring studies until all works are completes this is estimated to
be 1996. Clearly, botween 1993 ("before") and 1996 ("after"), there will have
been changes In levels of traffic, bus passenger demand, and ether foctors, due
to population and vehicle ownership growth and trends in economic activities.
4.        To measure the effectiveness of the TSM scheme, the ex-post evaluation
will Identify performance indicators "without" the scheme and "with" the scheme
(rather than "before" and "after"). 'Without" surveys will be carried out as
close to the start of first works contract as possible; the "with" surveys will
be carried out after the zompletion of the final contrect and when traffic
patterns have stabilized; this could be about three to six months after
completion.  'With' and 'without" analysis to assess effectiveness will be
carried out for 1993 and 1996 conditions by comparisons of indicators recognizing
11 The size of contracts is also determined by the capabilities of the
local construction industry.



ANNEX 9
- 81 -                         Page 2 of 6
the traffic level, whlch apply each time. The approach and the indicators to be
used are demonstratod in Tables 1 and 2 below.
Table Is Anoroch to Developnin  Indlcatoro for Evaluation
WITCOUT   CHEME    MEASURD                        CALCUIATED
INDICATOUS          From field surveys            From 1996 traffic and
physical data for
"without" schme
condition
"lIlT!' SCUZIEL¢L6EFES9F
INDICATORS          From 2993 traffic and         From field surveys
physical data for "vith"
schem condition
S.        After 1996, the Impact of the scheme will continue to be monitored by
carrying out similar surveys to those In 1996. In this case, traffic growth
between consecutive year. will be smaller and direct comparison of year-on-year
results can be obtalned. Surveys wlll continue to the end of the "deoign life"
of the TSM scheme (five years from the date of full opening).
63        The objectives of the Olcott Nawatha corridor scheme are to improve
bus and othor traffic performance, increase road capacity, and promote road
safety.  It is proposed that the success of the scheme in achieving these
objectives be assessed by developing the "with" and "without" indicators, shown
in Table 2 belows



ANNEX 9
- 82 -                        Page 3 of 6
Tabe 2:  Indicators for olcott Nawtha
< - ; ; ;t ~~~~Rj~7* (1995) :aBT
Surveys (and thus indicators) will be carried
out between Technical College  junction and the
1 *  Bus Journey        Olcott Kavatha/Lotus Road junction to derive average
Times or Speeds   speed over the whole route for buses and for private
vehicles. Surveys will be of one-week duration, in
and                both directions of travel, in the AM, off- and PM
peak periods and on weekdays. Travel data will be
2.   Private Vehicle   collected so that intermediate times/delay along the
Journey Times or  route can be identified.
Speeds                  Traffic volumes by type of vehicles and bus
passenger volumes will be counted over the same time
periods at key route sections.  Automatic traffic
counters supplied unde! the project will be used to
supplement manual counts and surveys.
3.  Junction                 Traffic  volumes,  traffic  turning  counts,
Capacity ("level  saturstion flows and junction delay surveys will be
of Service")       carried out at the four major intersections along
and                Olcott Mawatha (Technical College, W. E. Baotian
4.  Junction Delay    Mawatha, Fort Station and Lotus Road) to enable
l_____________________ performance assessment at the junction.
5.  Accident Records         Collection of accident records will be part of
the day-to-day work of the CfC&/ based on the
"without" data to be collected by the traffic
police, and retrospectively coded.   To determine
accident trends, it is necessa-y to assess data over
a considerable period before trends can be confirmed
(although short term accidert data can be valuable
In resolving Immediate problems.   Thus, accident
data wlli be collected and analyzed, but final
trends cannot be determined until some two or three
years after the implementation of the TSM.
2/ Colombo Municipal Council.



- 83 -                                     ANNE 9
Page 4 of 6
B. Fort Atea Junctions
7.        The program for the Fort are Junctions will be essentially the same
As that for the Olcott Mawatha corridor. Although the construction period of
this component will be considerably 1008 for eacek junction than for the Olcott
Hawatha corridor, traffic flows will be affected as a result of the works on the
Olcott Mbaatba corridor. Thus, the concept and timetable of "with" and "without"
surveys and analyses described in paragraph 4 and Table 1 will be followed.
Indicators will be similar to those shown in Table 2 as items 3, 4 and 5, namely,
Junction Delays, Junction Capacity, and Accidents respectively.
C.  Maradana junction
8.        Maradana Junction will require at least two and one/half years for
construction, and the approach to evaluation will be similar to that for the Port
Junction. However, the evaluation must recognize a further impact of the area:
Marsdana Bridge improvements to the junction will result in traffic diversions
(which is one of the major objectives and benefits of the proposal) and analysis
must recognize this effect. Thus, the type of indicators will be as set out in
Table 3.
Table 3: Indicatora for Naradana Junction
v- lwjn" Th  at            the               T  OT                       - -
's    Spfd Ca Man    and On  onqkey sd1v P routes wiU be ientd  (thr In number). loXume survey (avd
RhmawLsom            tsdcattws) wi be canted ovr ths tes to derv avera sped ove the whoe
rout (or buses and for pIvt vehicla;. Svs wi be of oweek duaion, in both
and                 diectou of tral iath AK off- ad PM peak pedods and on weekdsyu
Trafc (by tp) and bu Passenger Vole wmi be rveyed ame te Sam tim
2    Prvue Vcble Journey    erods at kute stions Auomatc trffc counters supplied under deo prect wi
Timmor Speds co_slmet m    counas and suvwyL
Dadm and Qll bllm
BMW
I    Junrio  apatydt   el of    Tafcvlme taic t ranfr3 ont, saturton o"s aNd ju   delay spres
Sevice) t Mod       wl be ald out at the junctilon to enable the junction ndikators to be ainessd
Idiatocould be asessed oan diven rufts but (a) the gaeral Ipac
and        tEwl be Identid fm svey I an 2, and (b) th evalio prog must be kep
;1wt CC cpacti and rouies.
4.  insctIn D.1y at Mubm_a
S.   Aaldnt Records         CollecIon of acdent record wM be pen of the daytoday work of the CMC based
on the 'wou  date to be c d fom  the traffik po and rWerospecdty coded.
To detrne acden ltds, it neessy to ascm data movaa conasdeable period
batoe reads an be confirmed (altho short tm adent data can be Valuable in
resoing Immdit prolem). hus acddent data il b cole and analyzed. but
final tr   ne be determd untl som tw or three yar afterce opeumng
D. Action Plan for Evaluation
9.        Responsibility for execution of the evaluation program will rest with
CMC, assisted by consultants. Key action and schedules are as follows:
(a)  CMSC wi   carry out the "with"  and "without"  surveys  (agreed at
Nx otLa&Ions);



AM= 9
-84-                                  Page 5 of 6
(b) CMC to finalize survey procedures and survey format. (data collection
forms and analysis procedures) to be agreed with IDA by
. . . a . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 . 9 * . .   . June 15, 1993
(c) CMC will finallUe owithout" survey schedule fors
*    Olcott Eawatha by. ........ ... ... .June 30, 1993
*    Fort Junctions by.  ... .. ..... ....Ju                so,  1993
*    Maradna Junction by. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Juna 30, 1993
(d) CXC will carry out 1993 'without" surveys just prior to comeencement
of works on each component and with target dates fort
*    Olcott Mawatha by...  .O........   ctober 1, 1993
I     Fort Junctions by. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . October 1, 1993
3    Maradana Junction by. . . . . . . . . . . . . .October 1, 1994
(e) CC will complete a "wthout" Survey Report for:
-    Olcott tawaths by. . . . . . . . . . . 3 monthe after surveys
- Fort Junctions by. . ................  3 month. after surveys
*    Maradans Junction by. . . . . . . . . . 3 mothes after surveys
(f) CXC will carry out "with" surveys for after traffic condition. have
stabilized and with target dates fort
*    olcott Mawatha by. . .. .. . . . . . ....  9June 3O, 1997
*    fort Junctions by ................ June 30, 1996
*    Marsadna Junctiou by. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .June 30, 1996
Part 2 - Monitortnu of Pro1ect Proareas
10.      Monitoring of project progress will involve two separate, but related
activitiess (a) monitoring physical implementation: and (b) monitoring project
costs expenditures and disbursements.
11.      Monitoring of the physical implementation of the project will be the
responsibility of the CMC under the direction. of the Project Monitoring
Counittee (PUC). CMC will establish the target Indicators and completion dates.
Typical indicators will bes
For Works and rALBulents
*   Start/finish dates for final engineering design and documentst
*   For Issue of bid documentsa
* Date of Contract Signaturel and
*   Start/finish dates.



AM= 9
-a8ge 6 of 6
For -IntitutIonal Meansus (ltechnical aeistance ana studiesi:
*   CoMpletio  of terms of ref erencg
*   issue of invitations to consultants;
*   ceancement ad completion of consultants employment andlor
studisl; and
*   Implementation of result.
12.       Tho proposod physical progressw for the Olcott M&wtha corridor, Fort
Junctions and Maradab  Junction and institutional maures are give.n In Anex 10.
To man"tait control of tho project schedule, the PMCLV will be lnvolved (as well
as the CMC, Ttaff ic Police, Sri Lasa Ra-Ivsy., ational Transport Commission,
at al).  SPC will receive and consolidate the agency reports into the semi-
annual progreso reports to be sent to IDA. TSPC would compare progress with
component schedule targets antd cordinate actions to resolve any lmplementation
delays which may have arisen and adjust schedules, a required.
13*       TSPC will be the project coorditntor, functioning as the PC' s
Secretariat.  In the case of CMC componentst TSPC wil define the necessary
format for financial reporting (committed, payments made, disbursesents requested
and received, etc.), obtain the data and consolidate them with others to prepare
the quarterly reports to be sent to IDA.
l Transport Studies and Planning Center (TSPC) as Its Secretariat.



- 86 -
19as I o£ 2
cot~m  UANTRAN3POK?r I1JKM
(USt million)
1)A Fl scal Year      Diaburamuta   Cumulative    Cu!aeaUttv             Proftl. S
and S_ eter            in Smester   Disbursemems  Percntagp  CouauxyW 2nd RdAs .  (Actual)
June 30, 1993              0.0              0.0          0.0       2.0         12.1
DemeSber 31, 1994          1.7h             1.7          8.5       4.0        14.6
Jun 30, 1995               0.7               2.4        12.0       9.0         23.8
t995
December 31, 1995          2.0              4.4         22.0      16.0        31.3
June 30, 1996              2.0              6.4         32.0      24.0        40.4
'99'
December 31, 1996          3.3              9.7         48.5      32.0        50.8
June 30, 1997              3.3             13.0         6S .      40.0        68.8
December 31, 1997          3.0             16.0         80.0      48.0        78.3
Jun  30, 1998              2.9             18.9         94.5      56.0        95.8
1.998
December 31, 1998          1.0             19.9         99.5      63.0        99.6
June 30, 1999              0.1             20.0        100.0      71.0       100.0
J/   A 7%-year profile. At 6% years, 861 dlsbursed and at 7% years, 1001 disbursed.
~/    Actual 4isburse_ ncs in 5% years (from FY86 to FY91).
3/   PPF pay-off amounc of USM1.2 million plus US$0.5 million retroactive fizuacing of
consuleancy services.



- 87 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 2 of2
Ci_f
9.i                                    I                      t    i   



- 88 -
Plap I of 3
Ths stff input lndicated in the table below la In addition to regular
supervlsion at headquarters for procuroment reavlew, correspondence, and review of roports,
which is  stimted at 16 staff-weeks per year during the project Iplemp    to  year
with total 80 staff wooks.
ppoImate                                                                Staff
Dates               Activity                     Skill Needs            Weeks
June 1993     - Project lauc  workshop         - Transport  conomist         4
- Expedits start-up             - Trafflc Management
- Revlew consultant               Expert
selectlon process
October       - Revw       ur nt progress   - Transport  SconomiSt             6
1993          - Review progress on bus         - Traffic   ge t
privatization                   EZxprt
- Review consultantsa work l      Railway Restructuring
progrems for Colombo Urban      Specilist
Transport Study & Railway
____    ~Restructuring                        _     _     _     _
February      - Ipect works                    - Trasnport Economist          6
1994          - Rvw procureent progress   - Trafflc Manageuciat
Specialist
- Review progres on Colombo    - Air Quality  _aagemet
Urban Tranport Study, Aix       Specialist
Qulity Managment Study,
Bus Privatization & Railway
_ _ _ _ _ _   R eatr sctu rln                _ _    _   _ _   _   _
Jun  1994     - Inspect works                  - Transport Economit            4
- Rev1w cost estimtes,          * Traffic eMagent
procurement status, studies,    Specialist
bus privatization and rail-
way restructuring
- Update Action Plan for the
I_  followig year



- 89 -
A=UJI
Page 2 of 3
October       * Inspect progress and quality  - TraLsport Economist          4
1994            of civil vork.                - Trafflc Management
- Revie't compliance with Plan    SpecialLst
of Action
- Review traLinng progress
February      - InT.pect works                - Transport Economist          4
1995          - Updste cost estimates         * Bridge Engineer
- Review progress on studies
June 1995     - Amual impl entation Review  - Transport Economist            4
- Update Action Plan for the    - Trafflc Management
following year                  Specialist
Deeember      - Kid-term project              - Transport Economit            8
1995           implemetation review           - Traffic Managent
- In-depth review of all          Specialist
project components: evaluate  - Bridge Engineer
progre"s, compare with the    - RaLaway Restructuring
orlginal targets set and the    Spec$alist
project cost estimates made
in the SAR and assess the
likelihood of completing the
project before the Closing
Date
- Recoommnd actLons needed to
recover any delays, as
appropriate
- Update cost estites and
ascertaln that sufficient
furds are available to
complete all the project
___________ components
Jun. 1996     - Amal Implementation Review  - Transport Economist             8
- Update Action Plan for the    - Traffic Management
followLng year                  SpeclalSst
- BrLdge Eagn8ier
- Air Quality Managemeat
Specialist
December      - Inspect works                 * Transport Economist           8
1996          - Update cost estimates         - Traffic Managemnt
Specialist
* Review study progress,        - Brldge Engineer
training and railway          - Railway Restructuring
t  restructuring                   Specialist



- 90 -
Pap 3 of 3
June 1997     - AnMual DRpleeantation  aview  v Transport Eoonomist             8
- Update Action Plan for the    - Traffic  anament
following year                   Specialist
* Bridge Engineer
* Railway RestructuNrAg
Specialist
December      - Inspect works                  . Transport Economist            8
1997          . Update cost estimates          - Traffic 1anagment
Specialist
- Discuss implementetion of      . Bridge Eginer
Urban Transport Study
findings
* Discuss Implementation of      - URilway Restructuring
Railway Privatization Study      Specialist
_   findings
June 1998     - Review completion of the        - Transport Economist           8
project
- Assess Final cost estiates   - Traffic MaNagement
Specialist
- Discuss Preparation oZ PCR    - Bridge Engineer



- 91 -
AXQ12
Page 1lof 16
COL.QMO URAN TWFISPORT PROJ2CT
economic Evaluatioa of the Proi at
A. Calculation of Ecognmgc Costs
1.        The costs  of the project include construction,  rehabiitation,
equipment and maintenance costs. To the financial costs of the project, the
following adjustments were made to obtain economic costst (a). customs duties on
imported items amounting to 15-601 were subtracted; (b) Busiess Turnover Tax
amounting to 5.51 was also removed; (c) labor costs were reduced by 11.92 to
account for payroll taxems and (d) the local sales prices for fuel were 0.juwted
downward by 35.5S to bring them in line with the border prices.U The specific
costs used in the economic evaluation are given in the respective section dealing
with each benefit category.
3. Calation of Econamic Benefits
2.        The quantified economic benefits of the project are composed of:
reduced vehicle operating costs and pasaeager time savings. These benefits have
been calculated separately for the Traffic System Management (TS0) program in
Fort, Olcotz Mawatha rehabilitation and Maradana Junction improvements using the
following methodologies.
3.        Traffic Analysit. To analyze present and future traffic flows in the
"with* and 'without' project cases, a traffic model (known as SATURN) developed
by consultants was used. The SATURN model's travel assignment function is based
on vehicle trip matrices derived from origin-destination data gathered during
roadside traffic surveys completed in 1985 and in 1990. For this evaluation,
1990 link volume produced by the model for the Fort and Pettah road network and
at Maradana Junction were calibrated to observed 1990 cordon traffic counts taken
at 5 strat._gic locations in the area. The traffic analysis for Maradana Junction
was undertaken by comparing link flows for the various schom combinations,
devised to relieve the lefel of congestion at this junction, and by considering
a series of cordons and screenlines to identify any changes in link flows ito
and out of the various sections in the project area. The link volumes for 1990
and the traffic forecast for 1995 are shown in Table 12.1, Ann x 12.
4.        Vehicle Ooerat=ng Costs:  The operating costs of the vehicles in the
Colombo area were derived from the most recent studies of vehicle operating costs
(VOC) In Sri Lanka carried out as part of the IDA-funded Road User Charges Study
(RUCS).    Thess costs were then adjusted to represent VOCs under urban
conditions in Colombo in different cougestion ranges.  The base VOCs were
I Fuel prices in Sri Lanka are set by the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation.
They have always been higher than world petroleum prices. The excess
profits are paid to the Governoent at varying rates and 35.51 (weighted
average of petroleum and diesel fuel prices in excess of border prices)
representc an additional tax on fuel.
I    Peter Arledge, Sri Lanka Road User Charges Studv, Transport Studies and
Planning Centre (TSPC), Colombo, October 1992, Chapter 6.



- 92 -
Page,2 of 16
developed in the RUCS under unconstratned operating conditions for eight vehicle
types, as followst
Vehicle Cateary                      TSvlcal Vehielel
1. ear (Including taxis)                   Toyota Coroll
2. utility vehicle (van or pickup)         Toyota liace van
3. mall truck                              ITUZU Elf (6 ton)
4. modium truck                            Tata 1210 SE (19 ton)
S. 3-axle truck                            Nissan (12 ton)
6. *articulated truck                      Leyland/lissan (16 ton)
7. medium bus                              mitsubishi Rosa (29 seat)
6. large bus                               Tat 909 (45 seats)
I& Numbers in parentheses are capacities.
Relevant data were gathered in the RUCS for each of these vehicles an then the
tM-ITT model was used to calculate the total vehicle oPerating costs for each
vehicle type. Using the 1DM III model, VOCs for two roughness levels (tEl 3 *sd
III 6) without congestion were devived for each vehicle type, as shown in Table
12.2. From these numbers, the VOCs for various road surface roughness conditions
with and without the project scenarios were calculated (Table 12.2)
5.        Congestion costs are significant in urban vehicle operation and
therefore the base uncongested VOCs were adjusted for different levels of
-angestion as experienced in Colombo.  The congestion levels In Colombo  ere
calculated  from  the  results  of  the  modelling  studies  carried  out  by
consultants.11 This is summarized in the following table for: (a) average 2-
lane radial arteries; (b) typical urban streets with capacities of 3200 passenger
car units (pcu) of traffic per hour; and (c) Olcott Mawatha with capacities
varying from 850 to 2500 pcu per hour.
U    Average speed-flow relationships for the radial routes serving Colombo
were calculated in the Transport Sector Plannina Study (TSPS) by Louis
8erger International and WS Atkins luternational in 1986, and speed-flow
relationships for the Olcott Mawatha were calculated In the Olcott
Kawatha Rehabilitation Feasibility Study by WS Atkins International In
August 1991.



- 93 -
ANIt 12
Page 3 of 16
.[TRA1C. .VOLU:', ,AIh ' :R- ,                     STRu.. .:0T A~A
;.APACITTE  I UCtLx SPEEf  (iCiZ *SEW4                       1LEPES?Wf
0.0 - 0.5              39.2                  32.1                 25.0
0.5 - 0.6              34.4                  28.2                 21.9
0.6 -0.7               31.2                  25.5                 19.7
0.7 - 0.8              28.0                  22.8                 17.5
0.8 - 0.9              21.5                  18.9                 16.2
0.9 - 0.95             15.0                  15.0                 1S.0
6.        The adjustment of VOCs for congestion effects was made In three &rOas2
(a) fuel costs; (b) other distance-related costs; and (c) time-related costs.
Fuel costs were adjusted by first calculating the fuel consumption at different
speeds for an average vehicle (small diesel truck) using the EDM-Ill VOC submodel
and determining the fuel consumption factor relating to vehicl, speed for each
of the volume/capacity ratios listed above. This fuel consumption figure was
then multiplied by a congestion factor which roflects the difference between
operations at constant speeds and operations under congested conditions requiring
frequent speed changes. This second congestion factor Was taken from recent
research results in Indi*U for two lane roads (see table bdsow). The other
distance-related costs (oil, tire and repair costs) were adjusted by taking ona
third of the congestion factor for fuel (a more conservative estimate than the
1002 of the congescion factor suggested by the Indian researcher), as shawn in
the same table.   Ptnally, the tim-related congestion cost factors wer
calculated by using the DDM-Ill VOC submodel to estimate the reduction in: (a)
annual overhead and interest costs per kilmeoter due to increaosd anAal
k1lometrage (i.e., higher productivity of vehicles); and (b) depreciation costs
per kilometer over lifetime kilometrage of vehicles made possible by increased
speed under the project.tL The average factor for these time-related costs vas
determined through a series of 5D1-UII runs which demonstrated that for average
Sri Lsnkan vehicle costs, the percent reduction in time costs was closely related
to the percent reduction in time of travel with an elasticity of +0.27. The
resulting factors are summarized below for VOC components and passenger tlme.
L Average relationship for Colombo radils roads from the TSPS.
I Average of Olcott Mawatha and radial arteries, typical for Fort.
SU   Sections 2, 3, 4 and S. Sectiou 1 Is close to the urban street
relationship.
"    L. R. Kadiyali and Associates, Undatina Road User Cost Data, Final
Report, Ministry of Surface Transport Roads Wing and Asian Development
Bank, New Delhi, November 1991. The street conditions in terms of
vehicle mix, road width and side frictions tested in India are similar
to those observed in Colombo.
I    The reductior, in depreciation costs per kilometer can be related to the
decrease In vehicle fleet needed to accomplish the same number of trips
per year in the case of buses or trucks.



- 94 -
Page 4 of 16
CON=G1ESTION TACT-F.R 10:OLONlO RADIAL ROADS Is
TRic~:~        l 'L YACTO---  --                                1
*..  ;''' '.*  .x..                    rsANz    hJ,aa&4
0.0 - 0.5      1.26     1.06          1.02           1.10           1.37
0.5 - 0.6      1.38     1.20          1.07           1.1S           1.57
0.6 - 0.7      1.50     1.29          1.10           1.20           1.73
0.7 - 0.8      1.64     1.38          1.13           1.25           1.92
0.8 - 0.9      2.05     1.47          1.16           1.41           2.51
0.9 - 0.95    2.83      1.53          1.18           1.70           3.60
g   For buses    availiTng at average spee s on Col la radil ro ad*    .       Efctors
are higher for Olcott Mawatha sections 2-5S
The net result of the application of these factors in the Colombo area Indicates
a variation of VOCs from 12-242 over base costs for good conditions and 96-1562
over bass costs for the eost congested conditions. Passenger time costs vary
over an even greater range from 1801 to 2602 for the most congested conditions
(excluding stopping time which would increase congestion time costs even more).
The VOC and passenger time costs obtained for the different operatiag conditions
and each vehicle type on Colombo radial roads, roads in Fort and on Olcott
Nawatha are given in Table 12.2.
7.        Vehicle OOeratinft Cost S w inas:  Savings in VOC vere computed for the
Fort, Olcott Mawatha and Varadana Junction project componaents by determining the
number of vehicles per day in the Colombo transport system that would be affected
by each project component and the congestion conditions that would prevall on
each of the affected roads. The veighted average VOC& for each road section were
then calculated for peak and off-peak periods, with different congestion factors
applied according to the level of congestion with and without the project. The
difference in VOCs with and without the project were multiplied by the number of
vehicles forecast on each road for the years 1995 ant 2000 and the results were
iaterpolated to find the annual VOC savings for each year over the.life of the
project.
8.        Passenfer Time-Value:  The value of passenger time in the Colombo area
vas calculated in the recent RUCS cited above.2 The method employed in thls
study was based on the weighted average income values for bus, car and motorcycle
passengers (rail passengers are assumed to have the sme tim  value as bus
passengers), where the income values are taken from the Bank of Cc7ylon 1981-82
Socic-Economic Survey results. The sociO-economic characteristies of passengers
were obtained from travel surveys in 1989. These iacome values were adjusted
upwards (by 9O0) for work time trips and downwards (by 802) for non-work time
trips, in accordance with the travel time-income relationships found in the
research studies conducted in India, Brazil and Kenya. The value of tim for car
and motorcycle passengers (excluding drivers) was c*lculated from statistics on
household income for vehicle owners, with car owne ; falling into the upper S1
U    Peter Arledge, Road User Charges Study, 1992, Appendices 6-4.



-95-
12
Page S of 16
of household incomes and motorcycle drivers falling Into the upper 152 of
household incomes  The resulting travel time values ares
Weighted
Passenuet Tse    Time Value
(ts.. per hour)
Motorcycle              18
Car                     36
Bus, rail or truck       7
9.        The results of the RUCS, as suarixed in the preceding table, were
cross-checked against other consultant studies l Sri Lanka and recent research
on passenger preferences.8L These comparisons showed general agreement on the
magnitude of the time values, particularly for bus passengers, despite the
differences in methodology employed (passenger perception vs* income analysis).
This lends credibility to the claims of robustness for the results of the RUCS
on this analysis.
10.       Savinro in Passenser Time Value: The savings in passenSer time value
for each project coWponent were calculated in a manner similar to the VOC
savings. The total travel times on the Colombo road network with and rithout the
project -were determined from the computer modelling exercise and the times were
related to different vehicle types according to the traffic composition on the
affected roads. The average vehicle occupancy was then used to compute the
savings in time by vehicle category and multiplied by the appropriate value per
hour as calculated above. The total value of passenger time savings was then
calculated by adding the results for all vehicle categories and summarized on an
annual basis for each project component.
11.       Economic Evaluation Mheehodst  Tn order to evaluate each component of
the proposed project, a Nlt Present Value (NPV) and an Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) were calculated. The NPV and the ERR of each coWponent investments were
computed by discounting all costs and benefits over the life of the project (15
years). No residual value was assumed for rehabilitation works or equipment at
the end of the project life. The results of these calculations are described
below.
C. Evaluation of Fort Junction samrovements
12.       Proiect Costs: The economic costs of this cqmponent are composed of
construction, equipment and maintenance costs. The construction and equipment
costs are summarized below for the one-year implementation period.
L  Reported in "Intercity Pessenger Travel - Sri Lanka" by A. Kumarage et
al., University of Moratoba, 1989.



- 96 -
Pasg 6 of 16
Economic Investment C0ots
er            Construction      EZuloment          Total goat
(mil. SRs.)      (mil. SRs.)        (til. SRs.)
1995              12.8             5.3                 18.1
1996              12.8             5.3                 18.1
Total             25.6             10.8                36.4
13.       The additional maintenance costs of the Fort Junction improv emet
component were computed by assuming that they would amount to 42 per annum of the
costruction cost over the life of the investment.
14.       Economic Benefits:   The economic benefits of the Fort junction
Improvement include savings in VOC and passenger time costs as summarized in the
following table.  These figures show that the most significant sources of
benefits are VOC savings (781) followed by passenger time savings (222).
Passenger time savings are not as large as usual for such improvements because
the additional queuing at junctions outside the Fort Area partially offsets the
improvement in travel time due to reduced congestion in Fort.
Passenger
VOC          Time         Total
toy Year     ftwin.s         hiaaang   Busnefita
(ail. SRs.)  (mil. SR..)  (nil. SR..)
1997         7.9           2.8          10.7
2002         27.5          7.5          34.9
2007/O       27.5          7.5          34.9
/a 2000 is the year of maximum benefit
15.       Economic Evaluation Results:  The detailed annual costs sad benefits
used in the economic evaluation are provided in Table 12.3. The mPY (at 10l
discount rate) of this component is estimated at SRs. 111 million and the ERR at
452.
D. Evaluation of Olcott dMwStba Rehabilitatlon
16.       Prolect Costss  The economic costs of this component are composed of
construction, equipment and maintenance costs. The construction and equipment
costs are summarized below for the five year construction period.



_ 97 -
Paig 7 of 16
Egonoami Investment Costs
x ^           Construto         soulvaent-         Total Coot
(mi. SRM.;       (mi. SRB.)        (mil. SR..)
1994              27.1             1.                  28.9
1995              54.4             3.7                  8. 1
1996              81.5             5.5                 87.0
1997             108.6             7.4                116.0
1998              16.11                               172 
Total            287.7            19.5                307.2
The  aintenane  costs of the Oleott tswatha rehabiltation component were
estimted to be an averag, of 12 per annum of the construction cost over the life
of the project.
17.       Sconoeui  Benefits:  The economic benefits of the Olcott Mawatha
rohablitation include savings in vehiles operating coasts and passenger tim
costs, as summarized in the following table  These nmb. rs show that VOC savin':
an  passenger tim  are equally significant sources of boenfits in early years,
but passenger time savings increase in later year. to about 65. Passenger tin
savings are especially important in later years as traffic congestion would
increase without the project.   The VOC savings, making up about 35  of total
benefits, are dominated by the improvemnt in surface roughness, with some
beefits due to the reduction of congestion.
PaJsenger
ICC          Tim         Total
Rev  Ygat     S nQAS       Sayvlnrs    Benefits
(mil. SRs.)  (mil. SU.s)  (mil. SRs.)
1998/&       17.2         37.8         39.4
2003         59.9         91.5         151.4
2008         72.1        151.6         223.7
/A Relf year o operation.
18.      ecnolmc Evaluation Results: The detailed annuIa costs and benefits
used in the  coosmic evaluation are provided in Table 12 4.  The NPV (at 10Z
discount rate) of this component is estimated at SRs. 507 million and the ERR at
282.
E Evaluation of Maradana Junction Rehabilitatlon
19.       Proieet Costs:  The econodic costs of this component are composed of
construction, equipment and maintenance costs. The construction and equipment
costs are summarized below for the four year constructic±a period.



- 98 -
AM=E 12
Page 8 of 16
Economic Investment Costa
Zsaz~~~~~~~                      .    . _         Al . . _.SM
Year      ~Cgnstruce40n      RauImRS  Te otal Cogt
(nil. SUs.)      (ail. SRO.)        (ail. SRO.)
1995              84.0               4.7               88.7
1996              84.0               4.7               88.7
1997              41.9               3.5               45.4
1998               8 3             _I£                --9
Total            218.2              14.5               232.7
20.       The  additional  maintenance  costs  of  the  Maradan, Junction
rehabilitation component were computed by assuming that the maintenance costs
would amount to 0.5Z per sanum of the construction costs on average over the life
of the project.
21.       Economic Benefits:  The economic benefits of the Maradana Junction
rehabilitation include savings in vehicle operating costs and passenger time
costs, as summarized in the following taja.. These figure show that VOC savings
are the most significant source of benefits (602), followed by passenger time
savings (40S).
Passenger
VOC          Time         Total
Key Year      Sav4ass      $4vins       &ensf4ts
(ml. SRs.)  (mil. SR.)  (nil. SRs.)
1997/i       15.6          9.1            24.7
2002         45.8         29.4            75.2
2007         55.5         37.3            92.9
/g Half year of operation.
22.       Econmic Evaluation iesults:  The detailed annual costs and benefits
used in the economic evaluation are provided in Table 12.5. The NPV (at 102
discount rate) of this component is estimated at SRs. 199 million and the ERR at
24Z.
F. Sensitivity Analysis
23.       A sensitlvity analysis was carried out iu order to assess the level
of risk associated with higher construction costs or reductions in potential
benefits or construction delays and high costs (Table 12.6). The results of the'
analysis show that the subprojects are all relatively robust with respect to
variations )f +202 in. costs, -202 in the main sources of benefits, construction
delay of one yesai and the combined effects of high costs and eonstruction delays.
This conclusion is supported by a switching value analysis which shows that it
vwuld take cost increases of over 1001 or benefit decreases greater than 50 to
reduce the economic return to the level of Sir Lanke's opportunity cost of
capital. (102).



_ 99
ANNEZ 1
Table 121
Page 9 Of 16
Modified Uink Flow (1990 and l93fl
(PCUuHour)
..~~1.
Marine Drive                   104-107          730         730       1680
Church Street                  107-108            0           0       1290
Leyden Basion Road            108-109          1940        2020       2290
LotusRoad                      109-110          115         40         400
110-112         3290        3730       3310
112-114          720         830        710
Janadhipathi Mawatha           104-115          2750       2830       1920
115-116         2300        2490       1360
116-117         2310        2320       1160
Sir Baron Jayataka Mawatha     117-109          1860       2200       1980
Mudalige Mawatha              118-116            10          10         10
YorkStreet                     112-113         2870        3010       1120
113-119         2630        2490        800
119-118         2320        2420       2300
118-117         2320        2110       1950
117-108         1870        1870        880
Chatham Street                 110-119         3000        3000       1440
119-115          1950       2090       2050
Canal Row                      113-114           195        210        130
Main Street                   106-109          3430        4040       4220
Olcott Mawatha                 102-110         4270        4770       4670
A3irCaGardlnerMawatha         123-111          3690       4120        4010
111-112         5380        5410       4340
Dr. Wijerwardena Mawatha       103-111         2300        2500       2410
Galle Face Road               701-104          2970        3310       3450



coeiNm  asaau u*AUw0I pojcy
ase Vhicle Opatin COStS /I
twoS per I'M6 km)
ugssa.*aanaaaa-- se-aa- kausamauiuua M.z-w"g^aus8u.$saaamamaua.u.ausag-auss- aun.aaaaflauJuflaaaa                us.,.Z                                       u.uaasaaa C* u
cv               stItlv l ul        l -si tnas    tam  tnick        3-a* tnmi           wt. _tnu          mdl. 1m            two km
tcca.IU 513*  88124    Ul53 J                     *6 ICI3 4386    le8 I    li 26    Its                  I I  le336    fat5  3186  * 13    lIUA        3 I1     lt 6
tetal                          4n3      S50S     4366    4*        4697     5224     658       7401     9669   tO?St   82416    Ism3        889      06S    Ut1126I    1960
fuel             II6S                     as8 8   929      95S      1342     1374    194       1998    2264      2353     2730    2629      13w      141      161S     1901
£.*ticants                        O       74       so       93       80       9        106      t9       106      11      168 1we           106      18t      106      1"9
tires                            a         5      262      27       526      SS4      *4       "91      144       523 s   99       1998      077      925      a        92n    I
Oslften#c8 labor                849      812      otS      235       is?      254      34Z      435      47       596      553      611      m        306      3Su      431
*aint_erac parts                327      493      379      5S3      4*2       742      i57     1165     1418     2170     t622     2S04      516      1 "2     761      104S5
eabtotal dist.-reglaed        t48      1749      638     2138     2617    2997    4042    4648         7m       6161    nM        t52      3115     3S06    3945    4420
crew                             30       3t       167      815      SOo      523      555      572      542      S60     S2       S54      44       441t     41       420
Pesseners                      1261      126S     932      9n        137      141      149      154        0        0        a        0     3S35     3016     S2S9    sil0
d   oSICtIen                   960      964       702      707      66       669      1S?      161     9337     l43      9776 m19           66?      67       429       632
intor tt                        229      736      Ss?      549      439      444       m 15      36     1296    13        186?     19Ms      4SO      463      614      628
OverI6 4i                       210      270      190      190       40S      45.      53*      53*      7        in      1e         1       49"      4*        41       43*
st*btotI time-related         3250     3286     2528     2s96      220      2227    2716    21n        3947    3990      s239     n32u    5084    S53O        n7 an
1 good to saderate tetraln  nds free floe tw tt ise  _ve  sursce, rmagvmes *s2oDD
54.C*2 sad User Charges Sg"4, oSPe 8992.
o
o% V
_-
a% 



- 101 -
~12
Pop 11 of 1s
CQLMB-O URBA TRANPRR
BASE VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS AND PASSENGER TIME VALUES
(1991 Sd Laidm Rupees per I100 ve4n)
(cond lcs)       roughe    motoyc '          cas       buses      tu
PRO
Olcott
with proJect       2.9           1058       3471        6600       6960
w/o proet          7.5           1169      s366         6173       6403
Maradana
with project      5.2            1109       3678        66          403
wlo projct         5.2           1109       378         S837       6403
Fort
with projec        .2            1109       3673                   6408
who projc          5.2           1109       3m7          67        6403
base panme costwIo gsor
project
(conditions)     rougnness  motorcycle       cars      buses       ucks
(1RI
Olcott
with project      2.9             819       1260        3923        360
w/o project       7.5             843       1297        4037        373
Maadana
with proct        5.2             831       1279        3980        362
w/o project       5.2             631       1279        3980        362
Fort
wth project       5.2             831       1279        390         362
wlo project        5.2            831       1279        3060        362



- 102 -
AN5~ 12
SQRT LAK& ATable 12.2C
_                  ffI           -_z=                                      Page 12 of 16
1.50    045  U.S    1.25  1.44  US  1.4     1.44    1.33    ~~~~~1.46    1.14    1.46
.0      0.54         21.*    1.41      1.5     1.71     1.56    1.64     1.ie     US      1.64    1.70
3.8     0.84         It7    1.3        1.77    165      1.66    1.82    1.70      1.70     .61    l.8e
3.4     3.7-45       17.5    1.6       I.S     LO$      2.0     LOS      1.65    15       2.0     2.11
an        *          163i   1.73       LOS    2'19      LIS  * I4    1r16         1.16    2.12    2M
3.6 06.1-"       18.     1.11      2.      2.4      2.4      341     2.80      16    2.3      U.5
swv.^8~fJm | iwo pea              mpow   UlF.                         |
as: ~ ~~onus  P62wWIhPtgs  lm
0-4. 10.0    1.               I.5      12J      .81     A1*    1.6       1.63    3.12    2.
01 ^06       21*     t   1.1           t.17    2. 9 2a  2.1      2.1      .1      24       .1
0t   7       I.?7   L1S        .O5    2."       2.54    2.34     3.        44    2.       271
0.7-08       1.5j   2.3       3.7      3.1     34       3.16  L             4    3.0t      14
0A-"          6.      49       U8      36S    .07    L8          2.6      14    3L       13
0G2-0.1      15.     2.0      4.8      U.8     3.33    3.07      8.13    3.2     3.53 5.0
0mro~    zw Wir th or S13.5    hus
e    0a45            3S      1.11      1.17     .4      t.23    1.20     1.17    1.19     LaJ.    13
1.35    Q.5-".       34.4    1.10    1I3       1.3      1.3    1IM       1.26    li0    1.34    17
IUO    G."?          3.      1.        1.39    1.46     1.47    1.45     13      1.36    1.45    1.49
1.6     0.7-QJ       26.I0 1.36        1.0      t 1  1.61    1J          1.51    t.50    16    1.4
35    0 ,-"          21.     1.43      1.64    1.74     1.72    1.66    1.61     1.60    1.66    1.75
SA1S   0.8-O.       ..       1.        2.      244    Z         3.41     LU      L1S    Z38    2.5
-5          31.2   t1         1.       1.49  12         1.17    1.0      1.23  t.35    1.40
0d5.        34.4    1.44      1t       1.6     1.45     1.34    1.37     1.40    1.54    1.
0.647        312    1.54      2.       1.66    1.60    1.47    1.t1      14      1.70    1.71
047-8       al0      1.e6     2.32    2.0      1.71     1.64     1.6     1.71    1.t6    I.6
0.5I        21        0 W31   10       3.L7    33       314    2.1       2.23    Z47    Li5
0d-95        1       la7      4.33     3.S7     33      30?      13      120     3.5      37
1.13    0-05         321     1.18      1.2     1.37     1.3    1*.3      1.27    t.2S     1.32    1.3
1.70    065-0        263    IO         1.44    1.53     1 M2    1.46     1.42    1.42    1.46    1.53
16      O."47        35      1.36      I.5     1.67     1.66    1.63    1.54     1.54    1.63    1.66
2.M      07-"8       2LU     1J0       1.71    US       1.ll3    tJ0     1.t8    1.67    1.79    1.l
23      O.-           6.     1.57      1.4    US9    1.04 1t1            1.71    1.77    1.10   lie
*113    0tO.9t       15.     1         22      24       344    Z.41    2.0    LI6           Z        1
Ofmt," Pat.U Wm PUA                                             ,2.m
0-0.5        3.0     1.81     2.50    L.83    2.0       1.64     1.65    1.23    Li13    LU
0.-6        21.9    1.1       2.t    LO        in3      ZtO    ZLtS      z19     243    2S1
0.647      1t.7    2.1        10        .94    2.54      34    23        24      Los 2z9   .7
7-08          M7.    a6       371    3.31    236    2.63        36i    z74    3.03    3.14
0.8-0        16.     Z49      3.       36       .07  z 82    z5          394    3.25    137
0-015                2.       4.33    3.8?    13 310            1.13     120    353    3.6
Pt.sPIou60eU501IuAi)                   6a        so       50      46      47       45      53  -
laWb.                                  st  tt 0eiOPgr toes. S    onHOM U m           u       .2r 
4i151555mmaiUsmhs lwrtije_ 056NU1 _ d                 t       lbs psua     t~cm I'U io   trwl
f2 g_lasdausesmseatrid



-103-
2M&12
Table 12.3
Page 13 of 16
Cglomnbo Urban Tmort Ptoje
P-t lmncd ns Eenfilt-Cost Anudi
(1992 Rs. mail)
In;estment Costs                        Benefits
VOC   ps. time   total    Net
Year Construction  Other Mainteance    Total Savings  savings  benefits Benefits
1993        0.0   0.0                  0.0                     0.0     0.0
1994        0.0   0.0                  0.0                     0.0     0.0
1995        12.8   5.3         1.4    19.5                     0.0   -19.5
1996        12.8   5.3         1.4    19.5     2.6     1.0     3.6   -15.9
1997         0.0   0.0         1.4     1.4     7.9     2.8    10.7     9.2
1998        0.0   0.0          1.4     1.4    12.0     3.9    15.8    14.4
1999                           1.4     1.4    18.1     5.4    23.5    22.1
2000                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
20(il                          1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2002                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2003                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2004                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2005                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2006                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2007                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2008                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2009                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
2010                           1.4     1.4    27.5     7.5    34.9    33.5
Total       25.6  10.6        22.4    58.6   343.1    95.6   437.5   378.8
NPV(10%)  111.3
ERR=       45.2%



-104-
Aime3 2
Table 12.4
Page 14 of 16
SRI LMME
Colalobo- Urban lMa&%=ft Prjec
Olco Mawafha &Mdecfios AD*lys
(1992 Rs. mil.)
Investment Costs                         Benefits
VOC   ps. dme   total    Net
Year  Conscon  Other Mainc            Total Savings  avings  benefits Beneits
1993         0.0   0.0                 0.0                       0.0     0.0
1994        27.1    1.8               28.9                       0.0   -28.9
1995        54.4   3.7                58.1             -5.5    -5.5   -63.6
1996        81.5   5.5                 87.0     0.0    -7.3    -7.3   -94.3
1997       108.6   7.4                116.0     0.0    -7.3    -7.3  -123.3
1998        16.1   1.1                 17.2    37.8    394    77.3    60.1
1999                           0.2     0.2    42.4    46.6    89.1    88.9
2000                           0.2      0.2    46.3    55.2   101.5   101.3
2001                           0.2      0.2    50.5    65.3   115.8   115.6
2002                           0.2      0.2    55.0    77.3   132.3   132.1
2003                           0.2      0.2    .9.9    91.5   151.4   151.2
2004                           0.2      0.2    65.2   108.3   173.5   173.3
2005                           0.2      0.2    70.9   128.1   199.0   198.8
2006                           0.2      0.2    77.0   151.6   228.6   228.4
2007                           0.2      0.2    74.5   151.6   226.1   225.9
2008                           0.2      0.2    72.1   151.6   223.7   V23.5
2009        15;0               0.2    15.2    94.2   151.6   245.8   230.6
2010                           0.2      0.2    91.7   151.6   243.3   243.1
2011                           0.2      0.2    89.3   151.6   240.9   240.7
2012                           0.2      0.2    86.8   151.6   238.4   238.2
Total       302.7  19.5         2.8   325.0  1013.6  1652.8  2666.6  2341.6
NPV(10%) -  506.8
ERR=          28.4



-105-
Am 12
Table 12.5
Page 15 of 16
SRI ELL'K
Colombo 1ZbaM lb==
Maadan Junction Beneflt-Cost ARAW
(1992 Rs. mil.)
Investment Costs                             Benefits
VOC    pS. time   total    Net
Year  Constuction  Othe  Maintence    Total  Savings  savings  benefits  Benefits
1993          0.0                          0.0                        0.0      0.0
1994          0.0                          0.0                        0.0      0.0
1995         84.0    4.7                  88.7              -1.6    -1.6    -90.3
1996         84.0    4.7                  88.7              -1.6    -1.6   -90.3
1997         41.9    2.4          1.1    45.4      15.6      9.1     24.7   -20.7
1998          8.3    0.5          1.1      9.9     34.3     20.5     54.8     44.9
1999                              1.1      1.1     37.8     23.1     60.9     59.8
2000                              1.1      1.1    37.8      23.1     60.9     59.8
2001                              1.1      1.1     41.6     26.1     67.7      66.6
-2002                              1.1      1.1    45.8      29.4    75.2    74.1
2003                              1.1      1.1    S0.4      33.1      83.6     82.5
2904                              1.1      1.1    55.5      37.3      92.9     9!.8
2005                              1.1      1.1    55.5      37.3     92.9      91.8
2006                              1.1      1.1    S5.5      37.3      92.9     91.8
2007                              1.1      1.1    55.5      37.3     92.9      91.8
2008                              1.1      1.1    55.5      37.3      92.9     91.8
2009                              1.1      1.1     55.5     37.3      92.9     91.8
2010                              1.1      1.1    55.S      37.3      92.9     91.8
2011                              1.1      1.1    55.5      37.3      92.9    91.8
To ta        218.2   12.3         16.5    247.0    707.3    459.6   1167.8   920.8
NP V(10%) - 198.8
ERR           23.8



- 106 -
AE 12
Tabla 12.6
Page 16 of 16
Subproject     Base Case . Other     Variation                     VPV       ERR
Scenwalos                                           (101)     (Z)
_.~~~~~~~~(s
____ ___ ___ _   _ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ m illio n )
Port           Base Case                                           111        45
Hlgh Costs            +201 investment costs         106        40
Delay                 I year                        113        44
Delay and High Costs                               108         39
Low Benefits          -201 congestion improvement   82         38
Base Case                                          462         25
{MaV.sjILand    High Costs           +201 investment costs         418        22
IPlStah        Delay                 1 year                       489         26
Delay and High Costs                               451         24
Low Benefits          Increased road roughness      321        21
due to bad maintenance
=azandana      Base Case                                           199        24
|Juncton       High Costs            +201 investment costs         167        20
Delay                 1 year                        155        20
Delay and High Costs                               124         17
Low Benefits          -201 congestion improvement  126         19
Swtc  alues.
Subproject                  Change in Benefits          Change in Invesment Costs
Olcott Mawatha                 -531                        +2151
Fort                           -731                        +390%
karadana Junction              -58                           26%
Changes necessary to reduce the sybproject NPVS to zero.



- 107 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
SRILAK
COLOMBO URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect F1le
A.  Selected Retorts and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
Al.       Sri Lanka Transport Sector Planning Study, January 1988:
*    Volume 1  Introduction and Intermodal Planning
*    Volume 2  Railways
*    Volume 3  Buses
*    Volume 4  Highway Maintenance and Road User Charges
*    Volume 5  Greater Colombo Urban Transport System
A2.       Sri Lanka Transport Sector Memorandum, June 1991 (Report No. 8962-CE).
A3.       Transport Studies and Planning Center, Sri Lanka Road User Charges
Studs (Draft final Report), December 1992.
A4.       Asian Development Bank, Sri Lankan Urban Sector Profile, Water Supply
and Urban Development Division (West), Infrastructure Department,
January 1991.
A5.       W. S. Atkins, Baseline Road Feasibility Study, January 1991.
B. Selected Renorts and Studies Relatina to the Proiect
B1.       W. S. Atkins, International, Initial Traffic Study of Fort and Pettah,
Colombo, Sri Lanka, October 1990.
B2.       W. S. Atkins, International, Olcott Mawatha Feasibilitv Study, October
1991.
B3.       W. S. Atkins, International, Colombo Road Rehabilitation Proiect.
Maradana Junction: A Discussion Document, July 1986.
B4.       W. S. Atkins, Study for the Imorovement of Maradana Junction, Colombo,
Sri Lanka, January 1992.
BS.       W. S. Atkins, Colombo Municinal Council:  A Strate2v for Development
in 1991.
B6.       W. S. Atkins, Colombo Municial Council:  Institutional Develonment
Prozram, June 1992.



- 108 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
B7.       London Transport International, Restructurint of the Bus Ogerating
Indust=y in Sri Lanka, November 1989
Bg.       Ernst & Young, PgonizationZftivatiZation Straegy for the Ekala
Central Bus Aodv Buildine Workshop, October 1991.
B9.       J.  C. Rooney and K.  R.  Ziebarth,  ITmlementation Plan for the
Restructuring of the Sri Lanka Railwav, June 1992.
B10.      Sri Lanka Railways, Draft Business Plan, 1991.
Bll.      CANAC Internation, Inc., Modernization and Develoument of the Sri
Lanka Government Railwav SXstem, May 1992.
Volume 1 - Organizational Design
- Real Estate Development
= Management Information System
Volume 2 - Job Documents
312.      Central Environmental Authority, Clean Air 2000, 1992
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl.       Detailed Target Procurement Schedule.
C2.       Computer Printouts showing economic analysis of the Fort, Olcott
Mawatha (Pettah) and Maradana Junction improvements.
*3.       Sri Lanka Railway Investment Program:  Economic Analysis.
04.       Detailed terms of reference for the Colombo Urban Transport Study and
Air Quality Management and Monitoring Study.
C5.       Sri Lanka Railway, Force Seduction Study (draft), 1991.
C6.       UNDP Project Document: Transgort Planninm- and Training Assistance,
1992.



IBRD 24659
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO URBAN
TRANSPORT PROJECT
COLOMBO TRANSPORT NETWORK
SeIBR        T-4660   H 2 AREA   OlSnacot
I     S     %  I  *
oLO    PROJECT COMPONENTS          -0
MAIN ROADS                               Kumar m   Ma ta
SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
~-  RIVERS AND STREAMS
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARY
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
0rA         11  2 n3                               WR1
KILOMETERS'
say of
-fvt    /|   SRA    1993
- / ~LANKA %lA\| \
Coombo   ). '<                          \N\/           -pt7e W wto# ne\
Indian                                                    *                                   ia .adu~¢wX*"s~s,
t    _          .   . * 2es5E   ; w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mo do s atL.p4 oah._W now 1 mpa^stF Gof Th. Wod nkGp. ny 4st
.  H~~~~~-1        onf~~~schheonanols. Hsfbeo
APRUL1993



Colombo Horbor                                                              SRI LANKA                                             8oy  of
I  , /  ;COLOMBO URBAN
/ II   ,TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                    Bengol
I  <    >;./r- // ,,PROJECT AREA
/7           Q  rS e XW '8,,FORT INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS       /
-  PROJECT ROADS                                        SR
(7   MARADANA JUNCTION IMPROVEMENTS                      LANKA
I,                                                                                   % / 2-> J > r r X \ 9i    FORT STATION / PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
ROADS
V  I      v        X < t;tTRAILROADS                      I n d I a n
77 ~~~~~~~~  __                                                  - ~~~~~~~~~~AREA OF PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS     O ceon
trp*=B;~~~    ~   >  <         +      \     <     '   j  '  ":i T               AND FACILITIES
/1                                           V         a         --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY  _____________
0                              Tb..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ..p has boo.. prepord by The World Bank's stot  lo.slw"ly f,
0                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th. eon,,ro-c-.   o  roo., and i for M if,.tnmt.o  ow .f Th* World
'  \ as    \\    B as,    \\  Ay'             /                         X                  n   '                     1>u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f nytr,foyo,ay dotmn , cwoceo
~~.J   b)!~~~PE     EESTRIAN                                                                          >~
'0O  10,020,030,0 40,050         0\\\\t\                           \                                                                          -1 
_   METERS      \      \\    \\       \           t\      \~    \\   t                      /                     XRID EG  I



