                                Documentof
                             The World Bank
                                                 ReportNo. 26138




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                  SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA




                        THIRD ROADS PROJECT
                            (CREDIT 2183-CE)

               COLOMBO URBANTRANSPORT PROJECT
                             (CREDIT 2495-CE)

             COLOMBO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT
                             (CREDIT 2757-CE)

            YEAR 2000 EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                             (CREDIT 3162-CE)




                                June 13,2003




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
OperationsEvaluation Department

 Currency Equivalents
 Currency Unit= Sri Lanka Rupee(SLR)




 Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB        Asian DevelopmentBank                    LTTE  LiberationTigers of Tamil Eelam
BOC        Bank of Ceylon                           M&E   monitoringand evaluation
BOT        build, operate and transfer              MIS   managementinformation system
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy              MOF   Ministry of Finance
CBSL       CentralBank of Sri Lanka                 MOH   Ministry of Highways
CEA        CentralEnvironmentalAuthority            MTH   Ministry o f Transportand Highways
CMC        ColomboMunicipal Council                 MUPU  Ministry of UrbanPublic Utilities
CINTEC     Council for InformationTechnology        NCASL NationalConstructionAssociationo f Sri Lanka
CPI        consumerprice index                      NTC   NationalTransport Commission
DCS        Departmento fCensusand Statistics        OED   OperationsEvaluationDepartment
DFID       Dept. for IntemationalDevelopment        OP    (Bank) OperationalPolicy
ETFB       EmployeesTrust FundBoard                 PAD   ProjectAppraisalDocument
ERL        Emergency Recovery Loan                  PC    personalcomputer
ERR        economicrate of retum                    RCgDC RoadConstructionandDevelopment(Pvt) Ltd
GIS        geographic informationsystem             RDA   RoadDevelopmentAuthority
GOSL       Governmento f Sri Lanka                  SAR   StaffAppraisalReport
ICB        intemationalcompetitivebidding           SIDA  SwedishIntemationalDevelopmentAgency
ICR        ImplementationCompletionReport           SIPRI StockholmIntemationalPeace Research Institute
ID         institutionaldevelopment                 SWIFT Society for Worldwide InterbankTelecommunication
IDA        InternationalDevelopmentAssociation      TA    technicalassistance
IMF        InternationalMonetaryFund                UDA   UrbanDevelopmentAuthority
infoDev    Information for DevelopmentProgram       UOC   University of Colombo
IPSSL      Instituteof Policy Studiesof Sri Lanka   VOC   vehicleoperatingcosts   .
IT         informationtechnology                    Y2K   year2000
JVP        JanathaVimukthi Peramuna(Peoples
           LiberationFront)



 Fiscal Year
 July 1-June 30


 Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
 Director (Acting), Operations EvaluationDepartment      : Mr.Nils Fostvedt
 Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                 : Mr.Alain Barbu
 Task Manager                                            : Mr.Roy Gilbert

Summary

         Attached is the ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) preparedby the Operations
EvaluationDepartmenton the above projects.For the Third RoadsProject,the World Bank
approveda credit of US$42.5 million onNovember6, 1990, which was closed on December 31,
1998, six months later than planned, andUS$4.7 million was cancelled. For the Colombo Urban
Transport Project,the Bank approveda credit ofUS$20.0 million on May 18, 1993, which was
closedon June 30, 1999, as planned, and US$6.0 million was cancelled. For the Colombo
EnvironmentalImprovementProject,the Bank approvedacredit of US$39.0million on May 29,
1995, which was closedon June 30,2001, as planned, andUS$9.1 million was cancelled. For the
Year 2000 EmergencyAssistanceProject,the Bank approveda credit for US$29.0million on
January 19, 1999, which was closedonJune 30,2001, as planned, andUS$13.0 million was
cancelled.

         The Third RoadsProjectaimedto improve the operationof existing roadwaysaround
Colombo, and inthe southand west ofthe country through support for roadrehabilitation and
improvedplanning and oversight. No new roads were built.The project's main objectives were
achieved, albeit with shortcomings; mainly shortfalls inworks delivery, weak procurementoversight
and contractor performance.Roadsafety issues were also overlooked, andkey institutional goals left
unattained. Sri Lanka's ongoingconflict, that preventedgovernment focus upon agreedreforms,
underminedproject performance.The project was vulnerable to security restrictionsuponthe use of
explosivesthat preventedcontractors from quarrying aggregate neededfor roadrepairs, and
contractors' laborers' reluctanceto work inareas perceivedto be unsafe. The overall outcome of this
project is therefore ratedmoderatelysatisfactory.Sustainability is ratedas unlikelythrough lack of
ongoingmaintenanceandmeans to fund it.Institutional development impact is rated as modest;the
project led to little improvement inroadsector managementor how resources are appliedto it. Still,
Bankperformance is ratedsatisfactory mainly for the good quality at entry of this project. Borrower
performance i s also rated satisfactory, despite sometimes lethargic management of procurement.

         The ColomboUrban TransportProjectaimedto improve urbantransport inColomboby
removingphysical bottlenecks, and through urbantransport planning and institutional strengthening.
Ofthe four projectsreviewed here, this was the most vulnerable to andmost directly affected by the
conflict, The bombing of the CentralBank inthe heart of Colombo in 1996 ledto atight security
cordonaround severalblocks downtown, overriding the project's objective of easingtraffic flows in
that area. This meant that the project abandonedaltogetherthe major Fortjunction improvement,
which no longer made sense inthe new security environment. A city-wide traffic light system
acquiredfrom a sole source outsidethe project-instead of using project funds and ICB-performed
badly increasingbottlenecks.As with the Roads project, reforms did not get the attentionthey needed
from a government preoccupiedwith the on-goingconflict. Onthe other hand, the project did help
prepare a comprehensivetransport planfor Colombo, but resources were inadequatefor its
implementation. For not achieving its major objectives but still producing a few worthwhile results,
the overall outcome ofthis project is ratedmoderatelyunsatisfactory.Sustainability is ratedas
unlikely;Colombo's urbantransport problemsare likely to get worse before they improve whether
security is relaxedor remainstight. Institutional development impact is rated negligible;there is still
no efficient means to apply resources to Colombo's urbantransport. Bankperformance was
unsatisfactory;poor quality at entry with a designcommitted to reforms-a      legacy of a larger,
abandonedproject-not supported by the borrower and lacking instruments to achievethem.
Borrower performance is also rated unsatisfactory; procurementwas protracted, sometimes
featuring ad hoc acquisitions.

         Similarly, the ColomboEnvironmentalImprovementProjecthadambitious objectives,
conceivedwithout regardfor the on-goingconflict. The operationsought significant reforms in
environmentalmanagementby enhancingColombo's urbanenvironmentthrough a sanitary solid waste

management, de-pollutingthe maincity waterway(the BeiraLake), strengtheningpublic sector
environmental institutionsandmobilizing privatesector participation.None ofthese objectiveswas
achieved. Local oppositionpreventedprogress on solidwaste management.While some sewerage
works were completed,their impactonthe BeiraLake is not evident; systematic M&Eof its water
quality was not undertaken. The war precludedseveral improvementsinhighsecurity areas aroundthe
lake. Thus far, there has yet to be the surge inprivate sector investmentinfacilities aroundthe lake as
hoped; investorsare unwillingto investinwhat, for them, is still avolatile situation. For not achieving
its main objectives, the overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory.Sustainabilityis ratedas
unlikely;inadequatemonitoringhasalready weakenedthe resilience ofthe limitedbenefitsachieved.
Institutional developmentimpact is ratednegligible,without any significant improvementinGSOL's
use ofresourcesto further environmentalimprovementsinColombo. Bankperformance is rated
unsatisfactory;poor quality came from arigidprojectdesignthat failedto effectively involve either
borroweror beneficiaries.Borrowerperformance is also ratedunsatisfactory,principally becauseof
the failure to implementsolutionsfor solidwaste andwastewater pollution.

         The Year 2000 Emergency AssistanceProjecthadan apparentlysimple objective: helping
GOSL avoid possibledisruptionsresultingfrom the Y2K problem.But it did not elaborate what the
disruptionswere likely to be. There was, therefore, no counterfactualagainst which to measurepossible
projectbenefits. The projectdeliveredslightly morethanhalfthe expectedcomputer equipment
upgrades-principally servers andPCs-to        Sri Lankanbanks andto agencies of GOSL.On January 1,
2000, no major disruptions were reportedinSri Lanka. Ininvestigatingthe counterfactual,OED found
that some Sri Lankanbanks would lostbusinesswithout internationallyrecognizedY2K compliance,
but evidence was less discerniblefor the little-computerizedGOSL agencies. Overall outcome is
nevertheless ratedmoderatelysatisfactory,as the projectapparentlyachieved its intendedobjective,
but with significant shortcomings; an unclear counterfactualandpublic agencies receivingproject
supportafter January 1,2000, andyet suffering noY2K disruption.Sustainabilityis likely,since Sri
Lanka's economy andbankingsectors havealready demonstrated their resilience to aY2K-type event.
The project's institutional development impact is ratedsubstantial, giventhat it introducedseveral
banks and governmentagenciesto new ways of managingand usingtheir IT resources. For its rapid
projectpreparationandclose supervision, Bankperformance is ratedsatisfactory. For borrower
performance, the rating is also satisfactory,given strongprojectownershipandefficient
implementationby the GOSL authorities concerned.

Experience with theseprojects confirms thefollowing OED lessons:

    0    Projectperformanceis vulnerableto the impactof conflict, especiallythrough unexpected
         conflict events during project implementation.Spatially separating aproject from active
         conflict zones does not meanthat an operationwill be free of conflict constraints.

    0    Projectdesign should not be blindto conflict, and must cautiously but explicitly address the
         constraintsimposed. War-weary governmentsare unlikely to have strongownershipof
         reform that is unrelatedto the causes of the conflict.

    0    Itis importantto focus uponaclear vision ofthe intendeddevelopmentresults ofaproject
         andto remainfocused on them through systematic monitoring andevaluation. Inother words,
         the baselineshouldbe measured, the counterfactualclearly understood, andthe M&E
         supportedand implemented.




                                                                     Gregory K. Ingram
                                                                     Director-General
                                                                     OperationsEvaluation

I  OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.                I
 About this Report
       The Operations Evaluation Department assessesthe programs and activitiesof theWorld Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bankswork is
 producingthe expected results,and second, to helpdevelopimproveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, OED annually assessesabout 25 percent of
 the Banks lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are
 innovative,large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studies or country evaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments; and those that are likelyto generate
 importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessment support largerevaluation
 studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs,OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowingcountry for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augmentthe informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issuesof special interestto broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank departmentand amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the Borrowerfor review;the Borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank'swork.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach.OED evaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluationcriterion (more informationis available on the OED website:
 htto://worldbank.ora/oed/eta-mainDaqe.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistentwith the country's
 current developmentprioritiesand with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country AssistanceStrategies,Sector Strategy Papers,
 OperationalPolicies).Possible ratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
 account their relativeimportance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved,or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefitsat leastcost compared to alternatives.Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally appliedto adjustmentoperations.
       Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient,equitableand sustainableuse of its human,financial, and natural resources through: (a)
 betterdefinition, stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangements andlor (b)
 better alignment of the missionand capacity of an organizationwith its mandate,which derives from these
 institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintendedeffects of a
 project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved,or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently.Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
 supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision(includingensuring adequatetransition arrangements
 for regular operationof the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the Borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
 quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and agreements,towards the
 achievement of development objectivesand sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


  Contents

  Preface  ................................................................................................................................     v

  1 Introduction
   .                      .................................................................................................................     1

  2 ProjectDesignand Implementation
   .                                                                 .......................................................................... 1

  3 ResultsAchieved
   .                              ..........................................................................................................    5

  4.  Conflict's Constraints              ................................................................................................     11

  5 ConclusionsandLessons
   .                                            ...........................................................................................    12

  Bibliography     .....................................................................................................................       15

  Annex A BasicDataSheets
           .                                   ............................................................................................    16


  Box 1: Project ObjectivesandComponents.......................................................................                                 2




Nilakshide Silvajoinedthe OED missionin Sri Lanka. William B.Hurlbuteditedthe report.
This reportwas preparedby Roy Gilbert(Task Manager). who visited Sri LankainJanuary 2003.

RomaynePereiracompiledthe projectdatatables andprovidedadministrativesupport.


                                                ...
                                                111



THIRD ROADSPROJECT (CREDIT 2183-CE)
PRINCIPALRATINGS
                                   ICR                      ES                   PAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory             Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                  Uncertain               Uncertain              UnIikely
InstitutionalDevelopment          Partial                Modest                Modest
Bank Performance              Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory
BorrowerPerformance           Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory
KEY STAFFRESPONSIBLE
                             Task Manager             DivisionChief       Country Director
Appraisal                  B.Assimakopoulus            I.T. Christie        S, Asanuma
Completion                  Jaswant Channe           FrannieHumplick     Mariana Todorova


COLOMBO URBANTRANSPORT PROJECT (CREDIT 2495-CE)
PRINCIPALRATINGS
                                   ICR                      ES                   PAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory             Satisfactory     ModeratelyUnsatisfactory
Sustainability                    Likely                  Likely               Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment          Partial                 Modest              Negligible
Bank Performance               Satisfactory            Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory             Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory
KEY STAFFRESPONSIBLE
                             Task Manaaer-            DivisionChief        Countrv Director
Appraisal                      I.Bradfield               Per Ljung          Paul lsenman
Completion                    John Tillman           Frannie Leautier     Mariana Todorova


COLOMBO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT (CREDIT 2757-CE)
PRINCIPAL RATINGS
                                   ICR                      ES                   PAR
Outcome                    Highly Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                   Unlikely                 Unlikely             Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment         Modest                   Modest              Negligible
Bank Performance             Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance         Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory

KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE
                             Task Manager             Division Chief       Country Director
Appraisal                     NancyZhao             Maria Garcia-Zamor      Paul lsenman
Completion                  Deepal Fernando          Vincent Gouarne      MarianaTodorova


YEAR 2000 EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 3162-CE)
PRINCIPALRATINGS
                                  ICR                       ES                   PAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory             Satisfactory      ModeratelySatisfactory
Sustainability                    Likely                  Likely                 Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment      Substantial              Substantial            Substantial
Bank Performance              Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Satisfactory

KEYSTAFF RESPONSIBLE
                            Task Manager             Division Chief        Country Director
Appraisal                   Shideh Hadian              Marilou Uy         Roberto Bentjerodt
Completion                  Shideh Hadian              Marilou Uy         MarianaTodorova


                                               V



Preface

         Attached is the ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR) preparedby the
OperationsEvaluation Department on four recently completedprojectsin Sri Lanka.For the Third
Roads Project(Roads-111; Cr 2183-CE), the World Bankapproved a credit of US$42.5 million
equivalentonNovember 6, 1990. The credit was closed on December31, 1998, six monthslater
than planned, andUS$4.7 millionequivalentwas cancelled. For the Colombo Urban Transport
Project (Urban Transport;Cr 2495-CE)the Bank approved acredit o fUS$20.0 million equivalent
on May 18, 1993.The creditwas closedon October31, 1999, as planned, andUS$6.0 million
equivalentwas cancelled.Forthe ColomboEnvironmentalImprovementProject(Environmental
Improvement; Cr 2757-CE)the Bankapproved acreditofUS$39.0 millionequivalentonJune 29,
1995.The credit was closedon June 30,2001, as planned, andUS$9.1million equivalentwas
cancelled.For the Year 2000 EmergencyAssistance Project(Y2K; Cr 3162-CE) the Bank
approvedacredit ofUS$29.0millionequivalent onJanuary 19, 1999. The credit was closedon
June 30,200 1, as planned, andUS$13.0 million equivalent was cancelled.

         This report is baseduponreviews of ImplementationCompletionReports (Report No.
19375, June 21, 1999, for the Third Roads Project; ReportNo. 19900, December22, 1999, for
Colombo Urban Transport Project; ReportNo. 23719, December31,2001, for Colombo
Environmental ImprovementProject; and ReportNo. 22915, December20,2001, for the Year
2000 EmergencyAssistance Project), Staff Appraisal Reports and Project Appraisal Documents
(Report No. 8816-CE, October 3,1990, for the Third Roads Project; ReportNo. 11375-CE,April
22, 1993, for Colombo UrbanTransport Project; ReportNo. 12878-CE, June 2, 1995, for the
Colombo Environmental ImprovementProject; ReportNo. 18729-CE,December 28, 1998, for
the Year 2000 EmergencyAssistanceProject), legal documents andproject files, andon
discussionswith Bank staff involved with the projects. OED fielded a missionto Sri Lanka in
January 2003 to review projectresults. The mission visited centraland local government
departmentsand agencies responsiblefor the projects inColombo and elsewhere, and made field
inspectionsof project sites throughout Colombo and southernand western Sri Lanka. The mission
appreciatesthe courtesiesand attentiongiven by these interlocutorsand also the logistical
assistanceprovided by the Bank's country office inColombo.

         Following standard procedures, copies ofthe PPAR were sent to the relevant government
officials and agencies concernedfor their review. No commentswere received.

        Some intemally displacedpeopleretumhome




-1-1
0




        GOSL offensivein Jafma

0
        LTTE control access to Jaffna

        LTTE counter-attacks
        Colombo bomb injures President




        GOSL nationwidestate o femergency
ea ri
m       GOSL army offensive
5  -   ,Kandy bombingo fTempleofthe Tooth
         Colombobusbombing(Urban Transport Junction)

         Colombodowntownbombingo fGaladari Hotel




    r j  Colombobombingo ftrain
v)
m




2   A    Peacetalks

2 1 - 1                                             I




  [I1                                               1
3 IN/
cn
i  - 1
a        Conflict resumes
2   -    PeacekeepersLeave

         LTTE/GOSL negotiations,
         Withdrawal of Indianpeacekeepers

         GOSL offensive againstJVP

                                              1


1.      Introduction

1.1     Across several sectors, government and Bank departments, each project inthis
cluster o ffour was preparedandimplemented ina very difficult context; Sri Lanka's
civil war. The operations didnot yieldtheir full promise, reflectingthe generally under
parperformance ofallBank lendingto Sri Lankainrecent years. Howthe conflict may
have underminedtheir results i s an important focus o fthis OED assessment.

1.2     The projects were appraised and implementedas conflict was ongoing,
although the preparationof all butthe Y2K project took place when the intensity o f
combat was declining (see Timeline). The three spatially referenced projects-again
excluding Y2K-avoided        combat zones inthe north and northeast until, that is,
Colombo itselfbecame an important theater o f conflict from 1996 onward. Periods o f
intense conflict, such as during 1997-2000, were particularly difficult moments for
these projects. Over time, there was a trend toward disbursing smaller shares o f IDA
credits approved for these operations.

1.3     A negative effect of Sri Lanka's 1983-2002 civil war uponproject
performance i s to be expected. Studiesestimate that, for the economy as a whole
duringthis period, war sliced 1.5-2.0 percentage points off GDP growth, which could
otherwise have reached a very strong 7 percent per annum (Arunatilake 2001). Apart
from directly puttingproject assets inconflict zones at risk, war can negatively
impact projects inother ways, even when a project i s not operating withina active
conflict zone. War can undermine ambitious project objectives by distracting
government, its agencies, and their resources from project reform agendas. It can
weaken implementation capacity, evenmaking the private sector unwillingto invest
inrisky conditions. Itcanmutelocalvoices as acentralizedapproachto conflict
management prevails. It can obscure projects' development purposes, making them
overlook baselines, counterfactuals, andmonitoring and evaluation. The effects o f
each o fthese inturnare considered briefly inthe next section, which first looks at
how "conflict-blindness" prevents these effects being taken into account inproject
design and implementation inthe first place.



2.      ProjectDesignand Implementation

"CONFLICT-BLIND" PROJECTASSISTANCE

2.1     Most o f the objectives o f these projects were relevant to the development
priorities o f Sri Lanka and the Bank, and most components were appropriate
instrumentsfor achieving them (Box 1). Neither objectives nor components, however,
directly addressed the conflict conditions inwhich they would have to work, nor were
they tailored to the constraints that the conflict would impose. There are two main
reasons for the "conflict-blindness" o fthese operations. First, designers o f projects
directed at other regions felt it was safe to ignore a war confined, it seemed, to the
north and northeastern parts o fthe country. Second, the lack o f Bank policy about

                                                                                     2


assistance duringconflict made project designersloath to draw attentionto ongoing
conflicts; Bank reconstructionpolicy through OP 8.50 impliedthat Bank assistance
was only applicable after a conflict had ceased.None o f the projects reviewed here
was an Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL), the main instrumentto implement OP
8.50, not even the Y2K project that hadthe word "emergency" inits title. The Region
correctly deniedthe Y2K project ERL status, since the long-foreseen millennium
rollover was not an unexpected emergency o f the kindaddressed by OP 8.50. The
Y2K's "emergency" came from the tardy start-up that required extraordinarly agile
and speedy work by the preparation team. Otherwise, the business-as-normal
approach to these operations duringwar constrained performance ina number of
ways, discussed inmore detail below.




Box 1: Project Objectives and Components

                              Objectives                                            1          Components (final costs in us$million)


a    To reduce road transport costs by restoring major                                a Rehabilitationof420kmsofprimary/secondaryroads
     trunk roads to better operationalcondition                                             and repair/reconstructionof 24 bridges (US$56.7m)
     To restoreflood damaged road infrastructure                                      =     Repair and reconstructionof selected road sections and
     To enhance institutional capabilitiesfor more and                                      associated structures damaged in 1989floods and
     better road maintenance and rehabilitation                                             landslides (US$0.8m)

     To upgrade RDAs capacity to supervise and                                              Vehicles, equipment, and supplies (US$O.lm)
     execute rehabilitationworks and identify actions                                 3     TA for design, contract mgt, monitoring, supervision of
     need to develop the local contracting industry                                         works, and studies (US$5.8m)


     To removetraffic impedimentsin central Colombo                                         Transport system managementlinfrastructure for three
     To develop long-term transport plans for Greater                                       areas (US$14.5m)
     Colombo MetropolitanArea (GCMA)                                                  3     Colombo urban transport study (inc training) (US$1.4m)
     To strengthen national and provincialtransport                                   =     Institutional strengtheningof National Transport
     institutions and their management                                                      Commission (US$O.Gm)
     To enhance railway efficiency                                                    =     Sri Lanka Railways Restructuring(US$0.4m)
     To improve air quality in Colombo                                                a Airqualityimprovement(US$0.5m)




     catchment area                                                                   a BeiraLakecatchmentpollutioncontrol(US$13.8m)
     To develop capabilities of local governments and
     institutionsto plan and manage municipal services                                      Technical assistance (US$9,4m)

     To assist mobilizing private participation in devel-
     opment and operation of infrastructureservices

...................................................................................
                                                             Year 2000 Emergency Assistance Project Y2K
                                                                                     ...........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                        -
     To assist GOSL on an urgent basis to prevent                                     a Financialsectorcomponent-mainly                              a credit line to
     possible business disruption in the country's                                 T        banks (~~$17.5m)
     economic and financial sectors as a result of the
     Y2K problem                                                                      a Governmentagencies component-mainly                                   y2K
                                                                                            remediation sub-projects (US$3.7m)
                                                                                    I
Source: Technicaland legal documentationof respective project.

                                            3


AMBITIOUSPROJECTOBJECTIVES UNDERMINED BYWARTIME CONSTRAINTS

2.2     Some project objectives (details Box 1) impliedsignificant reforms for which a
war-weary GOSL had little appetite, especially whenthe reforms hadlittle or nothing
to do withthe causes o fthe conflict. None ofthe reforms proposed by the projects
claimedto be helpingprevent a conflict, the endingo fwhich was a top priority for both
GOSL andprivate business. Interestingly,the most successful ofthe four operations
reviewedhere, the Y2K project, embodied no significant reform agenda.

2.3     Butthe others did. Roads-111, for instance, sought to raise revenues for the
first time in Sri Lanka through user charges and fuel price adjustments; not an
attractive reform option for a GOSLpreoccupiedwith more pressing security
requirements.Almost by the way, the UrbanTransport project, sought to restructure
Sri Lanka's large railway sector and clean up Colombo city's air; both enormous
tasks. But inneither case hadthe project found a willing and able partner committed
to the necessary underlying reforms. For its part, the Environmental Improvement
project euphorically sought private sector participation inurban infrastructure and
service delivery-a   staple Bank remedy. Without an obvious champion inGOSL, nor
willing takers among private businesses (which wanted higherreturns given the high
risksof investingduring conflict), such reform did not take hold.

2.4     Aversion to reform i s notjust a project-level phenomenon. Inits opening
paragraph, the current Sri Lanka CAS laments the loss o f momentum for economy-
wide structural reform when domestic security i s uncertain (World Bank 2003, p. i).

INHERENTLY     WEAKPROCUREMENT

2.5     None o fthe four projects reviewed here was fully implemented as planned.
Each left a substantial share (between 11percent and 45 percent) o f its IDA
commitment undisbursed at completion. All four project ICRs cite difficulties with
procurement among the causes o f these shortfalls. Under Roads-I11 and the Urban
Transport project, GOSL's protractedprocessing o fprocurementwas held
responsible for works delays o f up to one year, according to the ICRs (p. 12 ineach).
Under the Environmental Improvement project, poor quality biddingdocuments that
didnot address the BOT (build, operate, andtransfer) sought, preventedthe timely
completion o f key project sewage works (ICR, p. 6). For the Y 2 K project, cumber-
some management o fprocurement inSri Lanka was blamed for the delivery o f
equipment to two government agencies only after the millenniumrollover (ICR, p. 2).

2.6     While interlocutors o f the OED mission inColombo were candid about poor
performance on procurement in Sri Lanka ingeneral, specific problems, their causes
andpossible solutions were not always apparent. For instance, GOSL agencies
reportedthat they found it difficult to pre-qualify firms from unfamiliar countries.
Yet, underRoads-111,RDA readily recognized, up front, the shortcomings ofa
foreign bidder for the large Galle-Matara road contract. At the insistence o f the Bank
and against the advice o f GOSL, though, the foreign firm was awardedthe contract,
but failedto complete the works. Onanother occasionunderthe UrbanTransport
project, Bank insistence failed to preventthe cancellation o f international competitive

                                              4


bidding(ICB) andthe pursuito fa sole-source purchase o f aninadequate traffic light
system for Colombo; it was not financedby the project, however.

2.7     While disparate experiences such as these point to chaotic and ad hoc
procurement experiences inSri Lanka, weakness o f the private sector itself, may be
an important commonthread to, ifnot explanationof, some o fthe problems
encountered. Local contractors, for instance, often failed to pre-qualify to bidfor
project contracts because they were under-capitalized; a sign o f entrepreneurs as
willing bidders, who were unwillingto invest intheir own business ina volatile and
riskyconflict environment. Sometimes, however, neither local nor foreign firms bid
for contracts that yielded muchlower returns than the very highones expected insuch
circumstances. This was the case for the solid waste landfill o f the Environmental
Improvement project that was not built. O f course, more handy procurement
management by GOSL would ease some delays, but would not, by itself, overcome
inevitable structural weaknesses affecting procurement duringwar.

LOCAL   VOICESMUTED

2.8     Two projects supported decentralization through explicitly seeking to
strengthenlocal governments, the Urban Transport project through strengthening
provincial transport institutions andthe Environmental Improvement project through
developing local government service capacity. Actual results were modest, however.
The RoadDevelopmentAuthority (RDA) remains the leadhighway authority inthe
country and local governments remain passive observers to key project interventions,
as the CMC didwith respect to the solid waste management, the Colombo traffic
lights, andthe Beira Lake clean-up. Beneficiary participation, which mighthave
helpedpreventthe impasse over solid waste management inColombo, was not a key
project feature inthis operation. That component, infact, imposeda single technical
solution for technical people prepared by technical people. While decentralizationand
beneficiary participation themselves may pose no security risk intimes o f conflict,
such innovations clearly did not prosper as GOSL's centralized drive toward ending
thewar took its course.

AMBIGUOUSBASELINES         AND LACK COUNTERFACTUALS
                                       OF

2.9     Ofthe four effects considered thus far, this one is not exclusively tiedto
conflict. It can arise inpeaceful contexts too. Itparticularly affectedthe
Environmental Improvement and Y2K projects, which did not lay the key baselines
o f development beyond which the operations would try to construct improvements.
The other two projects, Roads-I11andUrban Transport, through careful diagnoses o f
existing pre-project situations, were much stronger on this score.

2.10    Underthe Environmental Improvementproject, the lack o fbaseline data on
the original condition o fthe Beira Lake water and absence o f systematic monitoring
o f changes to it, make it very difficult to assess the results obtained. It i s difficult, if
not impossible, to verify the reduction o f sewage discharge into the lake-one         o fthe
project's key objectives-since    most discharge was andprobably remains

                                                5


clandestine. Moreover, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) does not tell us what
the original pre-project level o f discharge was. More meaningfulmonitoring and
evaluation (M&E)would be obtained through monitoring water quality inthe Beira
Lake, an indicator o f the result o f lessening discharge. Infact, the P A D did have a
target o f reducing faecal coliforms inthe lake water by 50 percent withinfive years,
butthe report didnot indicate the absolute level at appraisal-in       other words, the
baseline-against    which improvementswould be observed. No systematic monitoring
was done, however, so it i s not clear exactly what was achieved (details para. 3.10).

2.11    The absence o f a baseline and counterfactual was perhaps most serious inthe
Y2K project. Despite frequent but generic references to the Y2K problem, the Y2K
project did not try to forecast Sri Lanka's likely millenniumrollover disruption that
the project intendedto avoid. Hence, whenno disruptionoccurred, as widely reported
by different sources, we still do not know exactly what was avoided. Without
knowing the counterfactual-or      likely without-project situation-it    i s difficult to
know what difference the project itself made. The Y2K project's logframe correctly
identifies a key performance indicator as the "estimated amount o f damages inthe
financial and economic activities avoided or minimized" (PAD, p. 20), but does not
give baseline value estimates. No monitoring or evaluation o f the damages avoided
was undertaken.

2.12    Without clear baselines and a clear understanding o f the counterfactual-the
situation o fthese two projects-it    i s difficult to discern the development purpose and
the development achievements o fthe operations. Neither project estimated the likely
economic rates o f return(ERRS).Had they prepared such analyses, which require
comparisons o f explicit with-project and without-project scenarios, ambiguity about
what they actually achieved mighthave dissipated.



3.      ResultsAchieved

THIRDROADS      PROJECT(CR. 2183)

3.1     This operation met its objective o frestoringmajor trunk roads inSri Lanka to
a better operational condition, but to a lesser extent than envisioned. Instead o f the
417kilometers intended, it repaved and improved 310kilometers. Instead o f fixing 24
bridges, it repaired or rebuilt only 13. Weak implementation capacity and
procurement problems, discussed inthe previous chapter, ledto delays and were
largely responsible for the shortfalls, as well as an average 30 percent unitcost
increase for the roads over appraisal estimates. The work done nevertheless yieldeda
positive internal economic rate o f return (ERR), although probably not as highas the
52 percent reportedby the ICR. The ICR estimate's assumption o f adequate
maintenance throughout the 18 years o f the ERR benefit stream may be unrealistic,
givenever tighter roadmaintenance budgetsinSri Lanka. The Ministryo fHighway's
(MOH) budget for 2003 has beencut. In2000, RDA's maintenance, even o f a light
sand-sealing treatment o f pavement, was only 462 kilometers o f Sri Lanka's 11,908
kilometers o ftrunk roads, down from 1,900 kilometers per year during the early

                                            6


1990s (ICR, para. 37). The ICR's highERRestimate also derives from higher surface
pavementstandards-roughness       typically <2,800mm/km-than      those o froadsthe
OED mission traveled on. A lower road surface quality than plannedis consistent
with difficulties inquarrying aggregatereportedby contractorsto the OED mission
andthe poor quality of those materials reported by the borrower ICR (p. 8). Despite
these shortcomings, the ERR would probably still exceed Sri Lanka's opportunity
cost of capital, making the project road investments, overall, worthwhile.

3.2     More attentionnow needs to turnto roadsafety, somethingforeseeable andthat
should have beengiven more attention by the project. Sri Lanka's improvedroad
network, with heavier andfaster traffic, now has 50 percent more reportedaccidents
thanbeforethe project. The OEDmissionwitnessedtwo seriousaccidentsduring one
120-kilometer trip from Colombo to the southerncity of Galle. Roadsafety would, no
doubt, be improved by more prudentdrivinghabitsespecially by bus drivers-
consistent withthe Urban Transportborrower ICR observationthat bus driving
standards remain poor inColombo. Butbetter highway lane markings andhard
shoulders without temporary or permanentstructures obstructing them would also help.

3.3     Road rehabilitation and maintenance inSri Lanka are now issues on the
national development agenda, partly thanks to the project, but also to other donors.
However, they still need strengthening. There i s still a needto assure budgets through
guaranteedsources of funding and mechanisms o f cost recovery from road users, and
make (even modest) progress with private sector participation-through      outsourcing
maintenance to contractors, for instance. The current situation points to the less-than-
full achievement ofRoads-111's two institutional objectives. One would have
expecteda significant change from where most maintenanceis still carried out by the
RoadConstruction andDevelopment Co (Pvt) Ltd(RC&DC), a subsidiary ofRDA,
either by force account or ad hoc service contracts. With regardto possible funding,
more might be forthcoming in2004 from Sri Lanka's newRoads Fund.Project
recommendationsin 1992to implementroad user charges-which typically can
finance the general treasury rather than be earmarked for roads inparticular-were,    in
any case, not adoptedby GOSL, innon-compliance withproject legal covenants.
RDA itselfstill relies uponforeign aid for 57 percent of its funding, havingrecently
establishedtwo special operating divisions to implementdonor programs (ADB and
Japanese aid). Internally, RDA can still make fuller use of informationtechnology,
especially for planning and controlling an eventually expandedroad maintenance and
rehabilitation program. Ironically, the ICR draws the lessonthat RDA i s still inneed
of reform. While valid, this is a somewhat disappointing finding; a revamped, ifnot
fully reformed RDA had beenexpectedas a result o f this project.

COLOMBO URBANTRANSPORT            PROJECT (CR. 2495)

3.4     The UrbanTransport project had some modest success inimprovingtraffic
circulation incentral Colombo, with average speeds increasing from 16 kmper hour
to 20 kmper hour duringvery heavy traffic, but no improvement over 15 kmper hour
during peak periods according to the ICR (p. 10). Infact, the main streets and
intersections, includingthe Olcott Mawatha and Maradana Junction are all heavily
congestedtraffic corridors that carry 20,000-60,000 vehicles a day; an array o fprivate

                                             7


cars andtaxis, ubiquitous three-wheeler autorickshaws (known locally as "Tuk-
tuks"), small andlargetrucks, bicycles, motorcycles, minivans andregular buses (the
last mode carrying 90 per cent ofpassengers). But the project objective o f removing
impedimentsto traffic circulation was itselfoverridden by the intense security
clampdown-with      traffic controls and checkpoints sealing off a 10-15 block area o f
downtown-that      followed the 1996 bomb attack on CBSL headquartersinthe heart
ofthe city. Because ofthis security cordon, one of the project's largest proposed
improvements to three closely placed intersections inthe Fort downtown district-
heavily trafficked with more than 40,000 vehicles per day andpotentially yielding an
ERRof45 per cent, according to the SAR-could not be implemented. Contrary to
the intentofthe project, this left a serious traffic impedimentto accessingwhat has
become a blightedformer commercial center of Colombo. The project still introduced
improvements-repaving,      drainage, street lighting, bus and passenger facilities-
however, to the less central MaradanaJunction and also along the Olcott Mawatha,
downtown Colombo's main street and 2.3 kmbus corridor leading directly into center
of the cordoned off Fort district.

3.5     There are some questions about the ERRSof 30 percent for Olcott Mawatha
and 22 per cent for the Maradanajunction. The ERRestimates compute time and
vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings through higher speeds made possible by better
road surfaces, adjusted for urban congestion. For the Olcott Wawatha especially, the
estimatesplace great stock intime savings where they account for nearly two-thirds
of all benefits from improvements inthat corridor. While road surface quality may be
a key determinant of traffic speed is appropriatefor amain highway, for a congested
urban street inColombo its impact upontraffic speed-and        hence time saving-can
be overridden by the plethora of slow moving three-wheeler motor rickshaws,
disorderly buses and failing traffic lights. Subtracting time savings from the benefit
stream of the ERR estimate for Olcott Mawatha, reduces the ERR from 30 percent to
a marginal, but still worthwhile, 11per cent.

3.6     IncentralColombo, traffic impedimentsmayhavebeenworsenedthrough a
malfunctioning traffic light system, procuredlocally over Bank objections, butinstalled
duringproject implementation. Recent traffic speeddata showing the effects of such
disruption were not available to the OED mission which, however, saw severallights
not operatingandwas informed that the systemcaneven give green go signals to
contrary traffic flows. Today, CMC is unwilling on cost grounds andunable on
technical grounds to maintaina systemthat needs replacing. Inhindsight, GOSL could
havebeenmore opento pursueICB procuremento fa high-tech solution that could
have provided Colombo with the high-quality system that it needs and deserves.

3.7     Mixed results came from the project's three institutional development
objectives related to long-term transport planning, strengtheningtransport institutions
andreforming the railways. As the ICR itselfpoints out (para. 23), these were legacy
objectives of a muchlarger transport sector loanplanned earlier but aborted for lack
of GOSL interest (as well as labor opposition). Thus, enhancing efficiency inSri
Lanka's large railway sector was not achieved. The project's provision of a single
expatriate advisor to point to the needto privatize some freight services, by itselfwas
not up to the challenge. Strengthening bus companiesthrough training 18,000 bus

                                             8


drivers and conductors achieved a bizarre result of trained drivers performing
marginally worse than those who were untrained. Strengtheningtheir management
also had little success, since computerized managementinformationsystems (MIS)
providedthrough the project were poorly designedand, inany case, deliveredlate.
Better results came from the pursuit ofproject's transport planning objective,
however. They included a comprehensive policy and investmentprogram for
transport inColombo andthe dissemination of its key proposalsthrough a series of
workshops heldinColombo.

3.8      Improvingthe air quality of Colombo-worsened through emissions from the
city's fleet of 260,000 vehicles, was another ambitious legacy objective that could not
be achieved through the modest investmentsproposedby a small project such as this.
The project did at least draw more attentionto the problem, however. By setting up
two fixed air quality monitoring stations inthe city, it showed how GOSL's later
Clean Air 2000 Action Plancould put an air quality monitoringstrategy into effect.

COLOMBO ENVIRONMENTAL            IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CR. 2757)

3.9      This project didnot achieve its mainobjectives. At least during
implementation, it didnot succeed inimproving solid waste managementin
metropolitan Colombo. Today, although a large-scalecomposting plant i s beginning
operation-a    technical solution earlier opposedby Bank staff-Colombo        and its
neighbors still need a definitive solution to the disposal andtreatment of all their
1,000 tonnes andmore of solid waste produced per day. As mentioned earlier, the
project imposed a single design. The single site chosento the north of Colombo
provoked stiff opposition, not so muchfrom local residents, who were few, but from
environmental interest groups. The solution failed to attract the interest of potential
private operators too, who felt its low gate fees would not make it a going concern for
them. Clearly the voices ofmany localstakeholders were heardtoo late. Local
opposition prevented its implementation altogether, ensuring lasting damage to the
local environment andhealththrough uncontrolled disposal into open dumps, still
widely usedtoday.

3.10     Onthe other hand, the project probably went a lot further inreducing
wastewater pollutioninthe BeiraLake catchment area, its secondobjective. Several
local officials, residents, andbusinesspeople affirmed that the conditions of this
shallow and sinewy body of water that runsthroughout the heart of central Colombo
have improved inrecent years. At various points on the lakeside the OED mission-
whose visit came at the favorable post-monsoon season when pollutants are most
dissolved-found no foul odors, although the water was still discolored by algae, and
some illegal sewage discharge was still taking place. Nevertheless, an industrial waste
collection systemwas completed under the project and several lakeside dwellings
were connectedto the city's main sewerage system. Project prevention works could
not proceedinsome lakeside areas near the prime minister's residence, where
security restrictions didnot allow access to illegal sewage outlets that continue to
pollute. Overall results are difficult tojudge, though, for the lack o f baseline and
monitoring discussedearlier (para. 2.10). Despite the five year targets for water
quality improvements spelled out inthe SAR, from the Bank staff side today came

                                              9


the surprising view that no meaningful improvement would bemeasurableinless
than 20 years. From the GOSL side, an opinionwas that monitoring the BeiraLake
water was a waste oftime, since nobody paid attentionto the results-a      apt
perception, unfortunately. The OED mission neverthelessobtained January 2001
readings by GOSL's National Water Supply andDrainage Board from 15 sample
points inthe lake, showing faecal coliforms inthe 4-70/100 milliliters range, roughly
the quality of treated sewage at the top limit. Differentandnot necessarily
comparable-in terms of location andtiming-readings          taken in 1992 indicated a
broader range of 0.2-1 80/100 milliliters allow scope withinthe distribution for
evidence o f improvement (Dissanayake 1996, p. 45). Clearly, monitoringwater
quality inthe Beira Lake is not so difficult to do andthere are qualified peopleto do it
inColombo. Itneedsto be an integral part ofevaluating progresstoward recovering
this important asset for the city.

3.11    Achieving the project's two other-institutional-objectives,     strengthening
local governments' planning capacities andmobilizingprivate sector participation in
infrastructure service provision, met with less success. While updating the Colombo
Master Planbenefitedfrom the project's provisionof a geographical information
system(GIS) for GOSL's UrbanDevelopment Authority (UDA), little benefit went to
the CMC, which as the localauthority for the city wouldbe responsible for plan
implementation and cadastral and land-use planning applications for the GIs. As far
as private sector service provision was concerned, the results were disappointing.
Private firms didnot go for what, to them, were the unprofitable solid waste services
the project offered. A build, operate, andtransfer (BOT) contract for a major
wastewater treatment plant failed, owing to lack o fprivate sector interest. Thus far,
private capital has also not invested inservices, such as restaurantsand shops, around
the BeiraLake. The lack of interest cannot be laid at the project's door only. After all,
the attemptedimprovement took place inan investment climate clouded by
uncertainties over official enforcement of higher environmental standards and
downgraded by conflict and associatedad hoc security measures.

YEAR 2000 EMERGENCY        ASSISTANCEPROJECT(CR. 3162)

3.12    Midnight December31, 1999, the Y2K rollover passedwithout major
disruption inSri Lanka, as the Y2K project hadhoped. Y2K-vulnerable sectors-such
as telecom, air transport, and health-also  got by without Y2K rollover problemsand
without specific project assistance. Only minor incidents-a    shutdown of one
supermarket's credit point of sale and failure of some monitoring equipment intwo
hospitals-were reportedfor the country (US Senate 2000). But canwe be sure that this
was a satisfactoryresult and one that is attributable to the project?An answer to this
questionrequires two key clarifications. First, about the counterfactual, inother words,
the likely disruptionthat would have occurredwithout the project. Second, about
whether any disruption avoided can be attributed to project interventions.

3.13    Onthe counterfactual, the PADprovides little information on what might have
happenedto Sri Lankaat the Y2K turnover ifthe project hadnot beenimplemented.As
mentionedearlier (para. 2.11) the project designcorrectly mentioned the concept of
damage to financial and economic activities avoided or minimizedas a key

                                             10


performance indicator, but didnot describe what this damage was likely to be, or how it
should be measured. Withthe benefit o fhindsight, the OED mission sought some
evidence for the elusive counterfactual inColombo. One of the project beneficiaries,
the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) reported, for instance, that it would have lost considerable
foreign exchange business ifithadnot become Y2K compliant. The bankwould have
hadto close its profitable London branch ifit hadnot met Bank of England
requirements o fY2K compliance-a        clearly negative counterfactual from BOC's
perspective. Other international clients-Visa    International, Chase, andBarclays-
similarlyput Sri Lankanbanksunder considerable pressure over Y2K compliance,
especially out of fears o fpossible disruption to settlements made through globalized
payments systems duringthe millennium rollover. External pressure was important,
since Sri Lankans had extraordinary experience o fhow resilient some computer
systems could be. They saw, for instance, CBSL restore operations via the SWIFT
interbank payment system within48 hours o fthe bomb attack in 1996that completely
destroyed CBSL's central computer.

3.14    To examine the issue o f attribution, one should note that only 55 percent o f
the project was completed, interms ofthe share o fcommitments actually disbursed.
Assistance took the form o f system upgrades-particularly       o f PCs and servers-for
15 banks and 20 public agencies. But demand for eligible loans by the banks was
weaker than expected and public agencies didnot see the needfor the volume o f
equipment support available throughthe project. By completion, less than halfthe
project commitment to public agencies had actually been spent. Despite all these
shortfalls, the ICR claims that project objectives were still fully achieved. Normally,
achieving project objectives at muchlower cost would indicate a considerable gain in
efficiency. But for this project, where the case for attributing the absence o f Y2K
disruption to the project has been poorly made, some ask ifthis objective might have
been achieved with lower project disbursement still, or even none at all? Further
doubts about attributing the lack o f Y2K disruption to the project arise from two
important facts. First, two o f the largest public agency project beneficiaries-the
Census and Statistics Department(CSDSL) and the EmployeesTrust FundBoard
(ETFB) receivedproject support late, after January 1,2000, and yet sufferedno Y2K
disruption. Low levels o f computerization, manual backups (of both data and
systems), and system shutdowns hadprotected them. Second, fully disbursingall
Y2K project funds as plannedwould have made no difference to the project result
since, according to the ICR, the objective had been fully achievedwithjust halfthe
planned disbursement, as just mentioned.

3.15    Overall, the experience o f the Y2K project inSri Lanka was a positive one in
what was a thin and difficult project field for the Bank worldwide. Beyond Sri Lanka,
there were only two other Y2K operations supportedby the Bank, one inArgentina
(Ln.4423) the other inMalaysia (Ln.4450), bothofwhich were barely implemented.
On the other hand, 100countries worldwide-including         Sri Lanka-have     received
small Y2K planning grants from infoDev. The Sri Lanka Y2K project could build
uponthis andhad a useful side-effect o f giving greater attention andpriority to IT
solutions inthe country's banking and government sectors that had previously
languished. Inhindsight, the project would have done even better ifit had openly
incorporated an explicit objective along these lines inthe project design.

                                              11


4.      Conflict's Constraints

UPONDESIGN

4.1     Fromthe experience ofthe four Sri Lankanprojects assessedhere, two
constraints were identified, as well as, unexpectedly, one opportunity. First, when
they have the choice-as     they didwith Roads-I11andthe two operations in
Colombo-project      designers can avoid the delivery o f project assets to conflict zones,
where those assets risk beinglost or damaged, and where providers and users are
themselves at risk.Wisely, Roads-I11avoided investmentsincontested areas inthe
north. Security i s a necessary condition for a successful development project, and
focusing upon secure areas within a conflict country makes sense. Inchoosing
Colombo, boththe Urban Transport and the Environmental Improvement projects
focused not only uponthe capital city, but also on what, since 1985, had been an area
relatively safe from the war. While avoiding conflict zones makes operational sense,
itis obviously not a strategy to bringbenefits to those populationstrapped inthese
zones, especially the poor among them. But such assistance may only be feasible after
strife-torn areas have sustained peace. This was a conclusion of the 1995 ICR of the
Sri Lanka Emergency Reconstructionand Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1883),
implemented inthe north o f the country after the ill-fated peace accords o f 1987.

4.2     Second, project designers are right to continue to pursue institutional
development even inconflict situations, butmay find that borrowers have little
appetite for substantial reform, as we saw from the experience o fthe Urban Transport
andEnvironmental Improvementprojects. Inthese cases, a GSOL overseeing a war
situation are likely to be distracted from regular reform programs, such as
privatization and decentralization. The presence or risk o f conflict do not imply that
change i s impossible, but they can take the edge o f fproject-driven reform.

4.3     Third-and     this is the opportunity-project designers may find that an
operation can play a constructive indirect and non-military role ina conflict. This was
the case o fthe Y2K project, an operationthat was strongly championedby the CBSL
Governor. The upbeat international dissemination o fthe project gained Sri Lanka the
reputation o f beingone of the world's four or five most proactive Y2K reformers in
the world, significantly enhancing an otherwise war-battered image of the country's
financial sector inparticular.

DURINGIMPLEMENTATION

4.4     Fourconstraints were identifiedthrough the assessmentofthese projects.
First, implementationcan be disruptedby an unexpected shift o fthe conflict into
project areas. This happened to the two operations inColombo, the Urban Transport
project and the Environmental Improvement project after the 1996 bomb attack on
CBSL. As mentioned earlier, security cordons with checkpoints subsequentlythrown
around downtown Colombo overrode the project objective o f easing vehicular access,
and made some project investments infeasible. Security concerns also prevented some
o fthe Beira Lake clean-up works and restricted after-dark truck movements needed

                                             12


for the solid waste program. When conflict unexpectedly erupts or shifts to a
previously secure area, a mid-termreview can examine the relocation o f key project
components such as these to safer zones, where possible.

4.5      Second, roadrehabilitationwas constrained by contractors beingunable to use
explosives to quarry the necessary aggregate material under Roads-111. Known or
foreseeable constraints, such as these, need to be factored into project design. It i s
important for project designers to talk to such stakeholders and factor the constraints
they face insuch circumstances.

4.6     Third, the contractors reportedfurther conflict-related difficulties; this time of
hiringlabor insome areasperceivedby workers to be insecure and dangerous. In
such areas, contractors also found that insurance to cover o ftheir equipment was
prohibitively expensive. Since this constraint is more space-specific, it was more
readily factored into the design o f Roads-111, for example.

4.7     Fourth, project executing agencies and supervising consultants reported
difficulties inobtaining detailed maps, ostensibly o f highsecurity areas, whose
dissemination was restricted for strategic reasons. Suchrestrictions can severely
curtail the planning and supervisory capacities o fthose responsible for project
implementation. Keeping the borrower informed when such problems arise i s an
important first step to finding solutions.

4.8      Of all the projects reviewedhere, the Y2K operation was probably the least
constrained by the conflict. Sri Lanka's was not a high-tech war. But, globally, as IT
moves to the heart o f conflict, this kind of operation may prove to be more vulnerable
inthe future.



5.       Conclusions and Lessons

RATINGS

5.1     Roads-111(Cr. 2183): Project objectives are still substantiallyrelevantto
current GOSL policy o f improving infrastructure services, supported by the 2003
CAS. While the new CAS focuses uponprivate sector infrastructure provision in
general, it does see a potential public sector role inthe highway sub-sector through a
viable Road Fund(World Bank 2003, p. 17). Efficacy inachieving those objectives
was only modest,since a significant volume o f plannedworks were not completed.
Efficiency too was modest;ERRSprobably exceeded the opportunity cost ofcapital,
butwere likely to be lower than reportedinthe ICR. The overalloutcome o fthis
project i s therefore rated moderatelysatisfactory;it did achieve its relevant
objectives, albeit with significant shortcomings; delivery shortfalls andlimitedpolicy
and institutional gains. Sustainability i s rated as unlikely,principally because o fthe
lack of ongoing maintenance o f the road network and the absence o f financing
mechanisms to help pay for it.Institutional development impact i s rated as modest,
since the project ledto very little improvement inthe way Sri Lanka went about the

                                              13


management o f its road network, the organizational arrangements inplace, and the
use o f resources applied to the sector. Still, Bankperformance i s rated satisfactory
mainly because o fthe good quality at entry o fthis project. Borrowerperformance i s
also rated satisfactory, despite sometimes lethargic management o fprocurement.

5.2      Urban Transport (Cr. 2495): Similarly, with current GOSL and Bank
priorities for infrastructure provision, especially through the private sector, this
project's objectives are substantially relevant today. The project's efficacy in
achieving its objectives was only modest, however; it lacked instrumentsto achieve
two o f its five objectives, majorjunction works were abandoned for security reasons
and the poor performance o fthe traffic light systemundermined the aim o f easing
traffic flows. Project efficiency was modest too, inview o f the significant costs
incurred and the limited results obtained. Since it didnot achieve its major objectives
butnevertheless didproduce a few worthwhile results, the overall outcomeo fthis
project i s rated moderately unsatisfactory.Sustainability i s rated as unlikely;
Colombo's urban transport problems are likely to get worse before they improve
whatever the evolution o f the security scenario, and the modest project benefits are
unlikely to be resilient to the uncertainties ahead. Institutional developmentimpact i s
ratednegligible;the project failed to leave inplace an efficient means to apply
resources to Colombo's urban transport, even through components that were
specifically designed to do so. Bankperformance was unsatisfactory, principally
becausethe project design overstated the borrower's commitment to the implied
reforms, retainedambitious objectives o f a larger project planned earlier, but failed to
provide adequate instruments to achieve them; an issue o fproject quality at entry.
Borrowerperformance is also rated unsatisfactory,especially for protracted
procurement procedures and sometimes ad hoc acquisitions, such as the sole source
purchase-against     the spirit o fthe project-of  an inadequate traffic light system
whose poor performance underminedthe project outcome.

5.3      Environmental Improvement (Cr. 2757): Inthis case, project objectives are
substantially relevant to GOSL's and the Bank's current priorities for environmental
improvement and management o f environmental safeguards, as reported inthe latest
CAS (World Bank 2003, pp. 16 and 27). But efficacy inachieving those objectives i s
rated only modest, given the failure to achieve three out o f the four objectives.
Project efficiency i s also rated modest, since the operation incurred considerable
expenses for a very modest result. Since it did not achieve most o f its main
objectives, the overall outcomeo f the project i s rated unsatisfactory. Sustainability
i s ratedas unlikely; lack o f priority for and attention to monitoring has already
weakened the resilience o fthe limitedbenefits achieved. Institutional development
impact i s ratednegligible, since there has beenno demonstrably significant
improvement inGSOL's use o f resources to further improve environment in
Colombo. Bankperformance i s ratedunsatisfactory, principally for the poor quality
at entry that came from an unnecessarily rigidproject design that failed to effectively
involve either borrower or beneficiaries. Borrower performance is also rated
unsatisfactory,principally because o f its failure to implement solutions for solid
waste and wastewater pollution. Poor procurement management was a factor too.

                                             14


5.4      Y2K(Cr. 3162): This project's objective is only modestlyrelevantsince it
didnot specify the downside for Bank and Sri Lanka's development policies if
nothingwere done about the Y2K problem. Project efficacy andproject efficiency are
bothrated modest, especially since some equipment was delivered after December
31, 1999, too late to help avoid millennium rollover disruption. Overall outcome i s
rated moderatelysatisfactory,as the project apparently achieved its intended
objective, but with significant shortcomings, partly due to doubts about the
counterfactual and attribution. Sustainability i s likely, given the already
demonstrated resilience o f Sri Lanka's economy and banking sector to a Y2K-type
event. The project's institutional development impact i s rated substantial,given that
itintroduced several banksandgovernment agencies to newways o fmanagingand
usingtheir ITresources. For its rapidproject preparationclose supervision, Bank
performance is ratedsatisfactory,despite the incomplete development objective
statement and the cost overestimate at appraisal. For borrowerperformance, the
rating i s also satisfactory, giventhe strong ownership ofthe project and efficient
implementationby the GOSL authorities concerned.

LESSONS

    0    The performance o f a wide range o f projects-not    only those inconflict
         zones-is   vulnerable to the impact o f war, especially through unexpected
         conflict events duringproject implementation. Projects will not do so well
         duringconflict as inapeaceful situation. Spatial separation o fa project from
         active conflict zones does not guarantee that an operation will be free o f
         conflict constraints.

    0    Project design should not be blindto conflict, and must cautiously but
         explicitly address the constraints imposed. War-weary governments are
         unlikely to have strong ownership o f reform unrelatedto the causes o fthe
         conflict. Decentralization may go against centralized conduct o f war. Conflict
         generates a poor business climate that private firms themselves are unwilling
         to invest in.

    0    Itis importantto focus upona clear vision o fthe intendeddevelopment results
         of a project, and to remain focused on them through systematic monitoring
         and evaluation. Inother words, the baseline shouldbe measured, the
         counterfactual clearly understood, and M&E supported and implemented.

Bibliography

Abeyratne, Sirimal. 2001. Economic Roots of Political Conflict: the Case of Sri
       Lanka Colombo, University of Colombo Department ofEconomics.
Arunatilake, Nisha and Sisira Jayasuriya. 2001. The Economic Cost of the War in Sri
       Lanka in: `World Development Vol. 29 No. 9
Central Bank of Sri Lanka. 2000.Annual Report 2000 Colombo, CBSL.
Central Bank of Sri Lanka. 2002. Economic and Social Statistics of Sri Lanka 2002
       Colombo, CBSL.
DFID.2000.Aid, Conflict and Peacebuilding in Sri Lanka London, U.K.Department
       for International Development.
Dissanayake, Leonard and Ravi Pererira. 1996. Restoring Beira Lake: an integrated
       urban environmental planning experience in Colombo, Sri Lanka Washington
       DC,World Bank Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program (MIEP)
       paper.
InfoDev. 2000. The infoDev Y2K Initiative: Scope, Impact, and Lessons Learned
       Washington DC, Global Information and Communications Technology
       Department.
U.S. Senate. 2000. Y2K Aftermath - Crisis Averted: Final Committee Report
       Washington DC, Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Technology
       Problem.
World Bank. 1999. The Colombo Story: Piloting Environmental Change in Sri Lanka
       Washington DC, MetropolitanEnvironmental Improvement Program
World Bank. 2003. Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the
       Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Washington DC, World Bank.
Zwier, Lawrence J. 1998. Sri Lanka: War-torn Island Minneapolis, Lerner
       Publications Company.

                                                   16


   Annex A. BasicData Sheets

   THIRD ROADS             PROJECT(CREDIT2183-CE)

   Key ProjectData (amounts in US$ million)
                                                       Appraisal                      Actual or
                                                       estimate                   current estimate

  Total project costs                                    70.5                           63.6
  Loan amount                                            42.5                           37.8
  Co-financing                                           14.5                           17.1
  Date physicalcomponentscompleted                    06/30/1998                    12/31/1998
  Economicrate of return                                 33%                     52% (see para. 3.1)



   StaffInputs
  Stage ofproject cycle                           ActualLatest Estimate

                                                 Weeks                 US$

  IdentificationlPreparation                       43.5               114.0
  Appraisal-Board                                  27.0                 82.8
  Negotiations through Board Approval                8.7                26.1
  Supervision                                      147.9              447.7
  Completion                                         5.7                18.3
  Total                                            232.8              688.9




Stage of project cycle      Month/  No. of  Days in   Specialized staff skills    Performance rating
                            year    persons  Field       represented al

                                                                              ation Status    Objectives
Through Appraisal           oct-88     2      16            ENG, HE
                            Mar-89     2      16            ENG, HE
                            May-89     1      2                ENG
                            Nov-89     3      11        ENG. HE. unknown
                                                        -  -.  -, -    -
                            I-.A n


 ppraisalthrough Board    I Apr-90 I   3      3          ENG, HE, DlSB

                                              17


Staff Skills:                                               Performance Ratincl Key:
ECON=Economist                 HE=HighwayEngineer           HS=HighlySatisfactory
ENG=Engineer                   PROC=Procurment Specialist   S=Satisfactory
DISB=Disbursement Specialist   TS=TransporlSpecialist       U=Unsatisfactory
TE=Transport Economist                                      HU=HighlyUnsatisfactory

                                               18


 COLOMBO           URBAN     TRANSPORTPROJECT(CREDIT 2495-CE)
 Key ProjectData (amounts in US$ million)
                                               Amraisal                        Actual or
                                                Estimate                    current estimate
Total project costs                               25.3                              18.2
Loan amount                                       20.0                              14.0
Co-financing                                       1.o                               0.5
Date physical componentscompleted              06/30/1999                     06/30/1999
Economic rate of return                           26%                      27% (see: para. 3.4)



 Staff Inputs
Stage ofprojectcycle                            Planned                Actual
                                                Weeks                  Weeks                 US%
Preparationto Appraisal                         2.0                       20.7               70.7
Appraisal-Board                                 2.0                       16.9               53.4
Negotiationsthrough Board Approval              6.0                        1.8                6.0
Supervision                                    62.0                      114.5             378.4
Completion                                      8.0                        0.8               10.2
Total                                          80.0                      154.7             518.7
 Note: *includes estimated 30 staff weeks.




Completion                May-99             10              TE. C              S              S
                          June-99     21     4                TE




 Performance Rating Key:
 H = HighlySatisfactory                           S = Satisfactory
 U = Unsatisfactory                               HU = Highly Unsatisfactory

                                                      19


   COLOMBO ENVIRONMENTAL                    IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (CR. 2757-CE)

   Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                           Appraisal                       Actual or
                                                           Estimate                     current estimate
 Total project costs                                        49.1                             28.8
 Loan amount                                                39.0                             29.9
 Co-financing
 Date physicalcomponentscompleted                         06/30/2001                      0613012001
 Economicrate of return                                       NIA                            NIA



   Staff Inputs
 Stage of project cycle                                ActualLatestEstimate
                                                 Weeks                 US$
 IdentificationlPreparation                          49
 AppraisallNegotiation                               20
 Supervision                                        95*                1212
 ICR

 Total                                              164
   Note: *includes estimated 30 staff weeks.



   Mission Data
                        Month/     No. of   lays ir   Specialized staff skills         Performance rating
cycle                    year      persons  -Field         represented a/          Implementation IDevelopmeni
                                                                                       status     I Objectives
                      Mayll991        4               1 Engineer, IMunicipal      I
                                                   Engineer, 1 FinancialAnalyst
                      May11993        5             1 Engineer, 1Environmental
                                                    Engineer, 1W&S Engineer,
                                                     InstitutionalDevelopment
I                                                       Specialist, 1 Legal
                      July11993       8            I Engineer, 1 Sanitation
                                                   Zngineer, 1Water &
                                                   sanitation Specialist, 1 Legal,

I                                                  I GIS Spec, 1 Environmental
                                                   spec, 1 Op. Assistant
                      Decll993        9              1 Engineer, 1 Institutional
                                                     DevelopmentSpecialist, 1
-=                                                      W& S Engineer, 1
                                                    EnvironmentalSpecialist, 1
                                                   Op. Assistant, 1 SolidWaste
                                                           Spec, 1 Legal
                      Septll994       7              1 Engineer, 1 Economist,
Negotiation                                        N&S Engineer, 1 Solid Waste
                                                                Spec
                      Marl1995       4              1 Unit Chief, 1Sr. Financial
                                                      Analyst, 1 Principal Port
                                                     Engineer, 1 Environment
                                                              Specialist
  upervision          Novll995       2             1 Sr. FinancialAnalyst, 1 Sr.         S              S
                                                      EnvironmentalEngineer
                                                      1 Sr. FinancialAnalyst             S              S
I                                                     1 Sr. FinancialAnalyst             S              S

                                                    1Sr. FinancialAnalyst, ! Sr.         S              S
                                                    EnvironmentalEngineer, 1
                                                       Sanitary Engineer, 1
                                 t                    ProcurementSpecialist

                                            20


tage of project   Month/    No. of Days in  Specialized staff skills        Performan ? rating
(cle               year    persons  Field        represented a/         Implementation levelopmen
                                                                            status      0bjectives
                June11998-    1              1 Sr. FinancialAnalyst           S             S
                   PSR
                 Madl999      5           1 Sr. EnvironmentalEngineer,        U
                                             1 Sanitary Engineer, 1
                                            Procurement Specialist, 1
                                               PrincipalOperations
                                            Specialist, 1 Operations
                                                    Assistant
                Aug/l999     4            1 Sr. EnvironmentalEngineer,        U
                                             1 Sanitary Engineer, 1
                                            Procurement Specialist, 1
                                              Operations Assistant
                Dec/l999-     1           1Sr. EnvironmentalEngineer          U             U
                PSR update
                May/2000     6            1Sr. EnvironmentalEngineer,         U
                                             1 Sanitary Engineer,2
                                           ProcurementSpecialists, 1
                                                FinancialAnalyst,l
                                              OperationsAssistant
                 Jan/2001    4            1 Procurement Specialist, 1         U
                                            Sanitary Engineer, 1 Sr.
                                           EnvironmentalEngineer, 1
                                                FinancialAnalyst
                June12001-    1             1 ProcurementSpecialist           U             U
                PSR update
:R                           4            1ImplementationSpecialist, 1        U             U
                                                 Sr. Sanitation&
                                           EnvironmentalEngineer, 1
                                          Sanitary Engineer, 1 Financial

                                             21


 YEAR2000 EMERGENCY                 ASSISTANCEPROJECT CR.3162-CE)
                                                              -

 Key ProjectData (amounts inUS$ million)
                                                Appraisal                  Actualor
                                                 Estimate               current estimate
Total project costs                              38.0                        21.2
Loan amount                                      29.0                        14.7
Co-financing                                       8.0                         6.5
Date physical components completed              06/30/2001                06/30/2001
Economic rate of return                            N/A                       N/A



  StaffInputs
Stage of project cycle                        ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                          Weeks              US$

AppraisaVNegotiation                        11               64.13
Supervision                                 41              191.11
ICR                                          8               25.70

Total                                       60              280.94
 Costs includetravel and labor




     6/2001                       One             Information            S              S
                                             Technology/lnformatics
                                  One   -  Economist/OperationsOfficer
                                  One         Industrial Economist/
                                                Financial Sector
                                  one        Financial Management
                                                   Specialist


