Document of
The World Bank
~~~~
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No P-3266-LBI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
SECOND LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 12, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace Of
their official dutes. Is contents may not otherwise be dLsclosed without World Bank _utbonain



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar
with a par value equal to the US dollar. The US
dollar is a legal tender in Liberia
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDB      -    Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
ADB       -    African Development Bank
ADF       -    African Development Fund
CDA       -    Cooperative Development Agency
LPMC      -    Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation
M&E       -    Monitoring and Evaluation
TCU       -    Town Cooperative Unit(s)
T&V       -    Training and visit, a form of agricultural
extension service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA - SECOND LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Liberia
Amount:             SDRs 13.3 million (US$15.5 million)
Terms:              Standard
Onlending Terms:   Up to SDR 4.3 million (US$5.0 million) would be onlent to
farmers through the cooperative system to help finance farm
inputs. Interest charges to final borrowers would be 15
percent per annum for seasonal loans and 12 percent for
development loans.
Project
Description:       The project aims at increasing food production and farm
incomes by extending the assistance to smallholder farmers
initiated under the first project (Cr. 577-LBR) to the
whole of upper Lofa County. Support to develop upland
rice, coffee and cocoa as well as cassava, would be pro-
vided to farmers in the upper Lofa area not reached by the
first project. The project would include: the supply
of agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers, on credit;
extension services; improvements in an agricultural produce
marketing corporation and in the operations of agricultural
cooperatives; construction of feeder roads, farm access
tracks, farmer subcenters, and village wells and latrines;
schistosomiasis surveillance services; as well as monitor-
ing and evaluation and technical assistance. Up to 8,000
farm families are expected to benefit directly from this
project, bringing the total number of families who would
benefit from both phases to about 16,000; such families
would earn significantly higher incomes. Improvement in
agricultural services, roads and wells introduced under
both phases would benefit more than 60 percent of the rural
families in the region. Most of the institutional risks
associated with integrated agricultural development projects
would be reduced because the organizational structure is in
place, farmer response has been tested, and the techniques
to be introduced are simple and have been proven under the
first phase. The main risks are of difficulties in streng-
thening input, credit and marketing services through
cooperatives and in improving the performance of the
marketing corporation. To minimize these risks, respon-
sibilities would only be handed over to the cooperatives
after they had been improved and technical assistance would
be provided to the marketing corporation. On the whole,
the project presents a moderate level of risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC aut,hbrization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost 1/
US$ Million
Local      Foreign      Total
Administration                               0.8         0.7         1.5
Agricultural Extension                       2.1         1.1         3.2
Training                                     0.5         0.5         1.0
Plant Protection and Research                1.5         0.4         1.9
Cooperatives & Commercial Services           2.2         1.8         4.0
Farm Inputs                                  1.5         2.4         3.9
Schistosomiasis Control Unit                 0.2         0.2         0.4
Roads, Wells and Latrines                    0.7         1.5         2.2
Land Planning                                0.3         0.3         0.6
Central Monitoring & Evaluation Unit         0.6         0.5         1.1
Project Monitoring & Evaluation Unit         0.4         0.2         0.6
Consultancy & Technical Assistance           0.2         0.4         0.6
Project Preparation Facility                 0.0         0.1         0.1
Total Base Cost                  11.0        10.1        21.1
Physical Contingency              0.1         0.5         0.6
Price Contingency                 3.2         3.1         6.3
TOTAL                            14.3        13.7        28.0
Financing Plan
IDA                                          6.8         8.7        15.5
African Development Fund                     4.6         5.0         9.6
Government                                   2.9          -          2.9
TOTAL                            14.3        13.7        28.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA FY                                 83       84       85       86       87
Annual                                 1.3      3.5      4.9      4.5      1.3
Cumulative                             1.3      4.8      9.7    14.2    15.5
Rate of Return: 17 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3677-LBR, April 5, 1982
Map: IBRD No. 15550
1/   Net of taxes and duties, from which the project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A SECOND LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Liberia for the equivalent of SDR13.3 million
(US$15.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second
Lofa County agricultural development project. Up to SDR4.3 million (US$5.0
million) of the credit would be onlent to farmers through the cooperative
system; interest charges to final borrowers would be 15 percent per annum for
seasonal loans and 12 percent for development loans; repayment of the former
would be made over 10-12 months and of the latter over 10-12 years including
five of grace. The project would be cofinanced by the African Development
Fund which would provide a loan equivalent to about US$9.6 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, entitled "Liberia:  Current Economic Situation
and Prospects" (No. 2662-LBR), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 28, 1979. An economic mission visited Liberia in October 1981 to
review the current economic situation and its report is in preparation; its
principal findings are included in the following paragraphs. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the
performance of the enclave sector, consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are the
main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by far the largest single
activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one-third of gross
domestic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages between the
enclaves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits of economic
growth have been unevenly distributed.
4.        The income disparities between traditional agriculture and the
(monetized) modern sector are a manifestation of structural imbalance in the
economy. Traditional agriculture has minimal interaction with the rest of
the economy; however, it supports the majority of the population - as much as
60 percent - who live at, or near, subsistence level. With a population of
about 1.7 million, average per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated at US$500.
While the enclave sector yields a per capita GNP of about US$1,620 compared
to US$780 for the rest of the monetized economy, the great majority of the
population who live in the traditional non-monetized sector have a per capita
income of about US$185 per annum.
1/   This sector is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Monrovia Urban Development Project (P-3239-LBR) of March 11, 1982.



- 2 -
Development Plan and General Economic Policy
5.        After completing its first four-year Development Plan, Liberia
has embarked upon preparation of a Second Plan. The first Plan was intended
as the first of a series of multi-year investment programs aimed at meeting
the basic, long-term objectives of Liberia's socio-economic development.
These are: (a) diversification of production; (b) dispersion of sustainable
socio-economic activities throughout the country; (c) greater involvement of
Liberians in development activities; and (d) equitable distribution of the
benefits of economic growth. Performance under the first Plan fell short of
expectations. Investment in the productive sectors was below the original
target, while one-fourth of total expenditure during the Plan period was for
facilities and buildings for the Organization of African Unity (OAU) confer-
ence, which had not been included in the original Plan.
6.        The new Government which assumed power in April 1980, reaffirmed
the broad objectives of the First Plan. Work had been initiated under the
former Government on the preparation of the Second Plan (FY82-86) which is
scheduled for completion shortly. The general economic policy statement
issued by the Government of the People's Redemption Council on June 5, 1980
sets out the broad objectives of the new regime. The main thrust of the
economic policy is to expand the country's productive capacity, especially in
agriculture, and to ensure that benefits from economic growth and development
are enjoyed by an increasing number of Liberians. To achieve this end, the
Government intends to encourage local and foreign private investment and give
priority to labor intensive investments. Significant measures taken by the
new Government since its assumption of office include decisions: (a) to
retain the Liberian dollar at par with the US dollar, which remains legal
tender in Liberia; (b) to honor all existing contractual agreements with
foreign private investors and to change such agreements only through negotia-
tions with all parties concerned; (c) to permit the free flow of capital,
goods and services; and (d) to regulate labor relations by full protection
of the rights of both workers and management.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        While strong world demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore,
brought large gains from exports up to 1974, the subsequent recession in
industrialized countries significantly reduced demand for the country's most
important export commodities--iron ore, rubber and timber. With growth
performance continuing to be largely a function of enclave activities, growth
of real GDP--which averaged about 6.3 percent a year in the 1967-70 period and
4.2 percent a year in the 1970-74 period--has slowed down significantly and is
estimated to have been about 0.7 percent a year between 1974 and 1980.
Economic performance in 1979 and the first quarter of 1980 had taken a turn
for the better, but following the change in Government in April 1980 there was
a setback in growth because of loss of confidence in the private sector and,
according to the preliminary estimates, real GDP declined by 3.8 percent
in 1980.



- 3 -
8.        During 1974-78, mostly reflecting accelerated international infla-
tion, imports rose by 14 percent annually, exceeding the 5 percent annual
export growth rate. However, a temporary resurgence in world prices of iron
ore, timber and rubber helped Liberia to expand its exports by 10 percent in
1979 and 14 percent in 1980. Oil imports increased from US$15 million in 1973
to US$152 million in 1980, or 28 percent of the country's total imports. But
higher prices for Liberia's major exports helped achieve a trade surplus of
US$66.1 million in 1980; the growth in imports has been relatively lower in
the last 18 months due to the general slack in economic activities following
the change in Government. The current account deficit, reflecting substantial
remittances of capital and other factor income from enclave operations,
increased to about US$104 million in 1980, or 10 percent of GDP, as compared
to US$30 million in 1974, or 5 percent of GDP. Rising current account deficits
were financed mostly by private capital transactions, but in the last two
years official capital inflows have risen substantially.
9.        Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management and public
sector resources did not come under undue pressure until the mid-1970s. Since
1974, the Government has been facing growing budgetary deficits. The deficit
in 1975 was only about US$4.0 million, but by FY1980 it had reached US$111
million, or 62 percent of government revenues. The strain on public sector
finances intensified during 1979-80 and assumed serious proportions in the
aftermath of the change in Government. The decline in public revenues,
coupled with a decision to increase the salaries of low-paid military personnel
from $100 to $250 per month and the payment of pending bills from the OAU
Conference, increased the overall budgetary deficit to $136 million in FY1981
(13 percent of GDP). The shortfall in revenues was caused largely by lower
import duty collection in the last quarter. The doubling of salaries of the
lowest grade civilian employees from July 1, 1980 aggravated the budgetary
deficit for FY1981 and the Government was faced with a serious liquidity
crisis when it approached the IMF in May 1980 for further assistance.
Relations with the IMF
10.       In July 1980 the new Government introduced a two-year stabilization
program to be supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF. Major elements
in the stabilization program included tighter fiscal policies and stricter
control of the financial operations of the public corporations, increased
X         mobilization of domestic revenues, rationalisation of energy pricing policies,
a freeze on wages and salaries of Government employees and elimination of
consumer subsidies. Limits were placed on new borrowings with a maturity of
one to twelve years and on credit to the Government and the public sector from
the banking system.
11..      By early 1981, the Government had introduced the necessary measures
to revise tax rates and levy import surcharges. However, the overall deficit
in FY81 was $136 million (62 percent of Government revenues), or $61 million
higher than the original budget estimates. While revenue collection was
higher by 8 percent as compared to the previous year, it fell short of the



- 4 -
expected yields as a result of a decline in customs duties. There was
also some increase in recurrent expenditures beyond budget estimates. This
budgetary imbalance, lack of strict control on the operations of public
corporations, and the consumer subsidy on rice were some of the major issues
addressed in the context of the second year of the stabilisation program. To
address them, the Government announced elimination of the consumer subsidy on
rice; a new progressive national reconstruction tax on wages, salaries and
self-employed income, and increased excise taxes on beer and gasoline. The
Government also proposes to improve the financial viability of the public
corporations. The IMF Board approved the program in August 1981 and made
available SDR 55 million for the second year of the Standby Arrangement.
12.       Monthly payments for oil imports continue to create a serious
liquidity problem on public sector finances as receipts generated abroad
are not sufficient to meet oil payments and service the public sector's
external debt. U.S. Government grants from the Economic Support Fund have
upto now helped to ease the situation.
Creditworthiness
13.       Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was
estimated at about US$537 million as of December 1980. The Bank Group share
of the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 15 percent
and is expected to increase to about 24 percent by 1984. As a proportion
of public debt servicing liability, the Bank Group's share is expected to
increase from 14 percent to 18 percent over the same period. Debt service
payments as a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services were
estimated at about 7 percent in 1980 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7 percent for
1972 and 1974 respectively. Public debt service payments as a percentage of
Government revenues (a more meaningful indicator for Liberia which uses the
US dollar as a medium of exchange) declined from about 24 percent in 1972 and
21 percent in 1974 to 16.5 percent in 1978, but has again gone up to 23 per-
cent in 1980. This upsurge in the debt service ratio has occurred primarily
as a result of short-maturity loans contracted by Liberia in the last few
years to finance OAU-related expenditures and to meet the growing budgetary
deficits. This increase in debt servicing obligations created severe pressures
on Liberia's public finances. The Government therefore sought and obtained
the assistance of the Paris Club in rescheduling its external public sector
debt of US$32 million maturing during the period July 1980 to December 1981;
the rescheduled debt is to be repaid over 9 years, including four years of
grace. In December 1981 further relief was requested and Liberia obtained an
18 month extension, with extension from October 1, 1982 to June 30, 1983
subject to renewal of the standby agreement with the IMF when it expires in
September 1982.
14.       Assuming a continuation of the recent rate of growth in public
revenues and exports (10 percent and 5 percent per annum, respectively)
Liberia's debt service ratio is estimated to increase to about 33 percent
of public revenues and 12 percent of exports by 1985; should there be an
improvement in the country-s economic prospects over the next few years,
the debt service ratio would be somewhat lower (around 29 percent) by 1985.



Although the movement in world prices of Liberia's main export commodities in
1981 was not particularly favorable, the growth in export earnings is projected
to be higher in subsequent years as a result of the likely strengthening in
demand for iron ore and an increase in iron ore prices. Forecasts for natural
rubber prices also indicate a consistently upward movement, and Liberia may
expect higher yields from the recently replanted acreage and new planting of
rubber. Other ongoing agriculture projects (particularly for coffee, cocoa,
palm oil), and successful exploration and development of other mining resources,
including gold and barite, will help diversify the economy and should result
in an acceleration in the rate of growth of exports during the next three to
four years. Public revenues will benefit from these increased export earnings.
However, these prospects are clearly contingent upon a number of policy
measures which the Government has to initiate and sustain over the next years,
e.g., a reduction in the size of the Government budget deficit, restraint on
new commercial borrowings and public sector credit expansion, increased
mobilization of public savings, maintenance of the traditional openness of
the economy, appropriate pricing and tariff policies, revival of investor
confidence, inflow of new private investment and improvement in the coordina-
tion of overall economic management. Although Liberia has acute short-term
liquidity problems, restoration of growth and stability is feasible, provided
the Government is able and willing to pursue the right course.
15.       In recent years Bank group lending to Liberia has been a blend of
IDA credits and Bank loans; in view of the country's relatively low per capita
income and high public debt service liability, continued IDA assistance is
justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA 1/
16.       As of January 31, 1982 the Bank had approved 21 loans (including
one Third Window loan) for projects in Liberia totalling US$155.77 million;
there have been 9 IDA credits totalling US$47.9 million, and one technical
assistance grant of US$200,000 for development planning. IFC has made two
equity investments totalling US$550,000 in the share capital of the Liberian
Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI). The Bank Group assistance has
financed roads, agriculture, rural development, power, education, water
supply, industry and mining, small enterprises, and petroleum pre-exploration.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
investments as of January 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as of December 31, 1981.
17.       Bank Group disbursements for projects in Liberia increased steadily
from FY78 to FY81 when disbursements were equivalent to 26 percent of credits
and loans outstanding at the beginning of that fiscal year. This performance
was made possible by close coordination with the budgetary authorities, which
consistently earmarked sufficient counterpart resources to Bank Group supported
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Monrovia Urban Development Project (P-3239-LBR) of March 11, 1982.



- 6 -
projects in Liberia. In spite of its continued commitment to such projects,
the Government is now experiencing some difficulty in providing counterpart
resources because of the sharp deterioration in public finances discussed
in Part I of this report. Close monitoring of project implementation and
continued coordination with the budgetary authorities should avoid excessive
delays in implementation due to lack of counterpart resources. However, the
Government's present resource position is being taken into account in struc-
turing new projects: their size is being limited to essentials and as much
foreign financing as possible is being provided so as to reduce the need for
Government contributions.
18.       The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiative in developing their own resources for the benefit of
their people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to a broader
distribution of the benefits of economic growth; (c) to help the Government
broaden the economic base and overcome infrastructural constraints to growth;
and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing development resources from
other external agencies. In furthering these objectives, particular attention
is being paid to (a) the need to expand the supply of trained manpower and
(b) measures to strengthen and improve the operations and finances of the
public corporations in Liberia.
19.       In support of the objectives of raising the standard of living of
lower income groups and broadening the productive base, the Bank Group
lending program emphasizes agriculture and rural development. The Bank
Group is currently cofinancing with USAID two agricultural projects in Bong
and Lofa Counties. These projects are designed to (a) assist subsistence
farmers to expand their production base and to increase their productivity
and income through the provision of support services and infrastructure,
and (b) to help diversify the country's export and revenue base. A rubber
project, co-financed with the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC),
is aimed at expanding exports and increasing the productivity and incomes
of small and medium size farmers. A forestry project which the Bank is
co-financing with the African Development Bank (ADB) and the German Agency
for Technical Cooperation, is aimed at strengthening the Government-s forest
service, initiating an industrial plantation program, and helping Liberia
better manage and exploit its forestry resources. An oil palm project,
cofinanced by the ADB and the CDC, would help expand and diversify the
country's export and revenue base, provide employment, increase the income
level of rural families, and strengthen the institutional capability in the
country for oil palm development.
20.       In addition to its support for agriculture, the Bank Group is
also assisting the Government in its diversification efforts through credits
to LBDI for the manufacturing sector. A small and medium scale enterprises
project, approved in November 1980, seeks to stimulate economic activity and
employment by providing credit and technical assistance. While reinforcing
the Government's efforts to become less dependent on mining, the Bank has
granted loans for a project to rehabilitate a mine operated by the National



- 7 -
Iron Ore Company, which would help maintain employment, increase Government
revenues and prepare the way for an orderly transition from mining to other
economic activities in the area. The objective of the petroleum exploration
promotion project, approved in October 1980, is to establish Liberia's hydro-
carbon potential by attracting oil companies to take oil exploration permits
in Liberia.
21.       Given Liberia's pressing needs for physical infrastructure, the
Bank Group continues to play a leading role in financing development and
maintenance of roads and water supply and power facilities. A water supply
project for which a Credit was granted in 1978 is designed to help rehabi-
litate and expand the Monrovia water supply system, extend water distribution
to lower income groups in metropolitan areas, and strengthen the management,
staffing, and finances of the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation (LWSC). The
feeder roads project for which a Bank loan was approved in 1979 is designed
to open up the agricultural hinterland of Liberia to support ongoing and
proposed agricultural and rural development programs. The nearly completed
fourth highway project has, like earlier Bank-financed projects, expanded
the country's limited basic road network. A fifth highway project to improve
the country's road maintenance capability is being considered. In the power
sector, a nearly completed fourth power project has expanded the Liberia
Electricity Corporation's (LEC) thermal generating facilities to meet current
demand, strengthened LEC's management, and extended connections to poor urban
households in Monrovia. Bank Group assistance would also be considered to
meet Liberia's longer term electricity needs through hydropower development.
22.       Since the lack of trained manpower is a major constraint to develop-
ment in Liberia, the Bank Group has financed three education projects and is
currently financing preparation of a fourth project through an advance from
the PPF. The proposed project would emphasize manpower training and upgrade
primary education.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Characteristics
23.       Agriculture is the largest productive sector in Liberia's economy,
accounting for 35 percent of GDP. The rate of growth of agriculture is
estimated at 4.1 percent per annum for the period 1976 to 1980. About
60 percent of the total population of Liberia earn a livelihood from agricul-
ture. With 15 persons per square kilometer, Liberia's average population
density is low and moreover there is a wide range (5 to 80 people per square
kilometer) in various parts of the country. Thus, land is not a constraint to
agricultural development. Rice is the main staple, and is largely grown on
the upland areas under a traditional system of shifting cultivation which
provides a relatively fertile environment to produce a yearly crop. Upland
areas are also used to produce tree crops.



24.       Farming operations fall into three categories in Liberia:  (a) con-
cessions consisting of large foreign-owned plantations producing exclusively
for export (e.g. rubber and timber) employing trained managerial and technical
staff and capital-intensive methods; (b) Liberian-owned commercial farms
engaged primarily in rubber production, but with secondary interests in other
activities such as coffee, oil palm, cocoa, and some poultry and pig produc-
tion; and (c) traditional subsistence farming by which small farmers produce
mainly for home consumption. Some 90 percent of all households engaged in
agriculture are in the last category. Except for those associated with
agricultural development projects, most farmers in the traditional sector
are largely outside the monetized economy; they have access to minimal infra-
structure and cultivate less than 2 hectares per year of subsistence crops,
mainly rice and cassava, with some cash crops such as coffee, cocoa and sugar
cane. Thus, there is a considerable untapped potential for developing agri-
culture in Liberia.
Government Objectives, Strategy and Constraints
25.       The Government gives high priority to agricultural and rural
development, particularly for the benefit of smallholders. Allocations for
agriculture increased from about 4 percent of the public sector development
budget in FY70 to about 21 percent in FY80. In the FY81 development budget,
the largest sectoral allocation (30 percent) was for agriculture. The Govern-
ment-s objective is to improve traditional farming by increasing on-farm
productivity and supporting marketing and processing, as well as related
social and other infrastructure.
26.       The Government's strategy for agricultural development consists
of: (a) encouragement of smallholder production of rubber, coffee, cocoa
and oil palm crops which help diversify agricultural production and increase
export earnings; (b) implementation of projects designed to raise the income
level and living conditions of traditional farmers, which represent the vast
majority of the rural population; and (c) improvement of agricultural services
to traditional farmers, particularly extension and research but also programs
such as the improved rice seed supply service. The Government has abandoned
its earlier strategy of promoting large-scale and mechanized rice projects,
principally because of their costliness and uneconomic results.
27.       Though the above strategy has begun to have an impact, there are
still a number of constraints on agricultural development. These include
inadequate feeder roads, and transport, storage and marketing facilities.
Input availability and distribution, as well as agricultural support services,
are also inadequate. There is a shortage of qualified and experienced
agricultural officers and crop specialists, and the extension staff in contact
with farmers is inadequately trained, ill equipped, and poorly supervised.
Farmers- organizations, particularly cooperatives, are still in the early
stages of development and only play a limited role in development. Despite a
reorganization, the Ministry of Agriculture has not yet equipped itself for
policy-making, sectoral planning, and project preparation and implementation.



- 9 -
Budgetary constraints prevent the Ministry from providing adequate logistical
support to its field staff. Such constraints also affect institutions such
as the Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB) and the Liberia
Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC), both of which play an important role in
supporting smallholder agriculture. The ACDB has been unable to provide
credit to the traditional farmers, while LPMC's buying services have been
adversely affected by liquidity problems, and, more recently, by the decline
in world prices for coffee and cocoa which has exposed the weaknesses of its
marketing operations.
Bank Group Lending
28.       Bank Group lending for agriculture supports the Government's objec-
tives of diversifying production and increasing smallholder participation in
development. Bank Group support, for a total of US$45.6 million has been
provided for six projects in the sector. The first operation (Cr. 306-LBR of
US$1.6 million - 1972) was for a pilot rubber development study and technical
assistance to help prepare projects, and led to Bank Group involvement in the
Phase I Lofa County Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 577-LBR of US$6
million), the Bong County Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 700-LBR of
US$7 million), and the Rubber Development Project (Cr. 786-LBR of US$6 million
and Ln 1544-LBR of US$7 million). A Forestry Development Project (Cr. 839-LBR
of US$6 million) and an Oil Palm Project (Ln. 1765-LBR for US$12 million) have
since been added.
29.       The first phase Lofa County Agricultural Development Project is
being cofinanced by USAID, IDA and the Government of Liberia. The IDA Credit
became effective in May 1976. The project aims at increasing the productivity
of smallholder farms in a limited area in upper Lofa County. It includes
training for extension workers so that they, in turn, may motivate farmers
to improve farming techniques; feeder roads and well construction; the devel-
opment of cooperatives; the supply of agricultural inputs and credit, and the
monitoring of, and protection against, schistosomiasis. Farmers have become
aware of the benefits to be derived from these improvements and there has been
considerable enthusiasm in upper Lofa for the project; improvements in agri-
culture are evident. While performance on the whole has been satisfactory it
was found advisable to modify the project as experience was gained during
implementation. Thus, one component (cocoa rehabilitation) was dropped
*         because it proved uneconomic, another was added (latrine construction) and
another modified (upland rice) because farmers did not respond well to the use
of fertilizers. It was also found that response to the swamp rice component
was weak in areas of low population density.  Since this project was Liberia's
first integrated agricultural development project, these changes in some of
its components can be considered to be normal. These experiences have been
taken into account in structuring the proposed project. To date, some 600 km
of newly constructed and reconditioned feeder roads have been finished as well
as 195 village wells, 80 latrines, 27 farmer and staff training centres, one
vehicle workshop and four district offices. These works have been completed
with self-help participation in most cases. The project aims at increasing
the production of rice, the traditional food crop, while developing new cash
crops, coffee and cocoa. Farmers have responded well to the introduction of
water control and other improvements in swamp rice production, and have



- 10 -
attained 98 percent the appraisal production target. Ninety-three percent of
the upland rice target was also attained, while cocoa and coffee targets were
78 and 50 percent attained, respectively. The cocoa and coffee project
components experienced unforeseen shortages of seedlings, and all components
were adversely affected in 1980 by disruptions during the change of Government.
30.        Project management was in the hands of a team of expatriates to
begin with; this team worked closely with its Liberian counterparts and
handed over management to Liberians in 1979. The Liberian Management has
run the project satisfactorily since then. The project has succeeded in
developing an enthusiastic and well motivated staff, in making farmers
receptive to project activities, and in establishing a physical infrastruc-
ture which makes a significant contribution to the development of the area.
However, a longer association between extension staff and farmers is necessary
to sustain the application of improved techniques and to extend benefits to
farmers not affected by the first phase project. An eventual merging of
Ministry of Agriculture and project staff in the County is desirable in the
interest of rationalizing extension and related services, thus reducing costs
to the Government. An effort to strengthen the cooperatives is also required
so that they take over responsibilities for farm input supply, credit and
marketing. LPMC's pricing mechanism and purchasing arrangements for farmer
produce (particularly coffee and cocoa) must also be improved to obtain
greater efficiency in marketing. All these issues would be addressed by
the proposed project.
31.        A summary discussion of the progress made in carrying out the
remaining Bank Group supported projects in the agricultural sector may be
found in Annex II. In general, progress has been satisfactory; though the
Government has been extremely short of resources for investment, it has
provided sufficient counterpart funds for all Bank Group assisted projects
in the sector, demonstrating the high priority given to agricultural develop-
ment.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.        The project would be the second phase of the Lofa County Agricul-
tural Development Project, the first phase of which is being financed by
IDA under Credit 577-LBR (see paras 29, 30 and Annex II). In view of good
progress being made under the first project, the Government requested in
mid-1979 that IDA consider a second.  The project was prepared during 1980 by
the Ministry of Agriculture with IDA assistance and a project report was
concluded in January 1981. IDA appraised the project in May-June 1981 and
negotiations were held in Washington in January 1982. The Liberian Delegation
was headed by Mr. Alfred Fromayan, Minister of Agriculture, and included
officials from his Ministry as well as from the Ministries of Finance and of
Justice. The ADF was represented at these negotiations and appraised the
project in February 1982.



- 11 -
Project Objectives
33.       The proposed project would consolidate the experiences and achieve-
ments of the first Lofa County Agricultural Development Project and extend
agricultural services to that part of the upper Lofa County not covered by the
first project. An additional 8,000 farm households are expected to benefit
directly from the proposed project, bringing the total number of families
affected by both projects to some 16,000.  The proposed project would aim at
increasing production of rice (upland and swamp) and cassava by improved farm
management; new plantings of coffee and cocoa would be carried out and there
would be some rehabilitation of existing smallholder coffee farms.  The
project would also seek to reorganize and strengthen cooperatives to make it
possible for them to take over input distribution, credit, and primary produce
marketing functions; it would also start the integration of project staff with
the Ministry of Agriculture and seek to improve the operations of LPMC.
Special assistance would also be provided to women-farmers.
Project Area
34.       The project area would be extended to include the whole of the upper
part of Lofa County. It is situated in northern Liberia and borders with
Sierra Leone in the west, and with Guinea in the north and east. Upper Lofa
consists of an area of about 8,000 sq. km; high ground soils are generally
well suited to coffee and cocoa growing while lowland soils are suitable for
rice and vegetable growing. The area has good potential for agricultural
production and contains an estimated population of 185,000 people, of which
some 90 percent, or 166,500, are engaged in agriculture. The most heavily
populated part of Lofa County is in the project area, and four of Lofa-s six
administrative districts are in the project area. The County is administered
by a County Superintendent who is appointed by the Head of State.
Project Description
35.       The Project would include the following components:
(i) the supply on credit of agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers, to
improve production of upland and swamp rice, cassava, coffee and
cocoa;
(ii) expansion and improvement of extension services using the
Training and Visit (T & V) system with female extension workers
*                   to reach women-farmers;
(iii) staff training to improve the extension program and cooperatives;
(iv) production of improved cocoa and coffee seedlings and cassava
setts, and adaptive research into upland cropping systems;
(v) improvement of cooperatives to enable them to take over res-
ponsibility for input supply, credit and marketing;



- 12 -
(vi) improvements in the marketing operations of the LPMC;
(vii) schistosomiasis monitoring and control in swamp rice areas;
(viii) construction, upgrading and maintainance of feeder roads and
farm tracks, village wells and latrines; and
(ix) the establishment of a central monitoring and evaluation section of
the Ministry of Agriculture and funding for evaluation studies.
36.       Agricultural Services.  A modified form of the T & V extension
system was introduced in the first project, and was well received by both
extension staff and farmers. The project would build on this experience,
and improve the extension service through closer supervision and coordination
and by periodic reviews to be introduced with the help of experienced con-
sultants. The present training program for extension workers would be expanded
to cover the project's agricultural program (6,300 ha of upland rice, 1,100 ha
of swamp rice, 3,590 ha of coffee, 1,940 ha of cocoa and 600 ha of cassava);
it would also provide special training to farmers using existing training
facilities. Extension services would be provided to farmers' wives and to
female-farmers through female home extension workers. Extension staff would
work in close cooperation with the Project Unit's Adaptive Research Section,
which would serve as the county's clearing house for local research on exist-
ing and new crops. The project would promote the participation of farmers as
much as possible in agricultural development activities, and would so seek to
make them responsible for managing their development affairs. The use of
village level cooperative units, group meetings under the T & V system and
other group activities are expected to result in heightened levels of commit-
ment and responsibility. By project completion, farmers should provide
some 60 percent of their own coffee and cocoa seedling requirements from
collective or town nurseries, and responsibility for providing inputs, credit
and marketing should have been taken over by cooperatives.
37.       Cooperatives, Credit Inputs, and Marketing.  The project would give
major emphasis to the development of existing cooperative societies in the
project area and their affiliated Town Cooperative Units (TCUs). The Govern-
ment's newly established Cooperative Development Agency (CDA) would carry out
a plan of action agreed upon with IDA and based on a recent consultant's report
to improve the performance of cooperatives. CDA and the ACDB would provide
supervisory and training support while a cooperative specialist would be
provided under the project to help reorganize and improve the operations of
these societies. The CDA would also ensure that the Cooperative Societies
Act's requirements with regard to accounting, auditing and elections of office
bearers in the cooperatives are enforced. The project would include the
construction of four subcenters for farmers to be operated by cooperatives.
While these improvements are being instituted, the Project Unit would continue
to procure, transport, store and distribute inputs of fertilizers, chemicals
and tools on behalf of the societies. The Government would prepare by October
31, 1982 a plan of action satisfactory to IDA to improve the cooperatives and
then carry out such a plan by June 30, 1983. It would also provide such
resources as needed by the CDA to carry out this program and employ by
December 31, 1982 a person with suitable experience in cooperatives for Lofa



- 13 -
County. The Government and IDA would review progress in improving cooperatives
by August 31, 1985 and the Government would take the measures which might
emerge from the review (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.       Inputs would be supplied to farmers on credit for both seasonal
(seeds, fertilizers, chemicals) and development (new farms and farm rehabili-
tation) requirements. Experience gained under the first project suggests
that credit recovery would be satisfactory.  Farmers would be required to
provide at least 5 percent of investment costs in cash or labor, and credit
would be provided for the balance. Except for the labor costs of development
projects, the value of loans would be provided in kind, e.g., fertilizers,
pesticides etc. Interest charges to farmers would be 15 percent per annum for
seasonal loans and 12 percent for development loans, which is in accordance
with interest rates prevailing in Liberia. Consumer prices increased 13.5
percent in 1980 but the rate of price increases has probably declined since
then as a result of restricted liquidity in the country. Repayment would be
over 10-12 months in the case of seasonal loans and up to 12 years, including
five years of grace, in the case of development loans. The value of all
loans for farm inputs, totalling up to SDR4.3 million (US$5.0 million), would
be considered by the cooperatives as an equity contribution by the ACDB, and
the Government, in turn, would consider this amount as an equity investment in
the ACDB. The Government has provided assurances that it would enter into a
financial agreement with ACDB for the transfer of project resources and that
these would be transferred to, and repaid by, cooperatives and farmers at
specified terms and conditions (Section 3.04 and Schedule 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). As bankers for, and shareholders in, coopera-
tive societies, the ACDB would maintain close working relations with them and
would provide guidance and assistance to improve operations.
39.       LPMC sets prices, with Government approval, for the most important
farm produce and makes purchases through a system of licensed buying agents.
However, farmers sometimes receive prices below the announced ones from these
agents. The LPMC has been unprofitable for the last two or three years. The
Government removed a large subsidy element in LPMC's price for rice to con-
sumers and this should reduce LPMC's financial losses. However, the Government
is requesting a detailed study of LPMC's overall operations by consultants
with funding provided under a US$100,000 Project Preparation Facility granted
in February 1982.  The study will recommend measures to improve LPMC's effi-
ciency which would enable LPMC to offer more attractive prices to farmers.
The Government would present a plan of action to improve LPMC before
September 30, 1982 and carry out the plan of action not later than June 30,
m           1984 (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  Technical
assistance would be provided under the project to assist in the implementation
of these measures.
40.       Schistosomiasis, Wells, Latrines and Roads.  The Schistosomiasis
Surveillance Unit established under the first project would continue to
monitor the disease in swamp areas where rice is planted under the project.
Staff, replacement vehicles and equipment, and operating costs including
drugs for treatment of the disease, would be provided. About 160 village
wells and about 100 latrines would be constructed under the project.



- 14 -
41.       A good network of feeder roads and access tracks was established
under the first project. A modest program of some 170 km of feeder roads
and 60 km of farm-access tracks would be constructed in the new project area.
Fuel, lubricants and machine spare parts would be provided under the project;
only minor equipment would be provided since road building machinery is
already available. Road construction receives considerable support from local
communities, and self-help labor is often freely provided. This approach
would be used for both construction and maintenance of roads.
42.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The existing Monitoring and Evaluation
(M & E) Unit would continue its activities under the project. However,
assistance would also be provided to the Government to establish a Central
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, which would
train, coordinate, and supervise the present and planned M & E Units in
regional agricultural development projects such as the ones in Lofa and Bong
Counties. Technical assistance would be provided under the project to help
establish and operate this unit.
Project Implementation
43.       The Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
project implementation, and would delegate operating responsibility to the
Project Manager providing support through its technical and administrative
units. The present Liberian project management staff would be reinforced by
two specialized support positions--one for monitoring and evaluation and the
other to strengthen cooperatives--which would be recruited internationally.
The appointments, and terms and conditions of employment would be acceptable
to IDA (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Govern-
ment intends to appoint the Project Manager as Lofa County Agricultural
Officer; he would thus be in charge of all agricultural support activities
in the County. Appointment of this officer and the principal management
positions in the project unit would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.06 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government plans to decentralize
the Ministry of Agriculture's staff and to integrate it with the administra-
tive structures of regional development projects. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to review with IDA proposals to reorganize the services of
the Ministry of Agriculture in the project area and to ensure that its staff
is used efficiently (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
44.       Total project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties, are
estimated at US$28.0 million of which US$13.7 million, or 49 percent, are
foreign exchange costs. A summary breakdown of costs is shown in the
Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. Cost estimates
are based on mid-1981 prices. Cost estimates for civil works are based on the
experience under the first project. Local staff salaries and emoluments
reflect prevailing costs. The cost of internationally recruited staff is
based on an estimated cost of US$80,000 per man-year, which is in accord with
prevailing conditions. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10
percent for buildings, and 5 percent for civil works, equipment, non-labor



- 15 -
farm inputs and operational costs. Price contingencies are based on annual
local cost increases of 7 percent for personnel and 10 percent for civil works
and operational costs. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on
assumed price increases of 7.8 percent in 1982, 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent
in 1984, 7.0 percent in 1985 and 6 percent in 1986.
45.       The proposed IDA Credit and the African Development Fund (ADF)
loan equivalent to US$9.6 million would together cover 90 percent of total
costs. The Government's contribution of US$2.9 million would cover mostly
local personnel and operating costs. The IDA credit would finance 55 percent
of total project costs, including the equivalent of US$6.8 million of local
costs. Local cost financing is recommended because the Government is facing
severe budgetary constraints and is short of resources for investment. The
ADB has indicated that it is prepared to grant an ADF loan equivalent to
US$9.6 million, which would include the equivalent of US$4.6 million to
finance local costs. A condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit would
be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADF loan be
fulfilled (Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
46.       As discussed in Part I of this report, the Government faces severe
financial constraints which would make it difficult for it to provide the
working capital required for project execution. In view of this, it is
recommended that SDR170,000 (US$200,000) from the IDA credit be deposited
immediately after Credit effectiveness in a special account which the Govern-
ment would open at the National Bank of Liberia. The account would be re-
plenished upon receipt of disbursement requests supported by appropriate
documentation (Section 2.02(c) to (g) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
Procurement
47.       Goods and services financed under the credit would be procured
according to IDA guidelines. Individual contracts for goods valued at
US$75,000 or more would be procured through international competitive bidding.
Purchases would be grouped into packages of at least US$75,000 whenever
possible. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a margin of
preference of 15 percent, or the level of applicable import duty, whichever is
lower. Contracts for civil works and contracts for equipment, vehicles and
fertilizers valued at less than US$75,000 but at more than $10,000, would be
procured through local competitive bidding or limited international bidding
procedures which have been reviewed by, and are acceptable to, IDA. Contracts
valued at less than US$10,000 for small items would be procured by negotiated
purchase after soliciting at least three quotations. Contracts for civil works
would probably not be attractive to foreign contractors due to their small
sizes and dispersed locations and would, therefore, be awarded after local
competitive bidding according to procedures which have been found satisfactory
to IDA. The services of internationally recruited consultants would be
obtained according to IDA guidelines. Labor and local personnel hired for
the project would be obtained from local markets according to Government
procedures. Goods and services financed by the ADF loan would be procured
according to procedures acceptable to the ADB.



- 16 -
Disbursements
48.       Disbursement of the IDA credit would be on the following basis:
for agricultural inputs, 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent
of local expenditures; for civil works, 100 percent of foreign expenditures or
70 percent of local expenditures; for vehicles and equipment, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 90 percent of local expenditures; for consultant
services, 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 85 percent of local expendi-
tures; for staff costs, 90 percent of salaries of the Project Unit to enable
it to carry out the credit and cooperative, extension and monitoring and
evaluation components, and, for other operating expenses, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 90 percent of local expenditures for the credit and
cooperatives components.
49.       Disbursements for vehicles and equipment, civil works, salaries
and allowances of internationally recruited consultants, production inputs,
fuel and spare parts would be made against full documentation submitted to
IDA. In the case of incremental local staff salaries and minor, miscellaneous,
operational expenditures, disbursements would be made against certificates of
expenditure which would be checked in the course of project supervision.
Auditing
50.       The Government would have the accounts for the project audited
yearly by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit reports would
be in a form acceptable to IDA and would include a separate opinion on the
Special Account and on the records in support of statements of expenditure
(Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
51.       Between 7,000 and 8,000 farm families would benefit from the crop
improvement and credit programs under the project. At full development of
their respective crops, and after repaying all development loans, families
would earn incomes 2.5 to 3.5 times greater than their present average income
of about US$350 per annum. Differences in incremental incomes would result
from the choice of different crop combinations.
52.       Improvements in the road network, and construction of village wells
and latrines, would benefit a larger proportion of the rural population than
that affected by the crop improvement and credit programs. In addition,
employment would be created by the increased business activity induced by the
project in other sectors, such as trading, processing, construction, and
transportation. About half of the rural families in the County could benefit
in some way from the project. The training programs and institutional improve-
ments to be introduced would facilitate planning and implementation of future
agricultural development programs.
53.       While incremental revenues to the Government from indirect taxes on
increased production and business activity in Lofa County resulting from the
project would not permit full recovery of project costs, they would be suffi-
cient to cover the recurrent costs of agricultural development administration



- 17 -
and road maintenance in the County once the project is completed. Incomplete
cost recovery is justified by the low level of family incomes in the project
area.
54.       As Liberia is a net importer of food, the incremental food pro-
duction would be readily absorbed by the local market and represent a for-
eign expenditure saving. By 1990, the incremental annual output of rice
would be worth, at border prices, about US$3.2 million (at 1981 prices), net
of the foreign cost of farm inputs. Coffee and cocoa are mainly export crops
and incremental production from the project would add to foreign earnings. It
is not expected that Liberia would face any problem in marketing additional
output since this would be a small proportion of world supply. Liberia is a
member of the International Coffee Organization and its current quota (8,000
tons) is higher than domestic production (6,500 tons); it is not a signatory
to the International Cocoa Agreement. Incremental net annual foreign earnings
from export crops could reach US$7.4 million by 1992.
55.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 17 percent
taking into account project development costs and recurrent costs incurred
by the Government after project completion as well as incremental production
costs incurred by farmers. The benefits are based on the expected incremental
value of crops. Sensitivity analyses indicate that the project is fairly
resilient and would remain viable even if benefits should fall by 20 percent.
56.       Since the project would be the second phase of an integrated agri-
cultural development program in Lofa County and would build upon the institu-
tions and experience of the first project, many of the risks normally asso-
ciated with projects of this nature would be minimized. However, two risks
would be: (a) delays in strengthening and expanding the marketing and credit
services through the cooperative network; and (b) delays in, or failure to,
improve the efficiency of the LPMC. To minimize these risks, transfer of
credit and marketing functions to the cooperatives would be done gradually
and only after providing appropriate management training and other support
assistance. A suitable plan of action for improving LPMC's operations, based
on a study being carried out by consultants, would likewise address the second
risk. On the whole, the project presents a moderate level of risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
*          57.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and IDA as well as the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.



- 18 -
58.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement
which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (a) execution and
delivery of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between the Govern-
ment and ACDB, (b) opening of the special account in the National Bank of
Liberia, and (c) fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of the ADF
Credit.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve
the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D. C.
April 12, 1982
1



- 19 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGE5
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             111.4                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        6.1              1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  160.0        260.0     500.0                 794.2                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       87.5        558.8     448.2                 707.5                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   978.0        1335.0    1797.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 20.5          26.2       32.3                 27.7                      64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          11.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         8.8         12.0      16.1                  55.0                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    163.0         217.0     284.6                 130.7                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.4         46.7      47.6                  46.0                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         50.8      50.0                  51.2                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          2.5       2.4                   2.8                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          3.1       3.3                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               5.4          5.7       5.6                   5.1                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.2         49.3      48.1                  46.9                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.3         16.3      13.6                  15.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.4       3.4                   3.2                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           96.0        101.0     100.0                  89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.0         97.0     104.0                  92.3                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           38.0         41.0      42.0                  52.8                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0         11.0      10.0                  16.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.3         21.9      16.4                  20.2                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.4          49.4      53.5                  50.8                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..           ..        ..                    ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      20.0                  27.4                     65.7
URBAN                                ..           ..      64.0                  74.3                     79.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       6.0                  12.6                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      11.0                    ..                     59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      35.0                    ..                     75.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       6.0                    ..                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          12600.0/c   11754.5    9259.0                13844.1                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      5810.1/c    4651.1    2904.0                 2898.6                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             711.8        592.0     623.0                1028.4                    471.2
URBAN                             181.3        194.4        ..                 423.0                    558.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         27.7
1OL'S ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                               3.9           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                               1.7/d         ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



- 20 -                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                Page  2
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TMTAL                  31.0         53.0      64.0                  73.7                     101.7
MALE                  45.0        71.0       80.0                  96.8                    103.0
FEMALE                18.0        35.0       48.0                  79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          9.0      20.0                  16.2                     35.3
MALE                   3.0        15.0       29.0                  25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0       11.0                  14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)    ..           5.3       3.0                   5.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            32.0         36.0      42.0                  36.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                          12.0         17.0         ..                 23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         8.9/e       15.0      30.0                    ..                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         11.1       8.1                  32.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        102.2        116.1     162.8                  69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.5          4.9       5.9                   8.0                     b9.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.8          5.2       4.9                  20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6           0.6        1.1                  0.7                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       379.8        480.4     605.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.1         32.8      32.1                  36.7                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0         75.6      70.5                  56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.D         11.6      13.7                  17.5                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                38.8         36.0      33.7                  37.2                     31.8
MALE                                 51.9         49.0      46.3                  47.1                      49.0
FEMALE                               26.1         23.3      21.4                  27.5                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.4        1.5                  1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         61.7/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          72.6/f 
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          5.37        .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         10.97       .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      75.0                 156.2                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     137.0                 334.3                    513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     125.0                 137.6                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      23.0
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1964;  /d City of Monrovia only;  /e 1962;  /f Population, higher income calculated as residual;
includes expatriates.
Hay, 1981



- 21--                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3
DiFifINIIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATOiS
totest  Alahoogh  hth  data  -r fdaso fet .sea..e.  generay judged the tatnth tetend reliable, no should alto be notd that they way ant he itee-
earlnahl  nusarah  ....a.e  of the lank ofaadaied.def......a Ied ntt i   ed.by dijffet-et mat  tsOInletu   tedt.  The data ant ........
thelma ... nn.Eal to deenrlh  order  of nogolude, Sdlaetreeds, I teoh annrie   naet  eaI                    ifrne  haetanrh
The  eeeongay  urI h   oecutygopo   h   ojnt, -noney and (2)I ano-nap g,noy oath s--th- higher aneage Innate that the onu..tay group
atsetale         ..anr  fenaynfo  "Coatal -apl_   OIl Etyatea" ouo  uhene "ddle Intone On-t  Alaimo ted mOddle Oust" Be ohaen b-o...e of strt.ter
snooi-not-Ia afflotne.) -  In the _efaena   anno  data                _ the averagesiar   yanoaa   eighted onbihatah  near  foe tank Ondiant- nd thon  only abet
najarfY of sheI ounonri-s iana8rap has data got th., le            a.Sitan  the  --erge of nunrIsstn  the    acaa  dryards on the a-alability ef data
and Is toat noif_em, nantlan  -ts  he eneraisd It teel          ntages of tone idiottur en  athtIe.  TIh..a. rae  ore. onl-y usful On nampartag the  -1-a nO
ate i.di.ee-  ateI eta. eeong the  -antoy and ref-tato   goPe.
LANtD ABEA  thouadsa   )Payn-aia  per Ho-yi,.l Sad - total, -ah-, an.d auraS - Poyalate    teal
Toa      ne   ufn   rantrsa   la   ratdilouta.ubn   n  aul) ivided by thie  resynotOne anher af hospitlbd
aNy r~  CAfTA (SIS  -itP yt ca tta esine  at  noma  maIn  yaes  IaIdalna    pore  othu laded   futa ht                              pial,hasvr,inlie  elob,
nu"asd by a'll  --i-aSo  me1ohd -e World Bank Ata.. (1977-79 hostel); 1960,                       atM medlani on..tee   e t_pertnoal  staffed by a physitat- (has bya
1970,oand 1979 dan.-diral aei-ot, eate, edldufe,  r.-)  hiob offer in-patdeeeaeemI
datine end  r-ode a lirited range of aedioal f-nillitis.  P.. tstnie-
ENtRil CONSUMP0TION yER iAPIOTA - dAoo-l ot-t...yttnn ~f n-tnealo-tagy lanai                        tine1 porpos..s -bh- b-siteals itoh-de  HOtI  yrinai pallgnn-a  haspitaha,
aed Itgnite, ptroleum, e-t-a  tan tad hydra- ... a..ear-od g-h-bomo  the-                         and road  h.aioglnlo   ua  hanyitala atf e-ital ttd materity
tal'ffy) In Afilograra of coa  eqar-l-non  yeaoft.; 1960, i970, and 1979                            ___an   Sytnialled hoapIt   ace   nolded only nader easel.
data.                                                                                           Adm"i...ne one Htepitel Bed - Total nuber at  dminei... te  - diseb-g-s
fang h.spitelt divided by the vanher af beda.
POPtLATION eAN  01T1 Sf.nTSTIti
nTelI Pepalotin,Mdta   ahtnd)- As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 19ff                            HofOshNc
fnaI.                                                                                        Are...   SIen  tonanul~,;d (opnson tea hoo-nbldf- note, aran  ed a-
irhbn Pua            -- pecn  of aurl) - Rtit  at  -bh- to tota  paynlaniun;                      A hanEhaldV .. nniats  fsgru f         ld_loaaIbae  oing  ueer
ditferen.t duftoltioe. of  ...bse    . te onmy aftfat  -p-braility at dune                      eel their  oo  em    A boarder  rldger may ar nay se  he iteudad Is
aeaaoteie   1960, 1971, and 1979 data,                                                    the haunebhld S tua lt lfufns
Puoulutlon froj-usbonaAseg   _uske  af..n...oesya-om  toal                                                                                       .h, nd ntalI - Av-esge  e
fupoltionit far 1000 - Current paynlanlas p-a7etlnas ear hose  on 1980                    her of fernoes Per rantSn lljuban, aed rural  onPi"f aetenItte
toad  populacl.  by age nod urn and theta notaiy ad tiiatyrer                                 dt  -sga -rsynir-y.  InIlagneIaladeutpeeseteIesre   s
fjetoa yamte.. t   enoty rtes nasyrta  of alter level  assne-                            -nn-pied Pares.
lag litfi  et  tc   nhattcesu  nich  n tynPer atpi-t monshoes  t  el-ariatey for-an-t ofdanitnf     tal   aer   n  ra 
level, an-I ml  lif        p-oec-ny  -tbtiniai.g at ~77.5.year.  The fate-                    C'noteinn..l d-11isoeu~ithbeIettrinity it ljivig  _atateta  peertag
ttrfoteritY rot  alto hae chatI  level   issni  deaianI in                             total,  rhan, tad aural d-liegsrsettey
inattlltyocuding en loa-se leve  and pose family plauatig perfure_sng.
-h c..niry is thee  -nsge-d as  at thes   ientialn   f mnsip                             IOAIf
ead  eraiory orend  for nalenoI    fryee.Adjusted  nEo-l-meantaidn
Snttaoypouaia             n  btinr  ppltieaethaa  greeh stnt                                   alIay sheal - tutol, tale sad femal  - I..s  total, male ted feml
male  nonneatn  Thati    beedol  after fertilitY -eutnedenlina se                              primaY-ethua-as1 avlena  ntmly  ne -dsotilde- age h-l
the relarsn  mr   funtaereedntn   et,ae   ea   esrsn                                             eashg ejse  fur d-iffrn  legh   tptlmdny eh!dunaIang  9r
uf  aun  nelace tnel  mody. TheataOasro  upuacin sns  ueannnalsmib nlvesaledtatia etaimengso  easedlitparea
eaiu   ol the basin of the projenand corietsin    t             Itepplte                   in   esppasoeblno   hr   h    intl a helae
inthe Year 7000  and cheeses of d_nIise at  _tettjl  y rt   ne  la-Onnaynhu      aa,ml   n   eae-Cs                                                    scue   enfr
_tt J_ta                                                         t level.                    rS-doatiye-hqa-t-sa   leas  fear perf           fepne-riaytsr is
Year   h-atonay po2n1ci- in reached - The yea  then  tatio...ny pupalatla                         avfa   esrl.aatna.a   ete  staiing iatrutas9e   aO
s...its ban beenI ...ted.nllY of 12 en 17 yeasofes;ctbtteneueeetres  t  gener l.ip
fonaunio9flteOtyteltdd
Pers     96ha.   ,ad-yurpoplaio  peIqushlmea  10hnen)o                                   Pen  1ns   -arile-  (n-reen  at sen-day)- Tesitl ntigatinm
natal. earn  190   90ad11   oa                                                                    tld   ebia,lfsro,nther peuem  shieD spe.tar  lsdapsed
Pea s. ha.agrinlsarl land - Caspurd as  bhuo  fan againol-ua  ln                             nyIta  depart, metsofs- anee  issruita
ugy;16 1970 a-d 197t dasa                                                                   Pui-scbnal   rese ..ad seohueP-Totlsase anldi
64 alatn  Astntetr   argee     Oldnnf0-in years S. nurbg-age (15-                                  petmary end s...ndery Ilevls divided hyte-bItI .t_teemts is the
61yer),ad a9enirad (ho yenta and ave) at4eroYcTee  f md-yarpop-                             arre-a1ingdevLs
lanno  aSk       1900, and  197   dta.                .  --   f   dy.   ..                      Adult liter-r ay    fees)-Literat  dfolts (blseratdwi)
.parolsala  -rnth RttfrenS- 1nu  -Adenu1 grunt hastes at ntal sid-                                  Ieap-enentge at steal adal  pepulstine eged iS yast  a dsyc
year papolatiena for 195.-hO, 190-7 0, and 1907-79.                                                                                        I
funana -hnth Bans f-a...ut) - _rha- Ane-1 grocab rtse  ft -ab- papa-                   CONSUMIfPTION
latlass foe 1950-60, 1961fI   e   90-7     9. .dPassense- Care fpeebhn.....d pupalatine)  - Passsger ease aeptiar mater
Crude BithROat  torh...noAdl - &ontua   Ive biatha Per thb..s..d at eid-yeaarsatn  Iles  that light p-....t; secu.desabaane   hears. and
CPayn1atina; 1960, 1970, oaf 1979 dan-mltr   sils
leDs-eah Boef-     ochnna)- P-a   enh   eaanaadua  sdyerRai   ecie>   pe   bessdrAneOa--l   ypeatenevesfe  ai
GtPpaynletio; 1960.  90   n  17   ot                                                           broadcast  ens..    eel Jbli  pe  tbunsetd.aty              f.. peoein   aLademf. a-d
hertasa  r   Radniveprot     f  h      eiecspees  g-p-ti   e-te A-"''t' in effete;  date.fa                                        ...ee d yer  mp.p net   -eemtebd ss
tilyrse;anly tar-year a-eoge  ending In 1960, 1970, sed 1979.                          asrntitoaehfiesig
family  lannin-Annepnaa, Anual (hoasAp    -hanl  ume       IoferpsrsT Bef-vrsfre t;dtft shnaiarltian)-t -                               Y T  t reeier  ta    edosrt
tee   of" chl-b s ptrin  Agefl-Sl year) u.a.d  ass    l hia _-ne_a  dele   nNefae   iraetsfeteesn  eeltn)-  bs                                                 aeaett
toobimarried h,oern So seer  _ge ga   I.   oafti..at"dilyg.nraIisfres  ewsspe,defnedasspeiednt
pulistenaeaed pamail  sErsuda   eerlsa.IEi   emdt
Inden atPoed - rduins perCaie  5199-  _0    Indth  at dprcpitn anCInem ...oa  Atedance pet Caiape   er-edasSenabr
Pea npina  upplyus noerienfeernna _a teni dmnts  - tapa,tedt. _ ttrum                 erred tenant  ten ,P-,.yrd hut : ennidin   hussene,kadse,C
stingy equvoirse of  et toed suplies avaIbld nnafy  e  nain                                                      PieigptoaintOalee. gediis   toe-u   eere   r
(                         aed see-t..P-    d  dnaihtin  ati- p -uaighn, and a_6ea 9g 00 percet9fa dtast   at            tef Lnbate-nity h aste  ed: 3-5Easperneage u _ intllbt   ere   9
householdqlevl; 1961-65,  976. and 1977dafa.                                                  1970_sd  1979 . dt...p
set.suppy. o   udprfy    e   upyo   edi   eis   sess    t                                     annivity ra .tes see ou.tde  tti   ae  adfml   artrsa
ellonone afhI grms attotalPriotipe  day te.pd.20ti_ Ps et anmlad160t                         90   n  19070 fate.Thes  ens9 hosed an lIt's p             ttrieien It5s
pet  paer,o bla -lligamo shel  beaimlpesi.    hst                  eed                  tfeeie  ae-etitnone to thedi. p               hp -.-in,and len  tis   .trn.  A
Buald fond Survey; 196-65  197  nsf 1977dat.    ..nfebe rsteal laborfarce
Pe hapt  pa1thinnaylJ fot   aimlg edBaer-_euei  supplyf-of fund de-
riel   rty    rsl   n  palate          .. in gnnepu _dy   96-_,  1970 sad197  dssi .     Bti:fhIBTRIttI..tO0           fttl   --   --    90   90  .   99d
Chld feats 1if tsetsall  Rte pee etui ead  - anua  de ie ht pe  gheosufdi Pe tnss  ofPiaeBnm   hthi   ahadhn)-Ie rfb   ibm
age . holdn ,1- J years ,, i   ..ls  Is   d hin 1-sin gr   u  te   fevlpn   Itat                peneP  ri...tes   0beane.          une2  per-est, an  pefrrt    prcn
trie  fate dented fans lae  ale;100  17lad199daata uneais
h   tOe  Pl  - inenoav d D -t (lyears)   - ,l Avrg  nube.t  ersod lf  reaiin9Te  ule                    -n eimtreaevr   prniaeesue   f  oet   ee
anhrs;100  17 t     etf   1979 faot e,-                                                      oafblihsnbydSDheI interpre ted  i- tausaderelenandif.-j        .tt,t.
Inac-oraltfBreIta- fhoed -..           daotoalP deasb  oftid Bfenr  under ace  tor.asmted  b ee  Poet    AcuTlee    BNye   tBis  -ahsje  ma
Adntss  BaeWae   prne th        paoanuf- IIt   taoe,uderl     e-Bt-ftininn Ill  aeute  fin    tlua essnniltio un-fed I    teqitemrtas  e
bee atpepl  (toal   __hgn and  tah) -rith prtetb   tassio-atIIfaaA
rarer eupl~' (Onoudes treted tattos caret  or . durr yened baa   'h.asnoThistmad  IIeltivfe Pur ts ..a.  evl  B9  etInI                          -ara  td  ere 
fu  itai  artsyaelcae2otmt-ta   00nnc ~ -l   t-    . ~ .   ,tra      at   a   epsssllnm   tth   ttt                               rs  level i  derve  fans        d  tts  a
nasfend as -1 beIng      l  iiba   attna - aces  ef, than 5 b 'Plc In rura  dra             eedit:dutat  a   ihratea   Olginubaes
orthousaM   --' d-hl  -t th ....td           and itte-l -fetra          epoosi          h (urba  ted d enol  nba l. are "a is h.t
dn   n.. have e  spend at dhildrationaIceh. port  ofP the day in teething  the                  poor"b.
LifnEgpaea....eet BinthnYe_al  -as     -rine at paulatof-cyas. oaaf l   sf.  curlti -RT   ARE  GI
Balt1her a   60 peopl  f -nel  u1979  tdl tr-    evdb  mre    ipsla
lea instelletiote.                                                                                                                  Boy~~~~~-1   .dr  ..Yr  d   ..db.II   Z- P9D
fepulasia  put ebyanas     d)--op Ais ..e diI ded  oy nunh f at    ci-lg pysi
casqaIfe   frdolia mbiatth taboohea  siritii--evel
of nultiancr Semiie 'etsdn-ferula-aa fiattd by-nuser of                                                                                    (USsican
tal  and- feaegeda     Peer. preatiwal gutere  end assisant srest



-22 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - LIBERIA
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1979                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% 1971 CONSTANT PRICES)-/
US$ Mln.       2                                 1974-78              1979
GDP at Market Prices              890.0       100.0                                 1.6                 4.8
Gross Domestic Investment         218.6        24.6                                11.5                20.5
Gross Domestic Saving               ..         12.6
Current Account Balance         -113.2         12.7
Exports of Goods, NFS            551.6         61.9                                -7.5                -1.3
Imports of Goods, NFS            536.6        60.2                                  4.8               -11.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added                         Labor Force-/                V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                                '000     X                    USS        X
Agricultuye                       328.0        35.0                    324.8   47.5                   1009.8    73.4
Industry-                        217.0        23.0                      39.6    5.8                  5480.0   398.8
Services                         395.0        42.0                      73.5   10.7                  5374.0   391.1
Unallocated                                                            246.1   36.0                  _       _
Total/Average               940.0       100.0                    684.0  100.0                   1374.2   100.0
GOVERN5IENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
Mln.)            % of GDP                  (US$ Mln.)               %of GDP
197        197     196 - 7               1980-814/          1980-815/  _i76-8056
Current Receipts                    ..         ..         ..                 220.0               20.8         20.4
Current Expenditures                ..        ..          ..                 220.5               20.8         15.4
Current Surplus                     ..         ..         ..                  -0.5                 ..          3.5
Capital Expenditure                 ..         ..         ..                 126.0               12.0         12.8
External Assistance (net)           ..         ..         ..                  45.0                4.3          6.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974           1975           1976            1977           1978           1979
(Million US$    Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                   .
Bank Credit to Public Sector           4.0            2.2             0.9            4.7            9.4           61.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector         72.7           76.8           83.1           109.2          132.1          146.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    .                  .
General Price Index (1963 - 100)3/
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                   19.5           13.6             6.0            5.8            8.6            11.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector           ..           -45.0          -59.1           422.2          100.0          656.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector          ..             5.6            8.2            31.4           20.9           10.7
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  'UNallocated" consists mainly of
unermployed workers seeking their first job.
"   Over 80 percent is accounted for by iron ore.
Consumer Price Index (September, November 1964 - 100).
.  1980-81 budget estimates.
5/ GDP estimates for 1979 are preliminary and subject to change.
F/ Fiscal years 1976 to 1980
Not applicable.
Not available.
June 1981



ANNEX I
-23 -                         Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-80)
1977     1978      1979                                           US$ Mln.        2
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS           458.0    500.1    551.6          Iron Ore                          291.3         53.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          -490.1   -535.6    566.7          Rubber                             86.4         15.9
Resource Gap (deficit - -)      -32.1    -44.5    -35.5          Diamonds                           34.5          6.4
Logs or Lumber                     62.0         11.4
Interest Payments (net)          -6.7    -10.8    -22.0          Coffee                             28.5          5.2
Workers' Remittances            -27.5    -32.5    -35.0          Palm Products                        3.0         0.5
Other Factor Payments (net)    -68.0    -92.8    -78.8           Cocoa                              12.0          2.2
Net Transfers                    30.8      32.2      37.7        All Other Cosmodities              23.5          4.4
Balance on Current Account    -104.5   -139.4   -113.2                 Total                       541.2        100.0
Direct Foreign Investmentl/       8.1    -10.5    -58.4          EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1980
Net MLT Borrowing                38.3      64.5    123.6
Disbursements                  50.0      78.7    178.0                                                UrS$ Mln.
Amortization                  -13.7    -14.2    -54.4
Sub-Total                  -19.8    -54.0      65.2         Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed           533.3
Capital Grants                     ..       ..        ..         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 -          -
Other Capital (net)             -35.3      79.6       ..         Total Outstanding and Disbursed          533.3
Other Items n.e.i.               51.1       .          .2/
Increase in Reserves (+)          4.0      25.1    -48.0         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-
Gross Reserves (end year)          ..       ..        ..                                                    %
Net Reserves (end year)
Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed            7.9
Fr-' and Related Materials                                       Non-Cuaranteed Private Debt                -
orts                                                        Total Outstanding and Disbursed          7.9
of which:  Petroleum        103.2      68.8     84.6
Exports                                                        1BRD/IDA LENDING, (JUNE 30, 1980) (MILLION US$):
of wbich: Petroleum
IBRD       IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed          53.6      18.0
Through - 1971                      Since                      Undisbursed                        66.3       25.9
US$1.00 - 1.00                      US$1.00 = 1.00             Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed   119.9         43.9
1.00 = us$                           1.00 - USS
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services
Not applicable.
Not available.
June 1981



- 24 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                            Amount (US$ Million)
Credit                                                              less cancellation
Number   Year      Borrower                Purpose            Bank      IDA /a   Undisbursed
Eight loans and three credits fully disbursed                 28.47    10.96
1055    1974  Liberian Bank for         Second Development
Dev. and Investment    Finance                 4.0                   0.04
577    1975  Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                       6.0         0.65
1156    1975  Rep. of Liberia          Third Road             27.5                   1.32
1266T   1976  Rep. of Liberia           Second Education       4.0                   0.38
1323    1976  Liberian Bank for        Third Development
Deve. and Investment   Finance                 7.0                   3.54
1417    1977  Rep. of Liberia          Education               6.3                   1.82
700    1977  Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                       7.0         2.73
786    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development                6.0         4.26
839    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Forestry                          6.0         4.33
Development
859    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Monrovia Water                    8.0         3.22
Supply
1544    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development    7.0                     7.00
1573    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Fourth Highway         13.8                   0.36
1600    1978  Liberian Electric        Fourth Power           10.0                   0.16
Corporation
1644    1979  Rep. of Liberia          Feeder Roads           10.7                   8.43
1765    1979  Rep. of Liberia          Decoris Oil Palm       12.0                  11.29
1076    1980  Rep. of Liberia          Small & Med.-Scale
Enterprises            -        4.0         3.20
1907    1980  Rep. of Liberia          Petroleum Explo.        5.0        -          0.71
2080/81 1981  Rep. of Liberia/NIOC   Mining                   20.0                  20.0
Total                                         155.77    47.86        73.44
of which has been repaid                     16.16       -
Total now outstanding                         139.61    47.86
Amounts sold                           0.41
of which repaid                     0.41      0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                    139.61    47.86
Total undisbursed                              55.04    18.40        73.44
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1982)
Fiscal
Year      Obligator           Type of Busienss        Loan     Equity      Total
1966     Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and       Finance Company
Investment                                             0.250      0.250
1977     Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and       Finance Company
Investment                                             0.306      0.306
0.556      0.556
Less Sold                                              0.001      0.001
Now Held by IFC                                        0.555      0.555



- 26 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(Status as of December 31, 1981)
Loan No. 1266T-LBR    Second Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Third Window
Loan of June 7, 1976;. Effective Date: July 8, 1976;
Closing Date: August 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is nearing completion after
delays due to shortages of construction materials and unusually long rainy
seasons. The extension of a teacher training institute was completed on
schedule and within appraisal cost estimates. Eighty-five of the one hundred
planned primary school units have been completed. The technical assistance
program has been completed and most of the fellowships have been awarded. The
only major activity which is outstanding is the educational publications
component. The overall project is expected to be completed in mid 1982, about
two years behind the original target date.
Loan No. 1417-LBR   Third Education Project:  US$6.3 Million Loan of
May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, project implementation is about two years behind schedule
due to poor contractor performance, site changes, and delays in placing
fellows. The Vocational Training Center/Agricultural and Industrial Training
Board, the Forestry Training Institute and three of the four Science and Tech-
nology Centers should begin operation soon. The construction of the fourth
Science and Technology Center will begin soon. The technical assistance
program is being implemented as planned. The fellowship program for the
Vocational Training Center is being implemented satisfactorily but the
remainder of the fellowship program is about two years behind schedule. The
project is expected to be completed about two years behind the original
completion date but close to appraisal cost estimates.
Credit No. 577-LBR    Agricultural Development (Lofa) Project:  US$6 Million
Credit of August 1, 1975; Effective Date: May 26. 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project performance continues to be satisfactory in swamp and
upland rice development with 98 percent and 93 percent of their respective
targets to date achieved. About 78 percent of the cocoa targets and 50 per-
cent of coffee targets were met. The main reason for these shortfalls were
the temporary disturbances in field operations in May and June 1980 following
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4
the 1980 change of government and shortage of planting materials. The
performance of the completely Liberianised Senior Staff continues to be
satisfactory although the Cooperative and Agricultural field staff needs
strengthening.
Credit No. 700-LBR    Agricultural Development (Bong) Project:  US$7 Million
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: March 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project performance continues to be satisfactory. About 100 percent
of upland rice targets, 13 percent of swamp rice targets, 100 percent of cocoa
targets and 85 percent of coffee targets, have been achieved. The project
continues to face difficulties in getting farmers to develop swamp rice.
Project management is adjusting to recent staff changes.
Credit No. 786/        Rubber Development Project:  US$7 Million Loan and
Loan No. 1544-LBR      US$6 Million Credit, both of April 21, 1978;
Effective Date: October 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
After a number of initial management difficulties, satisfactory
progress is now being made. However, improving smallholders involvement
in the full range of rubber activities is progressing slowly. A new Training
Officer is being appointed and training of staff, farmers and tappers should
soon commence. The Bank is considering amendments to the project scope
and design, to include processing facilities and marketing services which
should make it possible to offer smallholders a higher price for their output.
These changes are expected to improve farmer response to the project.
Credit No. 839-LBR    Forestry Project:  US$6 Million Credit of July 28, 1978;
Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
There has been a perceptible improvement in staff morale since
the new Managing Director was appointed. Progress is being made in the
building program and the development of the trial industrial plantation site.
The reduced effectiveness of the Forest Development Authority and of the
Ministry of Finance in collecting forest taxes has resulted in considerable
arrears from concessions. This has limited the Authority's role in the sector
and the plantation program has also suffered. Planting is now expected to
reach only 63 percent of appraisal targets. The fellowship and training
program is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 28 -                           ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1765-LBR
Special Action Credit No. 35-LBR
Decoris Oil Palm Project: US$12.0 Million Loan and
US$2.0 Million EEC Credit, both of December 21, 1979:
Effective Date: February 23, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project performance is satisfactory, and land development is almost
on target with some 1225 ha of nucleus and smallholders land cleared. Pro-
cedures for compensating farmers for land obtained for the nucleus estate are
being developed. Although funding is at times difficult, Project Management
continues to make reasonably good progress.
Loan No. 1156-LBR   Third Highway Project:  US$27.5 Million Loan of
August 28, 1975; Effective Date: October 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The construction of a major bridge and an urban main road (5.4 m)
in Monrovia was completed in 1979, and the main trunk road (83 m) was substan-
tially completed in May 1981 after delays due to bad weather, difficulties in
the supply of materials and disturbances associated with the change of govern-
ment in 1980. The feasibility studies of about 98 miles of main roads and an
urban transport study of Monrovia have been completed. The Lofa County Feeder
Road Unit, which became operational in January 1977, has been transferred to
the Feeder Road Project (1664-LBR) after completion of the three-year construc-
tion program. Technical assistance in developing the Planning and Programming
Division of the Ministry of Public Works has been reasonably effective.
Loan 1573-LBR        Fourth Highway Project:  US$13.8 Million Loan of
June 2, 1978; Effective Date: September 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project includes reconstruction and improvement of the Pay-
nesville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfield road, road maintenance, technical
assistance and preinvestment studies. Reconstruction of the Paynesville-
Robertsfield road, financed by the Kuwait Fund, was completed in October 1980.
Rehabilitation of the Paynesville-Totota road was resumed in September 1980
after disruptions caused by the change of government, and is now about 65 per-
cent completed. Detailed engineering of the Ganta-Sanniquellie and Ganta-Tapeta
roads, delayed temporarily, was substantially completed in December 1980. Due
to a shortage of funds and changes in government personnel assigned to mainte-
nance operations, technical assistance for maintenance has not been effective.
During the last six months of their contract, the road maintenance advisory
team assisted the Ministry of Public Works to prepare a study for a follow-up
maintenance project. A project cost overrun of about US$9.5 million is now
expected as a consequence of implementation delays and higher than expected
construction costs due to faster deterioration than foreseen at appraisal
of the Paynesville-Totota road; the Government is exploring other sources of
funding to complete the works.



- 29 -                           ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 1664-LBR   Feeder Roads Project:  US$10.7 Million Loan of
April 4, 1979: Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides for the construction or improvement and main-
tenance of about 700 miles of feeder roads and for the maintenance of a
further 200 miles of feeder roads. The work is being undertaken by three
brigades operated by the Ministry of Public Works. While some of the equip-
ment has been delivered, the project has been adversely affected by the
unsettled situation since the 1980 change of government and, more recently,
by a shortage of counterpart resources.
Loan No. 1055-LBR   Second Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$4 Million Loan of December 3, 1974; Effective
Date: January 3, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980; and
Loan No. 1323-LBR   Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effective
Date: December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Loan 1055-LBR is fully committed. Commitment of Loan 1323-LBR has
been slower than anticipated (50 percent of the loan has been committed) owing
to depressed economic activity in Liberia and a downturn in business invest-
ment. Following the 1980 political changes and subsequent general economic
difficulties, the quality of LBDI's portfolio and its financial position have
deteriorated considerably. LBDI is now concentrating its efforts on project
follow-up and loan recovery.
Loan No. 1076-LBR   Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$4 million Credit of January 9, 1981;
Effective Date: September 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit effectiveness and initial project implementation have been
delayed by weak management in the implementing agency (NIC). The consultant
study on industrial incentives and revision of the investment code is underway.
The first of three technical experts will join NIC soon. Minor disbursements
have been made for technical assistance only.
Loan No. 1600-LBR   Fourth Power Project:  US$10.0 Million Loan of
July 7, 1978; Effective Date: December 11, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of thermal generating facilities
by 26 MW to meet demand up to 1985, power distribution to urban poor, rural
transmission studies and technical assistance for management and training.
Construction of the power plant has been completed, and the two diesel units
are in operation. LEC's financial performance has been severely affected by



- 30 -                           ANNEX II
Page 7
low operating efficiency. A five-man management support team started work at
LEC in July 1978 as a part of the Management Improvement Program instituted
under this loan. Progress of this team has been satisfactory but loan funds
for this component were exhausted in June 1981. LEC is funding a one year
extension from meager resources; additional funding is needed to keep the team
in place after June 1982.
Credit No. 859-LBR        Water Supply Project:  US$8 Million Credit of
January 8, 1979; Effective Date: April 2, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project costs have escalated from $16.1 million at appraisal to
$23.2 million. The Government successfully approached the Finnish Aid Agency
(FINIDA) for funds to finance the local component. Construction works are now
progressing according to plan, except for the raw water intake and pipeline
which are pending resolution of a LEC claim for compensation. The installa-
tion of standpipes in Monrovia's urban poor quarters has been completed.
Unaccounted-for water remains at a high level, almost 50%. Serious revenue
shortfalls continue to plague LWSC but billing and collection are slowly
improving. Government funding of LWSC remains irregular and Government has
been requested to introduce new funding arrangements based on LWSC's actual
cash needs. The Management Improvement and Technical Assistance Program has
not yielded expected results due to changes in top management, shortages in
counterpart funds and financial constraints. The German Government is funding
a continuation of the program through GTZ.
Loan No. 1907-LBR         Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; US$5.0
Million Loan of November 21, 1980; Effective Date:
January 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project seeks to promote Liberia's offshore petroleum potential
by financing a seismic survey; processing, interpreting and integrating seis-
mic data; consulting services for the promotion, auction and negotiation of
new exploration permits and technical assistance to the Bureau of Hydrocarbons
and for energy planning. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
The seismic survey was initiated on March 4, 1981 and has now been completed.
Availability of counterpart financing may constitute a problem in the future
for the implementation of the project.
Loans 2080/2081-LBR       NIOC Iron Ore Rehabilitation Project:  US$ 20
Million Loans of February 26, 1982;
Effective Date: March 18, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
All cofinanciers have made their loans effective and project
execution has been initiated.



- 31 -                           ANNEX III
LIBERIA
SECOND LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 5 months
(b) Agency which prepared project: Ministry of Agriculture with IDA
assistance
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:  November 1979
(d)  Date of appraisal mission:  May/June 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  January 22, 1982
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  August, 1982
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
Deposit of SDR 170,000 from the proposed Credit in the Special
Account (para. 46).
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  The Government would prepare a plan of action satisfactory to IDA to
improve the operations of cooperatives and thereafter carry out such
a plan; results would be reviewed jointly (para 37);
(b)  The Government to consider farm inputs procured under the project
and distributed through the cooperatives as its equity contribution
to ACDB, and ACDB, in turn, would invest similar amounts in the
equities of the cooperatives. Credit to farmers to be provided at
specified interest rates and repayment terms (para. 38);
(c)  The Government to carry out a plan of action to improve the opera-
tions of LPMC (para. 39);
(d)  The appointment of special advisers to the project unit and the
management positions in the project unit, to be acceptable to IDA
(para. 43);
(e)  The Government would review with IDA proposals for changing the
administrative structure of the Ministry of Agriculture in the
project area and would ensure that such staff is employed effi-
ciently (para 43); and
(f)  Project accounts to be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA with a separate opinion on the Special Account
and statement of expenditure records (para. 50).






IBRO 1555I0
,                                                              I                                                 NOVEMBER 1981
J   ~~r'    ,'<"Uv;                                          LIBEU RIA
-~=rICA-                             /,n                    XLOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL
\ A RISER I   C  A   - /\                                                  ~   , vI)->EVELOPMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
* ~     ~      ~       -  Vah     .                          ,''  " ,Sok-v n o
x, ~~  ,                 <YLQF,A                 -         X {f.tWW
-      L O  F,At                                  G   V- I -N    E  A           
-~~~A 
SIERRA            / f0k00CN."'
5. I E R R ,An,,,,- 7 , Y// . ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                 i         rdff.rE^
L E 0" N  Ire         -  -G R A N D  2                                         tg2  Y                     ;/ SAN /U                     .W B.* I, wc dc *ftc.
. v S .-oC A P E                                         Z-/ 2 ' ,' 3eefu: 9i 9 Gtatv'stomc C h _                        oa
) aO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U  N  T  -- ,f- yG oe8
Gbgjgbg<C4Xt t4_!4y   W o n g   \   ,p:  g y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |   ;_Tppec  G        O*  on    I.to  o
p-/ S                                                                                                                                                       OPOUdN9  ,, 90I } /,
.4                   iOCchOI    -' ~ .     ol  C       isC ts)NTYl1XI\ <WDL&C;   
Obctgbon'            C  o                          /-I  Yf                              E        @/              ~             to 
LFCUTAGRICULTURAL                 09              KC                          S        GJR   A  N  D          -/GEE  D  E  rf\J3'
PROJECT HEADOUARTERSK b;                                       -R-^       (                  '    /1\    
C.ARl  CENTRAL AGRiCULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE    t\          .O    ~/    /           J                           
-        PAVED ROADS 
LOOSE SURFACE ROADS              .                -+       oa'/'\t1
ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                      
RAILWAYS                                                                                                                 C 0  A S T
*+   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                                         ,s , '. / ) tS j t6,   N  T  Y
4s   AIRFIELDS AND STRIPS                                                   J                                 /      j             / <f
SOO          ; ~~~K'   MAJOR PORTrS                                          |      REVLE=oKc)ueI                                  <\>tSf
6'00                 INRPOT                                                  j-  50
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                    - '                                      y/ ,  t/o 
LF    COUNTY CAPITALS                                           N
DEVEL COUNTY P   OUND ARIE S   B                                                                       \7</Z            C  J 1 N4
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAiRIES                                        2      20    40       62                                  ict,~ _B 
=~~  -- RIVERS AND CREEKS                                              KIEoMeECER   22    5PdCssT                                   Iee
MPLES                                             h rO I 
CI0 I0' 00C EN00'                                                                                                      9-U 00C     H A RP



