Document of
The World Bank-.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3677-LBR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
April 5, 1982
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division 4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE Ii
Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = United States Dollars
Weights and Measures
1 metric ton           0.98 long ton
1 long ton         =   2,240 lb - 1,016 metric ton
1 hectare (ha)         2.47 acres
1 acre             =   0.405 hectare
1 kilometer (km)  =   0.62 mile
1 mile                 1.609 kilometer
Abbreviations
ACDB    -   Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
ADF     -   African Development Fund
ADP     -   Agricultural Development Project
AEA     -   Agricultural Extension Aide
CAO     -   County Agricultural Officer
CARI    -   Central Agricultural Research Institute
CCA     -   Cooperative Credit Assistant
CDA     -   Cooperative Development Agency
CMEU    -   Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
CS      -   Cooperative Society
CSD     -   Commercial Services Division
DCC     -   District Cooperative Committee
EO      -   Extension Officer
FRU     -   Feeder Roads Unit
GOL     -   Government of Liberia
IFAD    -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCCC    -   Liberia Cocoa and Coffee Corporation
LPMC    -   Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation
LPPC    -   Liberia Palm Products Corporation
M & E   -   Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MOA     -   Ministry of Agriculture
MPE     -   Ministry of Public Works
SEA     -   Senior Extension Aide
SSU     -   Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit
TCU     -   Town Cooperative Unit
WARDA   -  West Africa Rice Development Association
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



LIBERIA                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  .... ................          ................    1
Background   ...............................   ..I'.  ...............      1
Agricultural Sector Characteristics                  ..                    2
Agricultural Sector Development Objectives                    .            2
Strategy and Constraints   .       .......................  .... .......    .  2
Bank Group Lending ................. ........ .4 ....... . .               3
Agricultural Institutions and Services           .       .                 4
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ............................  ... .. . ... .               6
Location and General Characteristics                                       6
Roads and Communication. ... .                                   ..    6
Farming Systems ... . ... . . .... .                                       6
Rural Services.                   .      ............. ..........          7
The Phase I Project ... . .....                                     .      7
III. THE PROJECT   .                ........10
General                        ....10
Summary Description ...        .       .........................          10
Detailed Features.......... ..11
Cost Estimates ..........  ..............                                 14
Proposed Financing                  . . .16
Procurement.        ..... .....       .       ....... .16
Budgeting, Accounts and Audit                           .                 19
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT                   .20
Project Organization        ......... ... . ...o .20
Farmers Participation              ..20
Staffing...                                         ...                   21
Extension Services                    ....... . ...   21
Training.....    22
Plant Production and Research                 .....                       22
Cooperative Development                  .. . .....23
Land Planning, Roads ...................... ......... oo-o .....    27
Schistosomiasis ...      ..       ................. ............          28
Monitoring and Evaluation  o ..... .  .......      .     ....... ...    28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Drayton, Headworth, and Ms. Mackrandilal (IDA), and Messrs. Hodgkinson,
Persson and Duris (Consultants), which visited Liberia in June 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.     PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS   ....................          .. . .  29
VI.    DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..........    33
Demand ...................................    33
Marketing ..................................    34
Prices ............... ...       .........**      .*.. .... .    34
Financial Returns to Farmers ......      .........................  35
Financial Implications for Government          ......................   37
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......................... .. ......   37
Overall Benefits .......... . *    ............ . ..*............    37
Economic Rate of Return .... ... ...   ............. ...   .........    38
Risks and Sensivity .                                             39
VIII.  AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .   ................    40
Tables in Text
Table 1    Crop Development and Improvement - Phase 1
Table 2    Summary of Project Costs
Table 3    Project Financing
Table 4    Crop Yield Assumptions
Table 5    Farmgate Prices
Table 6    Farm Incomes
Annexes
Annex 1    Detailed Project Costs
Annex 2    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 3    Project Crop Area Development
Annex 4    Incremental Crop Production
Annex 5    Table 1-Crop  Budgets per ha at Full Development
Table 2-Farm Models
Annex 6    Government Cash Flow
Annex 7    Table 1 Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 2 Economic Analysis: Internal Rate of Return;
Sensitivity Analysis
Annex 8    Project Organogram



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Background
1.01      Liberia has an area of 111,400 sq. km. of which some 6,200 sq. km.
are used for agriculture. Total population is estimated at 1.8 million, of
which 1.2 million or 70% is rural. Population growth is approximately 3.3%
per annum, with a rural rate of around 2.2% and an urban rate of about 5.8%,
due to heavy migration from rural areas and some migration from outside
Liberia. There are some 157,000 agricultural housesholds with an average size
of 5.4 persons.
1.02      Liberia has a highly dualistic economy, characterized by a tradi-
tional sector which is mainly agricultural, and a modern foreign-controlled
enclave sector which is export oriented. The traditional sector, although
employing over 70% of the total labor force, contributes less than one-fifth
of GDP. The enclave sector produces iron ore, rubber and forestry products;
it accounts for about 70% of export earnings, 30% of GDP, and 15% of all
Government revenues. Agricultural exports from both sectors account for 36%
of total exports (1980) and include rubber, forest products, coffee, cocoa and
palm products. Over the last five years, the weaknesses in the economy,
stemming from dependence on a few export commodities, and poor management,
have become evident. Real GDP grew at an annual rate of only 1.2% over
1976-1980, implying a decline in per capita income. In contrast, GDP growth
rate had averaged about 6% in the sixties, and about 4.2% between 1970 and
1974. The decline in iron ore mining and rubber exports, in the wake of
recession in the industrialized countries, was the principal factor adversely
affecting GDP growth, balance of trade and government revenues despite the
fact that the agriculture sector (including the subsistence economy) continued
to grow at an annual rate of 4.1% during this period and significant growth
also took place in the service sectors.
1.03      Budgetary deficits have been significant in recent years, reaching
$120 million in 1978/79 and $95 million in 1979/80. This was due to lower
collection of import duties, a rise in development expenditures, and heavy
outlays on the 1979 Organization of African Unity (OAU) Conference. The
1980/81 budget deficit is $97 million. A stabilization program agreed with
the IMF is currently underway, and is expected to ease budgetary and liquidity
problems.
1.04      Income distribution in Liberia is highly skewed.  Average GNP
in 1979 is estimated at US$500. However, the enclave sector yields a per
capita GNP of about $1,620 compared to $780 for the rest of the monetized
economy, and the great majority of the population who live in the traditional
non-monetized sector have a per capita income of less than $185 per annum.
About 62% of private income is claimed by the top 5% of households, and only
11% of private income is received by the lowest 40%'.



- 2-
B.   Agriculture Sector Characteristics
1.05      Agriculture is now the largest sector in the country contributing
about 32% to the GDP (14% monetary and 18% traditional). Three distinct types
of farming systems characterize the sector: (a) foreign-owned plantations of
rubber and forestry producing exclusively for exports; (b) Liberian-owned
commercial and state farms, engaged primarily in rubber production, but with
secondary interests in coffee, cocoa and oil palm, and gradually moving into
other activities, such as poultry and pig production; and (c) traditional
farms consisting of smallholders (90% of all agricultural households) who
produce mainly for home consumption with small surpluses sold for cash pur-
poses.  The principal cash crops are rubber, coffee and cocoa.  Annual rubber
production is currently 80,000 tons (down from 85,000 tons in the mid 1970s),
of which 70% is produced by six foreign concessions. Coffee and cocoa exports
were about 10,000 tons and 3,400 tons respectively in 1980/81. Rice and
cassava are the main crops of traditional smallholders, with annual production
of 244,000 tons (paddy) and 155,000 tons, respectively. Crop yields on
traditional farms are low. Except for those within the ADP's, farmers have
little access to capital and agricultural inputs; agricultural technology is
rudimentary and infrastructure is inadequate. Coffee and cocoa are the main
cash crops for smallholders, who also sell palm kernels from the harvested
fruit of wild oil palms. Due to unsuitable climatic conditions, absence of
natural pastures and prevalence of trypanosomiasis, livestock production is of
minor importance in traditional agriculture.
C.   Agricultural Sector Development Objectives, Strategy and Constraints:
1.06      Objectives.  The first National Socio-Economic Development Plan
(1976-80) aimed at diversification of production, geographical dispersion of
sustainable economic activities throughout the country, total invo]Lvement of
the entire population in the development effort, and equitable aistribution of
the benefits of economic growth and diversification so as to ensure an accept-
able standard of living to people throughout the country. The 1981-85 plan,
guidelines for which are now being prepared, is expected to have the same
objectives and priorities.
1.07      To achieve Plan objectives, there has been a growing emphasis on
agricultural and rural development, particularly smallholders. Allocations
for agriculture have increased from about 4% of the public sector development
budget in 1970 to about 21% in 1979/80. In the 1980/81 development: budget,
the largest sectoral allocation (30%) went to agriculture, amounting to $35.6
million. The specific goals for agriculture are: (a) diversification of the
production base and (b) improvements in the institutional structure.
1.08      Strategy.  The main thrust of the sectoral strategy is to raise
income level productivity and living conditions of small farmers through
provision of improved inputs and technology in rice, some livestock and tree
crop cultivation, and basic infrastructure. The land-use policy is to encour-
age farmers to cultivate rice in the swamps and lowlands and to grow tree
crops on the uplands. This is because swamp rice carries a yield potential
two to three times that of upland rice, and, on uplands, tree crops offer a
far superior monetary return--three to four times--compared with upland



- 3 -
rice. Tree crops would also avoid the heavy labor of regular land clearing
and help to halt erosion and loss of soil fertility. However, the change from
upland rice to tree crops will take many years, and, in the meantime, the
strategy is to provide improved seed and other inputs for use by rice farmers
in order to increase productivity, in addition to encouragement of tree crop
production. The small farmer development strategy is mainly being pursued
within the framework of area-based integrated agricultural development proj-
ects (ADPs) which are designed to provide basic inirastructure, such as roads,
wells, health surveillance units, etc., inputs and a range of farm support
services for the introduction of modern technology, and the promotion of
cooperatives. So far, three such projects are in operation. Additionally,
Government is pursuing: (a) the decentralization of its agricultural services
and improvement of the administration of agricultural programs; and (b)
development and improvement of agricultural research, extension ar.d training.
1.09      Constraints.  Though some of the above strategies have begun to
make an impact, there are still severe constraints on agricultural development,
the most notable of which are a shortage of budgetary allocations, and Govern-
ment's inability to provide ongoing analysis of these strategies, particularly
in their economic and institutional aspects. Also, Government has not fully
explored such other possible avenues for sector development as crop pricing
incentives, the linkage between rural roads and farming improvements, research
into the introduction of labor-saving techniques in the farming systems, and
the promotion of other staples such as cassava to supplement rice. There
is a shortage of qualified and experienced agricultural officers and crop
specialists, and the existing lower level extension staff are inadequately
trained, ill-equipped and poorly supervised. This situation would impede the
decentralization process (Government has deferred the national decentralization
program which was being prepared under the previous Government). Shortage of
crops storage and marketing facilities, transport, available inputs, agricul-
tural support services, and poorly developed farmers' organizations, such as
cooperatives, also prevail. Although international and bilateral agencies
participate in the sector development, there is need for a formal mechanism
for coordinating their activities.
D.   Bank Group Lending
1.10      Bank Group lending in the sector supports Government's objectives
towards increased smallholder participation. The Bank's first project (1972)
(Credit 306-LBR for US$1.6 million) consisted of a pilot rubber development
study and technical assistance, which led to Bank investment in the Lofa
County Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 577-LBR for US$6 million), the
Bong County Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 700-LBR for US$7 million),
the Rubber Development Project (Cr. 786-LBR for US$13 million/Ln. 1544-LBR).
A Forestry Development Project (Cr. 839-LBR for US$6 million) and an Oil Palm
Project (Ln. 1765-LBR for US$12 million) have since been added. The Lofa
project which was started in 1976 is progressing satisfactorily and is due to
end in September 1981. Government has received assurance from USAID that they
will provide bridging funding for the period between project completion and
the start-up of Phase II. The Bong project, after a slow start (1978) and
initial management problems, is also being implemented satisfactorily. The
Rubber Project which became effective October 1978 aims at strengthening



Liberian-owned rubber production, but because of management problems, poor
pricing, and a shortage of processing facilities, this project is has been
revised. The Forestry Project was made effective in July 1978, ancd is
expected to strengthen forestry institutions and to increase the production
of lumber mainly for export. The performance of this project in general has
been satisfactory. The Decoris Oil Palm Project became effective in February,
1981, and is expected to establish oil palm production on smallholders plots
and a nucleus estate. In spite of considerable delays in meeting conditions
for effectiveness, and financial constraints, project implementation is
progressing reasonably well.
E.   Agricultural Institutions and Services
1.11      Ministry of Agriculture:  The Ministry is headed by a Minister
who is assisted by three Deputy Ministers, each heading a department. A
Bureau of Administration and Management is headed by an Assistant Minister,
and the holders of these latter four positions along with the Minister consti-
tute the Ministry's primary management team. MOA is the principal institution
in agriculture, and is responsible for planning and implementing agricultural
programs, and regulating specialized semi-autonomous organizations, which are
mainly involved in export crops. Although its budgetary allocations increased
five-fold between 1973 and 1979, its impact has been limited mainly for the
reasons stated in para. 1.06 above. MOA recognizes the need for major adjust-
ments in the organizations, and is in the process of effecting a decentraliza-
tion program which would strengthen its county offices. USAID is providing
assistance to MOA in its restructuring, and is currently preparing a project
for improving the extension services with technical assistance, logistics
support and training.
1.12      Agricultural Research:  Activities in agricultural research are
primarily carried out at the Central Agricultural Research Institute (CARI) at
Suakoko in Bong county. This institute is the result of a conversion of the
old Central Agricultural Experiment Station, and is a semi-autonomous organi-
zation responsible to a committee under the chairmanship of the Minister of
Agriculture. Under an agreement with Government, USAID will implement a
project with the primary objective of assisting in the establishment and
functioning of this institute. USAID will provide management staff, agricul-
tural scientists and overseas training for Liberians in agricultural research.
UNDP specialists will also assist CARI in its operations, and provide research
training for Liberian counterparts. Apart from the rice breeding program
started under the Bank-supported Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 306-LBR)
and continued with assistance provided under the Bong Project (Cr. 700-LBR),
currently there has been no effective crops research program, and the output
of research findings to date has been negligible.
1.13      Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC):  This corporation
has sole responsibility for marketing coffee, cocoa, coconut and oil palm
products, and establishing commercial production of a farmer support services
for these crops. It also imports rice and operates processing facilities for
domestic paddy. It is Government-owned, and has two subsidiaries, Liberia
Palm Products Corporation (LPPC), and Liberia Cocoa and Coffee Corporation



- 5 -
(LCCC), which run plantation and outgrowers schemes for producing oil palm and
coconuts, and cocoa and coffee. These subsidiaries have been a drain on LPMC's
reserves, are not efficiently operated, and are likely to be taken over by
MOA. The costs of the subsidy on rice from 1979 until its removal in August
1981 was financed out of the stabilization funds for coffee and cocoa and the
reserves of the LPMC. This drain on its resources, compounded by the recent
fall in the world market prices of coffee and cocoa has placed LPMC in a
financially vulnerable position. Furthermore, its operational and administra-
tive costs are '-igh, and the marketing network (including the licenced buying
agents system) is inefficient. A reorganization of the system is necessary to
ensure LPMC's viability, and reduce the margins between export prices and
farmgate prices (paras. 4.15, 6.03 and 6.04).
1.14      Agricultural Credit:  The Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank
(ACDB) which replaced MOA's Credit Division in 1978, provides short, medium
and long-term loans to both individuals and farmers' organizations, and rural
industries. It also provides facilities for the mobilization of rural savings.
ACDB has headquarters in Monrovia and field offices in Gbarnga (Bong County),
Voinjama (Lofa County) and Ganta (Nimba County). It has been unable to reach
smalholders to any significant extent, mainly because of an inadequate branch
network and inexperienced staff. Only Lofa, Bong and Nimba agricultural
projects (para. 1.17) provide credit to smallholder farmers, with the ACDB
serving as Bankers. Commercial banks lend mainly to concessions and commer-
cial farms, and this represents about 20% of the total lending in the sector.
1.15      Cooperatives:  Prior to July, 1981, a Department of Cooperatives
existed within MOA with full responsibility for cooperative activities in
the country. The Department had been poorly staffed and ill-equipped to
provide the much needed guidance and enforcement of the provisions of the
Cooperative Societies Act. As a result, cooperatives in general have been
poorly supervised. Effective from July 1, 1981, Government established a
Cooperative Development Agency (CDA) to replace the Department of Coopera-
tives. The CDA will function as an independent agency, headed by a Registrar
of Cooperatives. Currently, USAID is assisting Government in establishing
staff and providing logistics support. However, this agency would require
sustained commitment and support from Government in order to function effec-
tively.
1.16      Other Services:  Apart from the Bank financed agricultural develop-
ment projects (ADPs) of Lofa and Bong, there is a Nimba County ADP in its
pilot phase, which is funded by the Federal Republic of Germany. This project
is being implemented by a mixture of expatriate and MOA staff, and runs over a
4-year period -- 1979-1982. The International Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment (IFAD) has funded the Rice Seed Production Project, for which the Bank
has been appointed Cooperating Institution. This project will produce
improved rice seed for sale and distribution to farrmers throughout Liberia.
The project became effective November 4, 1981, and iimplementation is about to
commence.



- 6 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and General Characteristics
2.01      The proposed project area (map IBRD No. 15550) represents an exten-
sion of the Phase I area to include the entire Kolahun and Zorzor districts,
thus encompassing the whole of the Upper Lofa County. Upper Lofa c:onsists of
an area of 8,000 km2, and an estimated population of 185,000 people, of
which 90% or 166,500 are engaged in agriculture. Population density averages
about 16 persons/km2. The county is administered from the principal town,
Voinjama, by a County Superintendent, who is appointed by the Head of State.
The mean annual rainfall is 2,500 mm in the project area. There is only one
rainy season (April/May to November) during which some 90% of the total annual
rainfall occurs. The average monthly temperature varies only slightly around
240 C. (For further details on physical features and climatic conditions
see Working Paper No. 2).
Roads and Communication
2.02      An unpaved road in poor condition links the main towns in the county
to Suakoko in Bong County. This road is in a poor condition. A tarmac road
provides easy access between Suakoko and Monrovia. There are some 900 kms of
feeder roads of fair to good condition throughout the county. Most: of these
feeder roads were developed in the project area of the Phase I project. A
Ministry of Public Works' Feeder Roads Unit (FRU), under the Bank financed
Third Highway Project (Cr. 1156 LBR) and National Feeder Road Project (Cr.
1664-LBR), constructed some 200 km of feeder roads between 1977 and 1981.
Feeder roads construction has been slowed to a standstill because of Govern-
ment's recent budgetary constraints.
Farming Systems
2.03      Shifting cultivation is the prevailing farming system in the project
area. Fallow periods vary mainly as a consequence of population pressure,
ranging from 5 to 12 years. Upland rice is the main crop and is generally
sparsely intercropped with vegetables, cassava and pulses. After one harvest,
a crop of cassava or groundnuts may be grown before the land reverts to fallow.
2.04      Swamp and bottomland rice is traditionally cultivated, particularly
in the Foya and Kolahun areas. Women generally grow rice in these lowland
areas on a semi-continuous basis, abandoning them only in years where the
upland rice field is a considerable distance away. Under the Phase I project,
improved swamp rice cultivation has been successfully introduced, replacing
the traditional practice in many areas.
2.05      Cocoa and coffee are grown as smallholder cash crops.  Traditional
cultural practices are unsatisfactory, and are characterized by overshading,
lack of pruning, poor spacing and little or no maintenance. Although in
recent years farmers have shown greater interest in these tree crops for their
cash earning, many still view these crops as a means of "engaging" the land



- 7 -
under traditional custom for themselves and their children. In this case very
little attention is paid to the planted trees. Under Phase I, the project
introduced improved planting and cultivation methods for these crops.   There
is little rubber grown in Upper Lofa.
Rural Services
2.06      In the Phase I project area wells have been constructed to supply
water for household use. Where these do not exist,, villagers rely on the
numerous streams in the county for their water. Health conditions are ge-
nerally poor, and similar to those found elsewhere in Liberia. There is a
Government hospital in Voinjama, and a mission hospital in Zorzor. Addi-
tionally, there are some 30 health clinics in the project area. These
facilities are inadequate to meet the needs of the areas they serve. Malaria,
measles, dysentery and a wide range of internal and external parasites are
common sources of illnesses in the project area. Protein and other dietary
deficiencies lead to a high infant and child mortality rate. While onchocer-
ciasis is known to exist, serious infections are rare. Schistosomiasis is
more widely spread mainly because of the large number of water sources in the
county, (streams and swamps). Under Phase I, the project's Schistosomiasis
Surveillance Unit has carried out routine checks on swamps and population, and
its findings indicate that community water contact sites are a bigger source
of infection than swamps where only rice cultivation occurs. The Unit has
provided treatment for infected farmers and their families.
The Agricultural Development Project - Phase I
2.07      The Phase I project (Cr. 577-LBR) was the first major agricultural
development project in the country. It was financed by IDA, USAID and the
Government of Liberia. The project became effective in May 1976 and the
closing date has been extended by six months to June 1982. The primary
objective of the project was to increase production of smallholder rice,
cocoa, and coffee in two districts of Upper Lofa by means of an intensive
extension system with supporting services such as credit, input supply
and cooperative development. In addition, the project included feeder road
rehabilitation, well construction and the provision of some buildings. The
project has been generally successful in physical achievements, in mobilizing
farmers and motivating extension staff. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
of the Project estimates the rate of return of the project at 15% compared
with an appraisal estimate of 25.9%. Physical objectives and achievements
are summarized in Table I.



- 8 -
Table I
Crop Development and Improvement - Phase 1
Upland Rice      Swamp Rice      Coffee      Cocoa       Total
(ha)            (ha)          (ha)       (ha)      Farmers
Appraisal          5,600           1,900         2,300       1,500       8,000
Actual             5,218           1,865         1,164       1,175       7,430
Civil Works
MPW                LCADP
Road                 Road
Construction         Construction                         Training    Other
and Rehabilitation  and Rehabilitation  Wells  Latrines  Centers   Buildings
(km)                 (km)          (No.)    (No.)      (No.)      (No.)
Appraisal           600                  -             100        -          2         20
Actual              352                 372            195       73          2         25
Crop Development:
2.08      The cocoa rehabilitation program was dropped since there were not
enough trees that could be economically rehabilitated. The original upland
rice package of improved seed and fertilizer evoked very little response and
was deemphasized in favor of the more popular package of improved seed alone
(provided through seed exchange or cash sale). Although targets have been
almost achieved for the swamp rice program (98%) there have been problems in
maintaining production especially where population density has been low (see
para 5.02).
Civil Works:
2.09      Due to a shortage of operating funds the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) was unable to carry out the entire roads program. They constructed 220
km and rehabilitated 132 km. The project's roads unit, originally designed
to carry out small road maintenance for minor access tracks, was able to
construct some 230 km of roads and recondition 142 kms of roads and tracks.
The unit also constructed about 300 stream crossings associated with the road
network. At least 30% of the construction costs were contributed by the
communities in the form of voluntary labor. The wells program surpassed
appraisal targets by 95%; the latrines program was added during implementa-
tion; these programs also involved community labor amounting to about 50% of
costs. The project also constructed a farmer training center, a staff train-
ing center, a workshop, input storage sheds (10), and district and other
offices (15).



9 
Institutions:
2.10      Since there was no viable management structure capable of implement-
ing the project, a semi-autonomous project management unit responsible to
MOA was established and staff was internationally recruited for the key
positions (project manager, training officer, agricultural manager, land
planning manager and monitoring and evaluation manager). Within 3 years, full
management responsibility had been handed over to local counterparts. The
management record throughout the project period has been good. The number of
senior staff positions has grown more quickly than envisaged at appraisal to
reach a total of 26 at June 1981. Emphasis on training has been considerable,
about 465 agricultural and credit staff received in-house training while
about 8,000 farmers attended project courses. A mcdified Training and Visit
system was introduced in the project in mid 1980. A Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit was established and has been performing satisfactorily.
2.11      The project attempted to build up a viable cooperative system to
handle credit input supply and marketing of output. The cooperative structure
consists of 200 Town Cooperative Units (TCU) (averaLge membership of 20 farmers)
affiliated to five larger cooperative societies (CS). The system has been
reasonably successful in marketing (mainly as a buying agent of the export
crops on behalf of the LPMC). However, due to organizational and management
problems, they have been unable to assume responsibility for credit and input
supplies. Credit recovery was very good in the first year (averaging 95%),
however it fell to 50% in 1980/81 season due to the liquidity crisis in the
country when farmers sold their produce for cash at very low prices to
private traders since the cooperatives could not pay with cash.
2.12      Lessons of Experience and Proposed Actions:
(a) Crop Development: While the technical packages have been accepted
to a large extent in the project area, there have been problems in sustaining
farmers commitments to the improved techniques, especially in swamp rice
production where there has been a noticeable incidence of abandonment after
2 or 3 years. It is now recognized that the intensity of contact between the
extension staff and farmers has to be more gradually phased out over a longer
period than had been originally planned. Furthermore, it is necessary to
provide additional maintenance credit periodically to repair swamp development
works.
(b) Civil Works: With respect to the roads program, financing would
be provided in the next phase for the operational costs of MPW (para 3.11).
(c) Institutions: (i) The T & V system has proved to be effective;
however, assessment and appropriate modifications would be continued in the
next phase. Stronger links would also be established among research, exten-
sion and the monitoring and evaluation units to effect improvements in the
technical packages and to incorporate farmer preferences more fully and
quickly. (ii) the institutional arrangements for management and implementa-
tion of the project would be more closely integrated into the MOA structure



- 10 -
(para. 4.01). (iii) a more concerted effort supported by technical assistance
would be directed towards development of the cooperative systems (para. 4.13),
and the establishment of an efficient marketing system (para. 4.14) to ensure
a viable system for handling credit, input supply and produce marketing at the
end of Phase II.
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      In view of the agricultural potential of Lofa County and the good
results of the Lofa Phase I project, Government asked the Bank to prepare and
finance a second phase. The Bank's Regional Mission for West Africa in
collaboration with the management of the project undertook preparation and
government submitted the report to the Bank in January, 1981. The project was
appraised in May-June 1981.
3.02      The proposed four-year project would consolidate the achievements
under Phase I, and extend agricultural services to other farmers in the
present project areas and to those in areas hitherto untouched. At the end
of the project an additional 8,000 farm households are expected to benefit
directly from Phase II, bringing the total number of farm families for
Phases I and II to some 16,000. Swamp and upland rice production would be
increased; new plantings of coffee and cocoa would be carried out, while a
limited effort would be made to rehabilitate existing coffee. Particular
attention would also be paid to: introducing additional food crops into the
farming system; reorganizing and strengthening the cooperatives to allow them
to take over input distribution, credit, and primary produce marketing func-
tions; providing farm management assistance to farmers; and targetting activi-
ties especially for women-farmers (para. 4.06).
3.03      In defining project content, particular attention has beetn given
to the need to minimize costs in view of Government's financial con,straints,
and to reduce the demands on Government's budget at the end of the project
implementation period. Staff requirements for Phase II and recurrent for
Phase I (to be financed solely by Government - para. 3.16) have been kept to a
minimum. Furthermore, there would be greater involvement of farmers through
improved cooperatives in order that they may take over responsibility for
input distribution, seedling production as well as marketing activities.
Summary Description
3.04      The project would specifically provide for:
(i) improving 6,300 ha of upland rice, developing 1,100 ha of swamp
rice, 3,300 ha of new coffee, 1940 ha of new cocoa, 600 ha of
cassava and rehabilitating 290 ha of existing coffee;



- 11 -
(ii)  expanding and strengthening the extension services with the use of
the Training and Visit system and reaching women-farmers through
female extension workers;
(iii) reorganizing training for staff and farmers to effect the extension
program, and the improvement of cooperat:Lves;
(iv) producing coffee and cocoa seedlings and cassava setts for sale to
farmers; strengthening the adaptive research for carrying out
locational crop varietal and cropping systems trials aimed at crop
diversification and improved cropping practices;
(v) reorganizing cooperatives and providing guidance and support
to enable them to take over responsibility for credit; input
supplies and marketing, and to function as viable enterprises;
(vi)  continuing schistosomiasis monitoring and control measures in
connection with swamp rice development, and the construction
of 160 village wells and 100 latrines;
(vii)  constructing and upgrading 174 km of feeder roads and 60 km of
farm tracks, and maintaining some 600 km of existing feeder
roads;
(viii)  establishing a central monitoring and evaluation section of MOA to
provide guidance coordination and training of a number of project-
specific monitoring and evaluation units:,
(ix)  supplying consultancy services and technical assistance, for
monitoring and evaluation, cooperative development, marketing,
LPMC's management, roads, research and coffee and cocoa processing.
Detailed Features
3.05      Administration, Extension and Training.  The project would fund
staff, vehicles, equipment and operational costs for project management,
finance and audit services (para. 4.01) required for Phase II (US$1.5 millioln
base cost). In addition, the modified training and visit system of extension
which is already in use would be strengthened through closer coordination and
supervision, and through regular progress reviews. A total of 116 extension
staff would be funded under Phase II, including 8 Hiome Economic Assistants who
would be absorbed from MOA to provide agricultural and home economics service
to women-farmers. Training of extension and other project staff would empha-
size the training and visit system, the development: of cooperatives and
preparation of farmers for increased participation in managing the development
affairs of the area. Such training would be carried out at the existing staff
training center at Voinjama. Farmers training, while mainly carried out under
the T and V system, would include one-day and short: residential courses at the
Farmers Training Centre at Kolahun. To strengthen these services the project
would fund the staff, vehicles, audio-visual equipment and materials, operating
expenses, some short term overseas training and consultancy for T and V review
(US$4.2 million base cost).



- 12 -
3.06      Crop Development:  Cultivation of food crops would be improved and
cash crops increased. These improvements would be implemented through the
project's improved extension service in combination with farmer training, and
supported by inputs and credit supplied as loans through the cooperatives.
This program would be based on recommended technical packages arrived at
mainly through the experiences of Phase I, and described in Section 5 of this
report.
3.07      Plant Production and Adaptive Research:  The supply to farmers of
coffee and cocoa seedlings would be improved. Since LPMC ceased supplying
coffee and cocoa seedlings, the project has had sole responsibility for
producing its seedlings requirement. The project would fund the purchase of
coffee and cocoa seed from Ivory Coast and Sierra Leone, and the setting up of
nurseries throughout the project area for producing the seedlings. However,
during this Phase, a phased program would be introduced for establishing town
nurseries run by the farmers themselves. It is estimated that by the end of
the project, out of a total of 84 nurseries, 50 would be town nurseries.
Cassava setts would be produced by the project for distribution to farmers.
Rice seed would continue to be purchased by the project from contract farmers,
until the IFAD Smallholder Rice Seed Project is able to supply the project
requirements. A program of adaptive research would be promoted aiimed pri-
marily at diversifying the range of crops produced in the uplands, and
improving the cropping systems currently employed by farmers (Working Paper
No. 2). It would also serve as the coordinator of locational and on-farm
trials of CARI in the Lofa area. Financing of the plant production and
research activities would include staffing, vehicles, equipment, operating
expenses, maintaining trial locations, and consultancy for helping to set up
and supervise a suitable research program (US$1.9 million base cost).
3.08      Cooperatives Credit and Inputs:  Major emphasis would be given to
the development of existing cooperative societies (CS) and to Town Cooperative
Units (TCU) with a view to handing over responsibility for input supply,
credit and produce marketing to the cooperatives by PY3. In PY1 and 2 the
project's Commercial Services Division would continue to provide these ser-
vices. Credit assistants, bookkeepers and inventory clerks would be provided
to service new farmers on an area basis. The project would continue to
support the strengthening of cooperative management by recruiting a coopera-
tive specialist, through a training program and through the financing of CS
managers on a reducing scale (75%-50%-25%) and bookkeepers (50%), over
three years. Funds also would be provided for one technical assistance
personnel, vehicles and operating costs; and where necessary, for additional
staff. The Agricultural Cooperative and Development Bank (ACDB) would assist
in training of cooperative staff and would administer a Revolving Loan Fund
(para. 4.18) on behalf of participating cooperative societies.
3.09      The project would provide incremental farm inputs to farmers on
cash and credit for both farm development and seasonal requirements. Medium-
term loans would be provided to rehabilitate existing farms and to establish
new farms of swamp rice, coffee, and cocoa. These loans would be given in
kind for tools and equipment, coffee and cocoa seedlings, fertilizers, and



- 13 -
agricultural chemicals during the development period, and in cash for hired
labor for swamp land development, and establishment of coffee and cocoa
farms. Seasonal credit would be provided in kind for upland rice and swamp
rice to cover seed and fertilizers, and for coffee and cocoa to cover ferti-
lizer, agricultural chemicals and sprayers after the development period (para.
4.16). Interest rates for seasonal and development credit would be brought in
line with those of ACDB, and in keeping with inflation rate (para. 4.16).
Delivery of farm inputs would be made through the cooperative societies and
would be sold at sufficient mark-up to cover costs (para. 4.16). To ensure
farmers a permanent supply of credit, the project would establish a Revolving
Loan Fund to finance inputs, which would be administered by ACDB on behalf of
GOL under a Financing Agreeent (para. 4.18). ACDB would maintain a separate
account for each cooperative within the Revolving Loan Fund. Imported re-
current farm inputs required for the Phase I project would be procured on
behalf of the cooperatives through LPMC (acting on a commission basis), whilst
rice seed, coffee and cocoa seedlings would be prc,cured locally. Funding for
Cooperatives Commercial Services and inputs is expected to total US$7.9
million (base cost).
3.10      Schistosomiasis Surveillance:  The Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit
(SSU) would be maintained by the project and woulcd continue to monitor schis-
tosomiasis organisms in relation to swamp rice activities of the project.
Staff, replacement, vehicles and equipment, and operating costs including drugs
for treatment of the disease would be provided (US$0.4 million).
3.11      Road Construction, Wells and Latrines:  The project would provide
finance for the construction and upgrading of some 174 km of additional
feeder roads and some 60 km of farm access tracks to service new project
areas. Of the 174 km of feeder roads, 100 km would be done by the Ministry of
Public Works' Feeder Roads Unit (FRU), for which the project would fund the
fuel, lubricants and machine spares required. The remaining 74 km would be
constructed by the project's roads unit which would also maintain 600 km of
existing feeder roads. The feeder roads construction program would be com-
pleted over a 2-year period. The project and the Public Works' FRU would
utilize existing road-building machinery, and only minor pieces of equipment
would be added to the project's equipment to improve its road building capa-
bility. Self-help unskilled labour would be provided by villagers as in
Phase I. As was done under Phase I, the project would provide for the
construction of 160 village wells and 100 village latrines. Finance would
be provided for hand pumps and culverts for constructing the wells while the
villagers would be responsible for providing sand, for digging and general
construction of the well under the project's supervision. Roads, wells and
latrine construction are expected to cost US$2.2 million (base cost).
3.12      Monitoring and Evaluation:  The project would continue to finance
the activities of the existing monitoring and evaluation (M and E) unit.
Additionally, the project would assist Government in establishing a Central
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit under MOA, which would provide coordination,
training and guidance to the several project based M & E units which already
exist. The project would fund technical assistance (one position), personnel,
vehicles, equipment and operation and maintenance expenses for the central
unit.



- 14 -
3.13      Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services:  The project would
provide funds for internationally recruited staff and for consultancy ser-
vices. International staff (totalling 6 man-years) would be required for the
improvement of cooperatives in the project area (para. 4.13), for the improve-
ment of LPMC's management, especially in its financial systems ancd control
(para. 4.15), and in establishing the Central M & E unit (para. 4.24).
Short-term consultancies would be funded for:
(a) Coffee and cocoa processing - The quality of coffee and cocoa beans
is generally poor, resulting in marketing losses. Much of this poor
quality can be attributed to improper harvesting and processing
methods. Some 3 man-months of consultancy would be provided to
assist in introducing improved techniques.
(b) Crop Research and Development - Some 6 man-months would be financed
to assist in guidance to the research program and various areas of
crop research, such as improved cropping systems for the uplands,
new technology for smallholders and variety and fertilizer usage in
tree crops.
(c) Training and Visit Extension System - The modified system to be
used would be reviewed periodically to ascertain its effectiveness
(3 man-months).
(d) Management Training - Conducting 2 management training seminars for
senior and mid-level staff to incorporate effective principles,
specifically for implementing the project (4 man-months).
(e)  Monitoring and Evaluation - Some 3 man-months would be required
for reviewing the progress of the Central M & E unit.
(f) Study of the LPMC - About 3 man-months would be financed under
a Project Preparation Facility to review the marketing and financial
operations of the LPMC.
(g) Feasibility Studies - To carry out feasibility studies for develop-
ment within the sector ($100,000).
(h) Roads - Review and advise on the road construction and maintenance
program (2 man-months).
3.14      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that prior to engaging
any consultant or technical assistance staff, the detailed terms of reference
for their employment would be reviewed with IDA, and consultants' reports
would be promptly reviewed with IDA for examining possible implementation
implications.
Cost Estimates
3.15      Project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties (from which
the project is exempt), are estimated at US$28.0 million of which US$13.7
million or 49% would be direct foreign exchange requirements. The baseline
cost estimates have been derived from mid-1981 prices. Cost estimates for



- 15 -
civil works (swamp development, roads, wells and buildings) have been based on
those experienced in the Phase I project with appropriate adjustments. Incre-
mental farm inputs are costed at farmgate level. Local staff salaries and
emoluments reflect the current project scales as agreed to by Government.
Internationally recruited staff costs of US$80,000 per man-year for technical
assistants, and US$10,000 per man-month for short-term consultants, exempt
from income taxes, reflect prevailing conditions. P'hysical contingencies have
been calculated at the rates of 10% for buildings, and 5% for civil works,
equipment, non-labor farm inputs and operational costs, (and amount to 3% of
total base costs). Anticipated annual price increases, amounting to 29% of
total base costs plus physical contingencies reflect projected annual infla-
tion rates of: 7% for all personnel costs, and 10% for local civil works and
operational costs; 7.8% in 1982, 8.0% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985, and
6% in 1986 for the foreign exchange component. A stLmmary cost table is
presented in Table 2 with further details in Annex 1 and Working Paper 6.
Table 2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(US$ millions)
Percentage of
Local    Foreign    Total    Base Costs
Administration                             0.8        0.7         1.5           7
Agricultural Extension                    2.1         1.1         3.2          15
Training                                  0.5         0.5         1.0           5
Plant Production and Research             1.5         0.4         1.9           9
Cooperatives and Commercial Services    2.2           1.8         4.0          19
Farm Inputs                               1.5         2.4         3.9          18
Schistosomiasis Control Unit              0.2         0.2         0.4           2
Roads, Wells and Latrines                 0.7         1.5         2.2          10
Land Planning                             0.3         0.3         0.6           3
Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit  0.6           0.5         1.1           5
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit  0.4           0.2         0.6           3
Consultancy and Technical Assistance    0.2           0.4         0.6           3
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)        0.0         ().1        0.1           1
TOTAL BASE COSTS               11.0        10.1       21.1         100
Physical Contingencies                  0.1         0.5         0.6           3
Anticipated Price Increases             3.2         3.1         6.3          30
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            14.3       13.7        28.0          33
3.16      Recurrent costs in the Phase 1 project (Credit 577-LBR) have been
defined as those costs necessary to maintain the level of production achieved
under that project. These costs which are estimated at US$1.0 million per
year (1982 prices) are not included in the project costs discussed above. The
composition of these recurrent costs are discussed further in para 6.08 and
Working Paper 6. At negotiations, assurance was obtained that Government
would make the necessary allocations in the Agricultural Budget, provide
foreign exchange requirements and increase the funds as necessary to maintain



- 16 -
these services at a comparable level. The recurrent costs for maintaining the
Phase I and II project would be about US$1.5 million at the end of the invest-
ment period.
Proposed Financing
3.17      Given the financial constraints of the Government of Liberia, ninety
percent of project costs would be covered by IDA, and the African Development
Fund (ADF) on a parallel financing basis. The remainder of the project costs
would be covered by the Government of Liberia. The proposed financing plan is
shown in Table 3 (further details are in Working Paper 7). The proposed IDA
credit of US$15.5 million would be on standard terms and would finance 55% of
the total project costs. The credit would finance US$8.7 million (64% of
total) foreign exchange costs of vehicles, operations and maintenance, build-
ings and farm inputs for the credit, cooperatives and input supply services;
vehicle operational costs of the Extension and Central M&E services, and
personnel and supporting costs for consultancy services. The IDA c:redit would
also cover US$6.8 million of the local costs involved in these components
including US$4.95 million for local personnel for the credit, cooperatives and
input supply services. The ADF credit would be on the same terms as the IDA
credit and would cover US$5.0 million (56% of total) of foreign exchange costs
of vehicles, and operational costs of six divisions and the associated local
costs. The Government's contribution of US$ 2.9 million (10% of total projects
costs) would cover mostly local personnel and operational costs. A condition
of IDA credit effectiveness would be that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the ADF Loan Agreement had been fulfilled.
3.18      In view of the financial constraints facing the Government of
Liberia, it would be essential for the successful implementation of the
project that prefinancing for certain categories of project expendiLtures be
provided. An amount of US$200,000 financed as an advance from the IDA credit,
would be deposited in a special project account at the National Bank of
Liberia. The account would be replenished upon receipt of a disbursement
application supported by: (i) a statement of account transactions and balances
certified by the National Bank; (ii) a reconciliation of withdrawaLs with
statements of expenditures and receipts for permitted expenditures; and (iii)
a reconciliation of balances with disbursements by and pending cla:Lms to IDA.
Should any disbursement be made from this account, which is not acceptable to
IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding amount in the special
account. Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations.
3.19      Procurement:  All goods financed under the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts valued at US$75,000 or
more, for vehicles and equipment (US$1.6 million) and for fertilizers (US$2.0
million) would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB).
Purchases would be grouped into packages of at least US$75,000, whenever
possible; contracts valued at less than US$75,000 but more than US$10,000 for
these items (US$0.6 million) would be procured through local competitive
bidding or limited international bidding under procedures acceptabLe to IDA.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
level of applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Contracts of less than
US$10,000 for small items such as spare parts, office supplies, fueal, tools,



TABLE 3
LIBERIA: LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Financing Plan
(US$ Millions)
IDA                               ADF
GOL
Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign  Total  Local         Total
Administration                                                       0.80        0.90            0.30         2.00
Training                                                             0.50        0.70            0.10         1.30
Plant Production                                                     1.70        0.50            0.30         2.50
Land Planning                                                        0.30        0.40            0.10         0.80
Roads, Wells and Latrines                                            0.70        1.90            0.30         2.90
Schistosomiasis Control Unit                                         0.20        0.30            0.10         0.60
Field Monitoring & Evaluation                                        0.40        0.30            0.10         0.80
Cooperatives and Credit         2.25         2.25                                                4.40         4.90
Buildings                       0.05         0.25                                                0.10         0.40
Farm Inputs                      1.40        3.50                                                0.60         5.50
Extension                        2.30        1.50                                                0.30         4.10
Central Monitoring and
Evaluation                   0.70         0.40                                                0.10         1.20
Consultancy and T.A 1/          0.10         0.70                                                0.10         0.90
Project Preparation Facility                 0.10                                                             0.10
TOTAL              6.80         8.70      15.50        4.60        5.00   9.60    2.90         28.00
Percentage of total cost                                55                             35        10          100
1/ Includes T.A for Monitoring and Evaluation and Cooperatives



- 18 -
pesticides and seedlings (US$3.75 million) would be procured through limited
local tendering based on at least three quotations. Contracts for buildings
(US$0.3 million) would not be attractive to foreign contractors due to their
small sizes and dispersed locations and would, therefore, be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Consulting services (US$0.3 million) would be procured in accordance
with IDA guidelines (Ref. Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. August 1981). Long term
technical experts (US$0.6 million) would be recruited under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA. Hired labor for farm development (US$1.4 million)
would be obtained from the local markets. The services of local personnel
(US$4.95 million) would be recruited from existing Phase I staff or the local
market in accordance with Government procedures.
3.20      Goods and services financed by the ADF (US$9.6 million) would be
procured in accordance with ADF's procedures. The GOL contribution would be
mainly for local costs of staff salaries and operating expenses (US$2.3
million), and production inputs (US$0.6 million).
3.21      Disbursements
The proceeds of the IDA credit of US$15.5 million would be disbursed
over four years as follows:
Category                              Terms                      Amount
I.   Production Inputs         100% of foreign exchange costs.
90% of local-costs.                    4.2
II.   Civil Works - Buildings  100% of foreign exchange costs.
70% of local costs                     0.3
III.   Vehicles and Equipment   100% of foreign exchange costs.
90% if purchased locally               1.7
IV.   Consultancy Services      100% of foreign exchange costs           0.8
and Technical Assistance  85% of local costs
V.   Staff                       90% of costs of local salaries
for the Credit and Cooperatives,
Extension, and Central M&E
Divisions                              4.5
VI.   Operating Expenses         100% of foreign exchange costs
90% of local costs for the
Credit and Cooperatives Division       2.2
VII.   Initial Withdrawal for
Special Account                                                   0.2
VIII.   Project Preparation Faci-
lity                                                               0.1
IX.   Unallocated                                                        1.5



- 19 -
3.22      A disbursement schedule (Annex 2) has been prepared on the basis of
the disbursement profile for Liberia, adjusted to the project's 4-year imple-
mentation period. Disbursement against vehicles and equipment, civil works,
salaries and allowances of internationally recruited consultants, production
inputs, fuel and spares would be fully documented. Disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditure, (which would be checked during the
course of project supervision) covering the local costs of local staff salaries
and minor miscellaneous operational expenditures. The project's auditors
would check the reliability of statements of expenditures and would include a
statement to this effect in the annual statement of accounts. Disbursements
into the Project Special Account would be made according to the procedures
discussed in para 3.19. Assurances were be obtained from Government at
negotiations that all supporting documents for statements of expenditures and
withdrawals from the special account would be maintained and made available
upon request for inspection by IDA. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by December 31, 1986.
3.23      Budgeting, Accounts and Audits:  Following present practices, the
Phase II project administration would prepare annual budgets and estimates of
quarterly cash requirements for both the present and previous projects, based
on appraisal estimates but amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs
and project development policies. The administration of Central Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (CMEU) would also prepare its budget and quarterly cash
requirements on the same basis. The budgets would then be submitted to the
Steering Committee (para 4.02) for approval, then sent through the Ministry
of Agriculture to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. After approval by the
Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance would make the appro-
priate allocations in the Agricultural Budget and, thereafter, would release
to the project all necessary funds quarterly in advance, as per cash-flow
statements. The Government would also make timely allocations in the budget
for the importation of recurrent farm inputs and other goods required under
the proposed and previous projects.
3.24      The Government of Liberia would cause the Ministry of Agriculture
to: (i) establish and maintain separate project-related accounts for Phase II
project including the CMEU, in accordance with sound accounting practices as
already established under the previous project; (ii) have the accounts and
statements of expenditures audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
of the end of each project year; (iii) ensure that the reports of the auditors
are of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request; and (iv) furnish
such other information concerning its accounts as IDA may reasonably require.
Assurance ensuring the adoption of the above accounting and auditing proce-
dures was obtained at negotiations. Under the Phase I project GOL has
satisfactorily complied with these conditions, and the accounting procedures
in place are acceptable to the Association.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would have overall responsibility
for the project, with implementation responsibility delegated to a Project
Manager supported by technical and administrative units. He would be desig-
nated the County Agricultural Officer (CAO) for Lofa County, and would be
responsible for all project-related and other MOA staff, who operate outside
the Phase I project area. These presently parallel staff would be merged with
existing project staff into a single structure. A few ongoing MOA activities,
such as livestock, will not benefit from direct support under the proposed
project, but the CAO will oversee such activities with resources available
from MOA. Five existing technical divisions would implement the project:
Agriculture, Training, Cooperative Development, Plant Production and Research,
and Land Planning. They would be supported by three existing divisions for
financial control (finance and audit), project management, and monitoring and
evaluation. The Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit would continue to be
supported technically by the Ministry of Health and the Liberian Institute for
Biomedical Research in its monitoring and control activities (Organization
chart, Annex 8). MOA is in the process of restructuring and decentralizing
its regional activities but final details are not yet available. The CAO
would be responsible for planning changes in the project organizatiLon and
procedures as necessary to better fit any new MOA structure. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that Government would review with IDA any
proposals to reorganize MOA's services in Lofa. Assurances were also obtained
at negotiations that during project implementation, the CAO, the Agricultural
Development Manager, the Agricultural Manager, the Financial Controller, and
the Commercial Services Manager would have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA.
4.02      For the purpose of providing policy guidance to the project, the
Project Steering Committee, already in place, would continue to function with
the Registrar of the CDA and the Managing Director of ACDB becoming additional
members of this committee. Similarly, the Project Advisory Committee consist-
ing of local officials and Chiefs would continue to provide implem(entation
guidance and facilitate the expansion of project development activities into
the new areas of the county.
Farmers Participation
4.03      The project would build upon farmers already reached by the exten-
sion service under Phase I by increasing farmer participation. Further, the
project would promote increasing farmer involvement in local development
matters, and would rely heavily on the use of existing local groupings, the
Town Cooperative Units (TCUs) and district cooperative societies (para 4.12).
Farmers would also be encouraged at village or town level to produce coffee
and cocoa seedlings with supervision provided by the project, as a means of
reducing the cost of such seedlings to them (para. 4.09). Single women-farmers



- 21 -
and farmers' wives would also be reached by the extension services to encourage
their direct participation in project activities (para 4.06). A farm manage-
ment officer would be appointed to the project for advising all levels of
farmers in the business and farm planning aspects of their enterprises.
Staffing
4.04      Adjustments would be made to the Phase I staff structure in view
of the experiences gained over the implementation period, and to bring it
more in line with the MOA structure (para 4.01). The complement of admin-
istration staff would be reduced, and some deputy positions would be removed.
Some 38 additional agricultural staff would be obtained from existing MOA
staff (totalling 79) in the county. Government has indicated that the surplus
staff would be transferred out of Lofa. An assurance was obtained at negotia-
tions that Government would effect the necessary reduction in staff consistent
with efficient operation of the project. Because a satisfactory level of
management has been attained under Phase I, it is not envisaged that any major
personnel changes would be required. In view of the need to develop strong
and efficient cooperatives, and because of the scarcity of suitable experienced
Liberians in cooperatives, assurances were obtained at negotiations that an
agricultural cooperative specialist would be recruited internationally for
this purpose under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.14).
Extension Services
4.05      Extension Organization.  The extension service under Phase I has
started to implement a modified version of the training and visit system,
which should increase the efficiency of the service through better farmer
contacts, and increasing the number of farmers per extension worker from a
ratio of 60 to 1, to 110 to 1. This ratio is based on the experience gained
under Phase I, and takes into account the distant Locations of farms under
shifting cultivation, and distances which have to be covered on foot to reach
these and swamp locations. Also in this project some new areas would be of
low population density. Basic extension work would be carried out by 135
Agricultural Extension Assistants (AEA) who would be located throughout the
project area, and would advise farmers on the use of the project's tech-
nological packages. The work program of the extension staff would be based on
regular contact with farmers. As is already the practice, each AEA meets with
established groups of farmers every week to present instructions on the
technological packages.   On alternate weeks, the same group meetings take
place in the field. The AEAs work is supervised by 14 Senior Extension
Assistants (SEA), and the SEAs in turn would be responsible to 5 Extension
Officers (EO), who would be assigned on a district basis. An Agricultural
Manager assisted by a Deputy Agricultural Manager would have overall respon-
sibility for extension activities. There are no subject matter specialists
(as in the T & V system) in the project area at this time. The project's
research section would be in close contact with the extension service, and the
latter would liaise with MOA's Extension Department, with CARI and other
agricultural projects to acquire further improvements in cropping practices,
etc., which could be applied in the project area. To further strengthen
the application of a modified T & V system, a suitable consultant would be
employed to provide guidance and to set up review procedures (3 man-months).



- 22 -
4.06      Under the proposed project, 2 Senior Home Economics Workers and 6
Home Economics Assistants would link with SEAs and AEAs to provide extension
service specifically to independent female farmers and more particularly
farmers' wives who, though it is acknowledged can play an important role in
the adaption of improved packages, have been somewhat constrained socially
from direct contact with male extension workers. Apart from assisting in
promoting the technological packages of the project to the women, the Home
Extension Assistants would also advise on and encourage improved home gardening,
diversification of crops to provide for more variety in the diet, and would
demonstrate utilization and storage techniques for these crops. Senior Home
Economics staff from MOA, Monrovia and senior project staff would 'provide
guidance and technical direction to these workers, and the project would
supply them with technical material and equipment to assist them in their
demonstration programs.
Training
4.07      The Training Division would be headed by a Manager who would report
to the CAO, and would be assisted by a Senior Training Officer and two Train-
ing Officers. The program of training new staff for project implementation
and of providing updated training to existing staff would continue with
emphasis on the Training and Visit extension method.  MOA staff (including
Home Ecbnomic Assistants), who will be working with existing project staff,
would receive a ten-week orientation and training course at the Voinjama Staff
Training Center. The Training Division would invite other MOA specialists,
CARI and WARDA staff to give lectures and demonstrations in order that project
staff would be made aware of technical developments in agriculture. Selected
farmers who would serve as contact farmers for assisting in implementing the
training and visit system would be given residential training at the project's
Kolahun Farmers' Training Center. The Training Division would organize two
management seminars to be conducted by consultants for management staff. The
first would assist managers to implement the project, through identification
of objectives, techniques to be used and methods for assessing results. The
second seminar would be a follow-up to the first. Management courses would
also be run for junior supervisory staff.
Plant Production and Research
4.08      As exists at present, the Plant Production and Research Division
would be headed by a Manager, who would be responsible for providing the
project's requirement of cocoa and coffee seedlings, rice seed and cassava
setts. Research would be principally adaptive in orientation.
4.09      Plant Production:  This section would be staffed with a P'lant
Production Officer, Nurserymen and Nursery Assistants, and would produce
coffee and cocoa seedlings in project established nurseries located in the
districts. Each nursery would be run by a nurseryman under the supervision
of a nursery assistant. The project would promote on a phased basis the
establishment of town or village nurseries, to be run by farmers themselves
undet the supervision of Nursery Assistants.  Assistance could be given in
choosing a suitable location, provision on credit of plastic bags and seed,



- 23 -
and transport at cost for the required soil for filling. Farmers would be
taught nursery management and would be required to arrange for the daily
tending of nurseries. By Year 4, it is expected that some 50 such nurseries
(out of an estimated total of 84) would be established in the project area.
Where individual farmers have the resources, they would be encouraged to set
up their own nurseries.
4.10      Until the IFAD-funded Rice Seed Unit is able to meet the project's
requirements, the project would continue its arrangements as under Phase I by
which it obtains basic (foundation) seed from CARI, multiplies it on its own
swamps and on selected private farms, with the resulting seed sold to project
farmers. Cassava setts of improved varieties (mosaic tolerant) would be
produced for distribution to farmers in areas where mixed cropping with
cassava is practised.
4.11      Research.  The Research section of the Plant Production and Research
Division would be directly under the Manager of the Division. Adaptive
research would be emphasized together with simple replicated experiments.
Liaison would be maintained with other Liberian scientists and on-farm trials
would be organized. Upland cropping systems at trials currently in progress
would continue to ascertain techniques and cropping cycles for beneficial
utilization of the upland, e.g., rice/cassava, rice/groundnuts mixtures,
minimum tillage and continuous cropping versus shifting cultivation. Loca-
tional testing of swamp rice varieties would continue, while testing of
crops, particularly vegetables, for swamp slopes and paddies (where a second
rice crop is not possible) would be introduced. Tree crops (cocoa and coffee)
research would be carried out relating to husbandry variety, fertilizer,
insect pest and disease control, and improved techniques for harvesting and
processing these crops. The project would fund short-term consultancies of up
to 6 man-months to provide guidance in setting up and supervising a research
program for the project area, if possible in conjunction with CARI in these
areas of deficiency. The project would negotiate with the Liberia Rubber
Development Unit and the Firestone Company for establishing trials on rubber
in the project area in order to assess its potential as an additional cash
crop for the Lofa area.
Cooperative Development
4.12      Organization:  One existing cooperative society (CS) in the new
project area would be added to the five under Phase I (para 2.18). Member-
ship presently exceeds 6,000. They have low standards of management, and
accounting and auditing is weak. The TCUs (para 2.18) which are affiliates
of these societies and have no legal status, each comprise a small group of
farmers (10 to 30) who have collective responsibility for credit. CSs and
TCUs would be improved and handle input supply, credit and marketing opera-
tions. Each CS would follow the provisions of the Cooperatives Societies Act,
and fulfill the minimum requirements relating to elections of Boards of
Directors, organization, staffing, accounting and auditing. The TCUs would
remain small in order to maintain the group approach. They would continue
to be affiliated to cooperative societies, and although they would not be



- 24 -
eligible for registration, would each have a small management committee. This
committee would comprise of the Town Chief and two elected elders, with the
AEA and a Cooperative Credit Assistant (CCA) in ex-officio capacities. The
committee's primary function would be to process and recommend loana applica-
tions to the CS, and assist in loan recovery.
4.13      To bring about the improvements the newly formed CDA (para 1.15)
would appoint a senior cooperative officer as Regional Assistant Registrar
of Cooperative Societies of Lofa, Bong and Nimba counties combined, and a
Cooperative Officer specifically assigned to the project area. The Regional
Assistant Registrar would head a small field staff which would provide audit,
supervision and inspection. There is only a small number of Liberians who
are properly trained in cooperatives, and an even smaller number with enough
experience. The project's cooperative specialist would organize the coopera-
tives in the project area so that by the end of the project they would become
fully responsible for inputs supply, credit and marketing. He would also
assist in training CS staff and, where required, provide guidance and advise
CDA staff in cooperative operations. More detailed recommendations for
reorganization and strengthening of these cooperatives have been proposed in
the report of the consultants on "Liberia Cooperative Credit and Marketing
System With Particular Reference to Lofa County Agricultural Development
Project", and a dialogue is in progress between Government and IDA on these
recommendations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would: (a) by October 31, 1982 agree with IDA on detailed measures for
improving the Lofa cooperatives based on the above-mentioned report, (such as
included above and in para 4.12), (b) provide adequate staff and logistics
support to the CDA in the project area to permit it to function in keeping
with the Cooperatives Societies Act, (c) appoint by December 31, 1982 an
Assistant Registrar to the region and (d) review with IDA by August 31, 1985,
the progress made in the Lofa cooperatives, and, if necessary make proposals
for their further improvement.
4.14      Input Distribution and Crop Marketing.  To facilitate these activi-
ties in the expanded project area, 19 additional sub-centres, each serving
about 300 farmers, would be constructed at the better located TCU's where
traditional weekly markets are held. These sub-centres would continue to be
constructed with participation from the local population, and would serve as
the focal point for project activities for the area, such as cooperatives
meetings, storage and distribution of inputs, marketing, and extension meetings.
Where subcentres are too distant, existing village stores would be used.
Each subcentre would be managed by a TCU member who would be appointed by the
participating TCU's, and trained by the project. Until the cooperatives take
over full responsibility for inputs, the Commercial Service Division (CSD) of
the project would continue to procure, transport, store and distribute inputs
(fertilizer, chemicals and tools) on behalf of the societies. The CSD would
carry out the operations with a modified Phase I staff structure, headed by a
CSD manager, and it is expected that, in implementing the detailed proposals
to be agreed for the reorganizing and strengthening cooperatives (para. 4.13),
this staff could be utilized in the cooperatives, thereby transferring the
expertise gained in the project. Detailed proposals for improving crop
marketing through the cooperatives have been put forward in the study referred
to in para. 4.13. These proposals seek to correct anomalies in the existing
buying arrangements and ensure that an equitable price is paid to the farmer.



- 25 -
4.15       However, it is recognized that the role of LPMC in these operations,
and particularly in relation to produce pricing, also requires reviewing.
As discussed in para 1.13, LPMC is currently facing financial problems, which,
though principally resulting from the situation mentioned in that paragraph,
are also due to inefficiencies in its organization and management. Through an
advance obtained under the Project Preparation Facility, Government has agreed
to undertake a study of the entire marketing operaltions of LPMC (from farmgate
to export), and, assurance was obtained that by September 30, 1982, Government
would agree with IDA a plan of action for improving the operations to ensure
LPMC's viability and provide the farmers with a fair price for their produce.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1984, Government
would carry out the agreed plan of action in respect of the management and
operations of LPMC. Technical assistance would be provided in the project for
a qualified and experienced management specialist to assist LPMC in this
implementation.
4.16       Farm Credit.  Farm credit services developed under Lofa Phase I would
be maintained with minor modifications: (a) an increase in the credit limit
to US$2,500 per farmer for combined development and seasonal credit; (b)
an extension of the grace period for development loans from four to five years
for new cocoa planting; and (c) increase the development loan to include assis-
tance to farmers for hiring labour for brushing and ring weeding in the
establishment period.  A farmer may apply for up to a maximum of one ha
development credit (either for swamp rice, coffee, or cocoa or a combination
of any of these crops).  He would, however, be able to apply for a credit of
up to 2 ha for upland rice if he has not signed for any development credit for
cocoa, coffee, or swamp rice or up to 1 1/2 ha for upland rice if he has
already signed for one-half ha development credit. A farmer with one ha of
development credit would still be able to apply for up to one ha of upland
rice credit. However, farmers would provide at least 5% of the investment
costs in cash or labor for all crops. Except for cash payment for hired
labour for development purposes, all loans would be in kind such as, tools,
equipment, fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, etc. Seasonal credit would
also be available for upland rice where fertilizer is used. Interest charges
to farmers would be increased from 10 to 15% per annum for seasonal loans and
from 10 to 12% per annum for medium/long term loans. 1/ Assurances to this
effect were obtained from Government at negotiations.
4.17       Loan and Repayment Terms for upland rice would continue as for
seasonal credit, while other crops would be modified as follows:
a)   Swamp Rice - Development loan averaging US$305 per ha disbursed
over two years and repaid in 2 annual installments following
1 year's grace period. Interest to be capitalized during the
grace period.
I/   The domestic inflation rate climbed from arolnd 7% during 1976-78, to
11.5% in 1979, and reached 13.5% in 1980--mainly because of expansionary
effects of expenditures on the 1979 OAU Conference. More recently
the inflation rate has declined, and is estimated at 10% for 1981.



- 26 -
b)   Cocoa Plantings - Development loan US$1,065 per ha disbursed
over 4 years and repaid in 7 annual installments following a 5-year
grace period. Interest to be capitalized during the grace period.
Seasonal credit would be available from Year 5 onwards.
c)   Coffee New Plantings - Development loan US$415 per ha disbursed
over 4 years and repaid in five annual installments following 5 year
grace period. Interest to be capitalized during the grace period.
Seasonal credit would be available from Year 4 onwards.
4.18      As was done in Phase I, credit procedures would be based on the
active involvement of the AEA's who would initiate contact with the farmers,
and the CCA's who would process applications through the TCU's and the CS's.
On the basis of the total loan approvals, a forecasted quarterly dLsbursement
schedule would be prepared for each cooperative. Details on credit procedures
are in Working Paper Cl.
4.19      Financing Arrangements and the ACDB:  The financing arrangements
under the project are designed to provide adequate working capital for the
cooperative system and to forge closer relationship between the ACDB and the
cooperatives as a step towards establishing a viable cooperative system with
internal financial control and supporting facilities. It is, therefore,
proposed that the total value of the farm inputs to be financed under the
project (about US$ 5.5 million, including contingencies) would be considered
as equity of the Government of Liberia in the ACDB which, in turn, becomes
equity of the ACDB in the Cooperatives. This provision of equity would per-
mit (a) the ACDB to be represented on the Board of each cooperative and be
involved in its management and (b) the establishment of a sound resource base
for the cooperatives, since in the initial period their cost operations
compared to their projected income streams would not permit accumulation of
adequate savings.
4.20      The farm inputs financed under the project would be provided as
loans to farmers which would be disbursed by the project's Commercial Services
Division under the procedures described in para. 4.18 above; the division would
also continue to manage the accounts of the cooperative societies rLntil such
time that the societies are strong enough for the books and staff to be fully
transferred to them. The total value of the loans disbursed through each
cooperative society would be issued as equity of the ACDB in the paLrticular
cooperative. The shares of the ACDB in the cooperative would be designated as
"Nominal Shares" since they would not be entitled to the same borrowing and
profit-sharing privileges as the other members, but are guaranteed a minimum
payment for services rendered (see para. 4.21 below). When a cooperative
society has reached a strong financial position it may buy out or reduce the
holdings of the ACDB in its equity, thus releasing funds for investment
elsewhere by the ACDB. (For further details on these arrangements, see
Working Paper No. Cl).
4.21      Repayments:  The ACDB is the Banker of the Cooperatives.  When loans
are repaid they would be deposited in revolving accounts in each cooperative's
name at the ACDB. The ACDB would deduct 4% of these repayments as a service



- 27 -
charge. The ACDB would supervise withdrawals from these accounts to ensure
that they are properly authorized and confirm to the agreed disbursement
schedule of the particular cooperative (para. 4.18). It would be a Condition
of Effectiveness that GOL had executed a Financing Agreement with ACDB,
satisfactory to IDA, which would include, inter alia, (a) the transfer of
funds provided under the project (about US$ 5.5 million) as equity of the
GOL in the ACDB and as equity of the ACDB in the cooperatives. (b) the
representation of the ACDB on the DCC and (c) the administration of the
revolving accounts of the cooperatives by the ACDB with a service charge not
exceeding 4% of annual collections.
Land Planning, Roads, Wells and Latrines
4.22      These two activities would continue to be run by the Land Planning
Division headed by the Land Planning Manager. While he will have overall
responsibility for the Division, his Deputy will be in charge of road con-
structing and maintenance. The land planning activities consisting of survey-
ing, designing, and laying out irrigation and drainage works for swamp rice,
as well as determining areas whose soils are suitable for coffee and cocoa
would continue as under Phase I. Two Senior Land Planning Assistants, and
10 Land Planning Assistants would carry out these operations under the direc-
tion of the Land Planning Manager. Additionally, they would determine the
location of farm access tracks to be constructed in relation to tree crop
development.
4.23      The CAO would be responsible for coordinating the road construction
work of the two road units (para. 3.13) and would liaise with the County
Superintendent and other officials in determining the location of these roads.
The feeder roads would be planned on the basis of the crop development program
of the project, and, as far as possible, the new project areas would be
given priority. The Deputy Land Planning Manager with the Project's Roads
Unit would implement the agreed portion of the road construction program
(74 km of feeder roads and 50 km of farm access tracks), and would ensure that
each road is constructed in line with MPW design and specifications, and is
suitably recorded on maps. The construction of the feeder roads and a portion
of the farm access tracks is expected to be completed in 2 years. By Year 3,
the project's roads unit should be primarily concerned with completing the
farm access tracks and maintaining some of the existing feeder roads network.
The CAO would at this stage arrange for the phasing out of this unit which
should be completed by the end of Year 4. As was done under Phase I, local
communities would provide self-help labour to assist in the construction
of roads and farm access tracks. During this project, these communities would
be encouraged to undertake road maintenance on an organized self-help basis in
cooperation with the Ministry of Local Government. In this way, some road
maintenance can be assured after the project period. However, an assurance
was obtained at negotiations that Government would take over the responsi-
bility for maintaining all feeder roads constructed under the project.
4.24      An adjunct to the project's Roads Unit is a small group of artisans
who are responsible for implementing the wells and latrines construction
program. This group would continue under Phase II under the direction of the



- 28 -
Deputy Land Planning Manager. As is normally done, project staff would
consult with town chiefs on the location of both wells and latrines, they, in
turn, would arrange for the availability of local labour, the obtaining of
local material and would assist in getting the townspeople to use these
facilities properly. A suitable person would be chosen from within the
commun'ty to be responsible for carrying out minor repairs to the handpump of
the well. The project would train these persons, and would provide back-up
assistance in case of major pump failures.
4.25      Schistosomiasis.  The Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit (SSU) would
continue to operate as under Phase I, under the guidance of the Director of
the Liberian Institute for Biomedical Research (LIBR). As already composed,
the Manager of the Unit would submit his program to the Director LIBR who
would advise on its content and implementation. Additionally, the Manager
would liaise with the local Ministry of Health officials and would keep them
informed of developments in their monitoring and treatment activities.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E)
4.26      Project Specific.  The project's M & E Unit would be strengthened
to permit more detailed planned ad hoc surveys to be carried out, and
to improve survey methods. The Unit would continue to be headed by a Manager
assisted by an Agricultural Economist, a Statistician, 2 Senior Assistants and
some 10 Enumerators. This staff would be augmented by part-time assistants,
mainly students, when required. The M&E Unit is working to a program developed
during the first phase including suggestions made by visiting consultants.
The unit would have regular quarterly meetings with management, and would
inform it of important findings as soon as they are available. A post-project
evaluation exercise would analyze total project impact, and would be carried
out principally by the Unit.
4.27      Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.  The Central M & E Unit
would be established in MOA's Planning and Development Department, which is
headed by a Deputy Minister of Agriculture. This Unit would be run by a
Director, and would consist of a Deputy Director, two Agricultural Economists,
a Rural Sociologist and a Statistician. Support staff for these senior level
officers would be provided. Since the field of M & E is new in Liberia,
the project would fund the employment of qualified and experienced interna-
tionally recruited Director for this unit. He/she would be employetd for a
period of two years, during which time, a suitably qualified local Deputy
would be trained to take over this post. Upon assuming the Directorship,
the Deputy Director position would no longer exist, as the staff complement
would he adequate. The CMEU would carry out the following functions:
(a) develop appropriate and realistic evaluation procedures, (b) coordinate
and give technical guidance to all project specific M & E's, (c) train project
M & E staff (d) collate data collected by the Unit, projects and other related
agencies, and record the analysis and interpretation of achievements with
progress reports to MOA and the project's steering committees and (e) under-
take field investigations for baseline studies, M & E of on-going projects
and ex-post evaluation of such projects. In order to obtain a greater
understanding of the role, value and use of M & E, the CMEU would conduct
special seminars with Project Managers and other Project Management staff, as
well as with MOA officials.



- 29 -
4.28      In view of the innovative nature of the functions of the CMEU, and
the relevance of its work to other Ministries with responsibility in the
field of rural development, a Central Advisory Committee on Monitoring and
Evaluation would be established to review on a quarterly basis its program of
work and activities, and to discuss the results of major studies which have
national implications. The committee would be chaired by the Deputy Minister
of Agriculture for Planning and Development, and would consist of senior
representatives of the Ministries of Planning and Economic Affairs, Finance,
and Local Government. Representatives of other Ministries, such as Health,
and Public Works may be co-opted from time to time whenever items of interest
to these Ministries are to be discussed. The Director and Deputy Director
would be ex-officio members of the committee.
4.29      Reporting Requirements.  Reporting under P'hase I has been good.
Project Management under the guidance of the CMEU, would continue to prepare
quarterly and annual reports for its own use and that of the Steering Com-
mittee and MOA. These reports would be submitted promptly to the Bank for
review after each reporting period. At negotiations, Government gave assurance
to this effect.
V. PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
Crop Development
5.01      Upland Rice.  Although swamp rice product:ion is gradually increas-
ing, the practice of growing upland rice is still extremely strong, and the
two proven technological packages (seed exchange and seed with fertilizer)
offered under Phase I would continue in this project. Seed exchange would
be the main package for those new project areas which have normal fallow
periods (approximately 10 years). LAC 23, the proven improved variety, would
be provided in exchange for the traditional unimproved variety. This arrange-
ment has yielded as much as 50% more than traditional varieties under Phase I.
The residual fertility in the soil derived from a normal fallow period in
Voinjama, Kolahun, and Zorzor Districts would be adequate to support this
level of production without fertilizer. By the end of Phase II some 5,500 ha
would be expected to benefit from the seed exchange package. For areas where
the fallow period is short (less than 6 years), such as in Foya and some parts
of Zorzor, a credit package consisting of improved LAC 23 seed and fertilizer
(NPK 15:15:15) would be used. Some 800 ha are expected to receive this
package by the end of the project. Packages: Seed exchange -- 60 kg per ha
of improved seed; Credit -- 60 kg per ha of improved seed and 100 kg/ha of
fertilizer NPD (15:15:15). Yields are expected to rise from 1,000 kg/ha under
traditional cultivation to an average of 1,400 kg/ha with seed exchange, and
to 1,400-1,600 kg/ha with the credit package.
5.02      Swamp Rice.  From experience gained under Phase I, the project would
emphasize its swamp rice development program in areas where the population
density exceeds 70 persons per square mile. It has been found that these
areas can supply and attract enough labor to support continuous swamp rice



- 30 -
production. The average swamp holding per farmer under the project is ex-
pected to be 0.5 ha. However, based on a demonstrated ability to provide
adequate labor, approximately 5-10% of swamp rice-farmers are expected to
develop 1 ha each under the project. The swamp layout and design used under
Phase I have proved suitable for the project area, and considerable expertise
has been built up within the project to make implementation of a Phase II
program less difficult. However, Phase I experiences show that there is
the need for close supervision to be given farmers in the maintenance of
irrigation and water control structures in the second year. Also, the
development credit package would cover a two-year period to assist farmers
in carrying out further development work, such as tree-stump removal, and
repairing and completing water control structures. The credit package would
comprise a development loan for land clearing (tools and hired labor) after
initial brushing by the farmer, and seasonal loans for seed and fertilizer.
The recommended improved varieties and IR 5 for new swamps, and those free
from iron toxicity, and Suakoko 8 for iron toxic swamps. The recommended
seeding rate is 45 kg/ha, and a system of established nursery and seedling
transplanting would be practised. Fertilizer would be applied in the form
of 100 kg each urea (45% N) and TSP (45% P) and, 50% Potash, where potash
deficiency is evident. Some pesticide is likely to be required against stem
borer and caseworm, and herbicide use is estimated for 25% of the area. While
farmers continue to practise panicle harvesting, for easy storage, the project
would promote the use of whole stalk harvesting and threshing where farmers
intend to sell the paddy rice directly after harvesting. Some pedal threshers
are in use in the project area, and credit would be provided for groups of
farmers desiring to purchase them. Yields are expected to be 2,500 kg/ha
(versus 1,000 kg by traditional methods) in Year 2 and 3,250 kg/ha in Year 3
and on, at which time, some 25% of the area is expected to be doublie cropped.
5.03      Coffee - New Planting.  Based on Phase I experience, the project
would promote an expanded program of coffee planting, particularly in areas
where enough farmers in close proximity to each other would participate, and,
where possible, cultivate contiguous blocks. Generally, such blocks would be
established near towns and would justify and permit the construction of access
tracks, and town nurseries for seedlings' production. New improved agronomic
practices would be introduced, based principally on a pruning cycle of 4 or
5 years, in which farmers' plantings would be phased in at 1/4 or 1/5 ha per
year, (thus minimizing the need for credit and hired labor, and evening
out production with 3/4 or 4/5 ha always in production while 1/4 or 1/5
pruned). Selected seed of known progeny would be purchased from th,e Ivory
Coast, and the seedlings produced under the direction of the project. Seed-
lings would be planted on the incline at a 300 angle from the vertical to
promote the sprouting of shoots, from which the best 4 or 5 would bie chosen.
Although some experience has been gained under Phase I, there is yet insuf-
ficient data for refined fertilizer recommendations to be made. Based on
current evidence, a reasonable recommendation is 50 kg urea in Years 1 to
3 and 200 kg in Year 4 and on. Further research would be carried out in
conjunction with CARI to determine more precise requirements. Yields of
traditional coffee are under 200 kg/ha in Year 3, 450 in Year 4 and would
average 600 kg/ha after Year 8. Full details of the agronomic practices to
be used are set out in Working Paper No. C2.



- 31 -
5.04      The project would also select suitable areas for trials in which
farmers would intercrop upland rice with coffee. While this new system would
mean almost zero-shade planting of coffee (which wou:ld be new to the area), it
would have the advantage of the farmer combining in one place both his food
crop, upland rice, and a cash crop--coffee. For this method to succeed,
coffee planting must take place about the same time that the rice is planted,
that is, with the first rains. This gives the coffets seedlings the entire
rainy season to develop, and, with good cultural practices, should ensure
commercial production by Year 4. The farmer and his family would be more
inclined to take care of the young coffee plants in ithe vital first year,
since traditionally they would be occupied largely with activities associated
with the upland rice. Maintenance of the coffee wouLd not require hired
labor.
5.05      Coffee Rehabilitation:  A combination of activities are required to
adequately rehabilitate coffee trees. However, unless the genetic potential
exists and the trees are not too old, these measures would be wasteful.
Further, farmers have not fully accepted rehabilitation as a means of increas-
ing coffee production from their old trees. The project would continue its
rehabilitation program of carefully selecting farms on good soils, acceptable
tree density (more than 1,000 trees/ha), well-formed stems capable of respond-
ing to pruning, and proper shade reduction. Some 290 ha would be rehabilitated
by Year 4, with a slow build-up in Years 1 and 2 for demonstrating to farmers
the techniques of rehabilitation. Yields are expected to be increased from
less than 100 kg/ha to 250 kg/ha. At this yield potential level fertilizers
would not be applied.
5.06      Cocoa.  Project staff would continue to carefully choose cocoa
growing areas with ample shade in place since farmers generally prefer
to plant cocoa this way. Arrangements would be made for cocoa seed to be
obtained each year from existing sources (local and Sierra Leone). This seed
material is generally of the hybrid type (Amelonado x Amazon).  However, it
is proposed that CARI should test varieties, and establish its own clonal
seed gardens for Liberia in view of the expansion of cocoa production in the
country. By Year 4 of the project, some 1,940 ha of cocoa would be planted
under the project. Under Phase II, extension staff would advise farmers to
plant cocoa between April and June, and to weed 4 times a year. From Year 4
onwards, shade trees would be thinned to reduce the risk of black pod infec-
tion. As with coffee, there is very little data available on the fertilizer
requirements of cocoa in Lofa. However, since Lofa's cocoa planting areas are
mainly in forest, only phosphorus would be applied in the immaturity period
(300 kg TSP for just 3 years). Thereafter, mixed fertilizer would be applied
based on soil analytical work, and fertilizer trials to be carried out by the
ongoing project's research unit in consultation with the Tree Crops Unit at
CARI. Plant health measures would consist of capsid control by spraying in
July-August and November/December with Lindane or Gammalin 20. Cocoa yields
are expected to start at 150 kg/ha in Year 3 and peak at 750 at year 7 (versus
less than 250 kg under traditional methods).



- 32 -
5.07      Coffee and Cocoa Harvesting and Processing.  Although harvesting of
these crops is relatively simple, farmers often pick immature and overripe
cocoa pods both of which adversely affect processing of the beans, while in
coffee, farmers pick ripe and unripe cherries in one or two rounds, instead of
only ripe cherries in three or four rounds. The result for both cocoa and
coffee is a product of mixed quality with a lower grade than obtainable with
ripe picking. Processing techniques are also inadequate, and help to reduce
the quality of the produce. Simple proposals for improving harvesting,
fermentation and drying of cocoa, and processing of coffee cherries, have been
put forward in Working Paper No. 2. Apart from the above recommendations,
there is a need for a better understanding in Liberia of both processing and
grading of coffee and cocoa to provide better export products. The project
would employ a consultant to advise project staff and LPMC on post-harvest
operation for these two crops. Extension staff would advise farmers in these
harvesting and processing techniques, and, with the cooperation of LPMC, would
inform them of the necessity to sort the cocoa and coffee before selling.
Farmers would also be informed of the grading system for each crop, and the
price they may expect based on grading.
Cassava
5.08      Improved varieties of this crop have been introduced into the
project area from IITA Nigeria, but their use is not widespread. The pro-
ject would sell on credit to upland rice farmers, particularly in the Zorzor
area, 400 setts of these selected varieties, which, apart from substantially
increasing yields are also tolerant to the prevalent cassava mosaic disease.
(The yield increase is partly attributable to this characteristic). This
initial planting would provide adequate material for extending the cassava
area in the second year after the upland rice has been harvested. This system
prolongs the use of the cleared land into a second year. Farmers would be
expected to space plant 1/10 of the upland rice area with cassava. Yields
would average 10,000 kg/ha versus 4,000 with unimproved varieties.
Farm Labor
5.09      The average family size in the project area is about 7 persons, of
which the combined daily contribution of working members would be equivalent
to 4 man-days. The crop development programs are planned around 1Labor avail-
ability as a limiting factor based on data collected by the M & E Unit.
Annual labour requirements per hectare based on M & E surveys for development
range from about 264 mandays for swamp rice to 70 mandays for coff-ee and
cocoa; requirements per hectare for cultivation range from 290 mandays for
upland rice (seed exchange) to about 65 mandays for coffee (5 year phased
planting program). Traditionally, migrant labor from Guinea is available in
the more intensively farmed areas. This labor pool has been successfully
utilized under Phase I by grouping workers into gangs. The system would
be introduced into the new project areas. Wages are US$ 2.50 per day plus
some food.



- 33 -
Environmental Considerations
5.10      The project seeks to minimize the adverse effects of existing
agricultural practices on the environment, and on the health of the community.
The long tradition of shifting cultivation through annual removal of forest
trees may be alleviated somewhat by the introduction of improved rice seed and
fertilizer which should increase productivity. Swamp rice cultivation should
similarly reduce the need for this annual land clearing. However, swamp rice
is associated with schistosomiasis, and although swamps are commonly used for
fishing, washing, and many other activities, the project would continue the
monitoring of swamps for and treatment against schistosomiasis. A program of
health education and the construction of wells and latrines in towns would be
carried out by the project.
Table 4: LOFA COUNTRY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
CROP YIELD ASSUMPTIONS
(kg/ha)
Before
3rop         Development  PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    PY6    PY7    PY8    PY9    PY10
Jpland Rice      1,000    1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400  1,400
Swamp Rice       1,000    2,250  2,500  3,000  3,250  3,250  3,250  3,250  3,250  3,250  3,250
coffee (new)        -         0       0    200    450    800    650    800    250    500    800
toffee (rehab)      70       70      50    100    250    200    250    100    200          -      -
-'ocoa              -         0       0    150    300    500    750    800    800    800    800
Zassava          4,000   10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
VI. DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Demand
6.01      At full development (by 1987 for the food crops and 1994 for the
tree crops) the project would generate incremental annual production of about
6,400 tons of paddy (equivalent to about 4,170 tons of rice), 3,600 tons of
cassava, 1,940 tons of cocoa, and 2,400 tons of coffee. The incremental
production of food crops would be easily absorbed into the domestic market.
The country is a net importer of food, including rice which is the major
staple. Average per capita consumption of rice is about 85 kg and slightly
higher at about 100 kg per annum in the project area. Annual rice imports
have averaged about 56,000 tons over the past five years and a deficit is
expected to continue despite the rice components in the ongoing and planned
agricultural development projects. The incremental production of rice and
cassava would be consumed within and around the project area. Coffee and
cocoa are export crops and are therefore important sources of foreign exchange.



- 34 -
The country is not expected to face any problems in marketing the incremental
production. It is a member of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) and
its current quota has been lowered to about 8,000 tons which is in excess
of its estimated domestic production of 6,500 tons. However, due to price
differentials and the use of the dollar as the domestic currency iunofficial
inflows of coffee from neighbouring countries can push total exports up to
9,800 tons, as in 1979/80. These unofficial inflows are expected to decline
given (a) the current levels of producer prices paid by the LPMC (which are
now in line with those of the neighbouring countries) and (b) the removal of
the subsidy on rice which was being bartered for coffee and cocoa at the
borders. Furthermore, the Government of Liberia has signed a fiveB year
contract with Libya (which is not a member of the ICO) for an annual delivery
of 2,000 tons of coffee. Liberia is not a signatory to the International
Cocoa Agreement and therefore has no quota restrictions on its sale of cocoa.
However, its export of some 4,500 metric tons (1980/81) is confined to EEC
countries and the US, and the projected increased production from this project
is insignificant, relative to world production of 1.6 million tons (1980), and
can be easily absorbed in the traditional markets.
Marketing
6.02      The food crops would be marketed through the existing network of
private traders, which is adequate for handling the increased volume of
production. The rice marketing system is highly competitive and given the
demand situation farmers receive from private traders prices that are well
above the government minimum price of 12 cts per lb of paddy; prices range
from 50% above (at harvest) to 90% above (at other times) the minimum price.
There are several private and three LPMC owned rice mills in the area and
processing capacity is considerably in excess of requirements; recovery rates
average about 65%.
6.03      The export crops - coffee and cocoa - would be marketed through
the LPMC marketing system of licenced buying agents. At present there is
considerable concern about the competitive efficiency of the system and the
operational efficiency of the LPMC (paras. 1.13, 3.13 and 4.15). Actual
producer prices are often far below official prices due to situations of
farmer indebtedness and pledging of crops to the agents as well as cheating
on weight. The measures to be taken under the project for improving the
marketing system and the operations of the LPMC have been discussed in
paras. 4.13 and 4.15. The expansion and strengthening of the cooperatives
to handle the marketing of output and inputs and as a vehicle for credit
(paras 4.12-4.15) would also reduce the present imperfections in the marketing
system.
Prices
6.04      Given the projected demand and supply situation for rice in Liberia,
it is expected that market prices for rice and paddy will continue to be high
in the project area. The projections for the farmgate paddy price are based
on a weighted average base price of US$330 per ton in 1981 and the IBRD
projected price trend for rice (see Working Paper No. 5). In the case of the



- 35 -
export crops (coffe and cocoa), it is expected that the LPMC with improved
cost control measures (para. 4.15) would be able to maintain official producer
prices at between 65-70% of f.o.b. prices. The main objective of the expansion
of the cooperatives under the project is to channel all credit, input supply
and marketed output through the system, therefore the spread between the
official producer price and the farmgate prices for coffee and cocoa is not
expected to be more than 6% to cover transportation costs and weight and
quality discounts (See Working Papers 1 and 8).
6.05      The financial and economic prices for farm produce used in the farm
budgets and calculation of the economic rate of return (ERR), respectively,
are shown in Table 3 below. They are based on existing domestic prices and
trends and IBRD forecasts. In the farm budgets a markup of 7% has been added
to non-labor farm inputs to cover the operational costs of the cooperatives.
In the ERR calculations, border prices were adjusted by the economic costs of
transportation, distribution and processing to determine the net economic
prices. Further details on these costs and prices, and the underlying assump-
tions are set out in Working Paper No. 8.
Table 5: FARMGATE PRICES 1/
per metric ton
Real 1982 prices
Financial                   Economic
1982    1985    1990        1982    1985    1990
Output:
Rice (paddy)        340      389     403         323     372      385
Coffee            1,440   1,233   1,348        1,642   1,412   1,547
Cocoa             1,342   1,093   1,206        1,558   1,276   1,404
Cassava              65       65      65          65      65       65
1/   For underlying assusmptions see Working Paper No. 8.
Financial Returns to Farmers
6.06      The relative profitability and returns to resources in the various
cropping activities in the development program are shown in Annex 5, Table 1.
The wide variations in returns reflect the differences in the intensity of
resource use in the tree crops as compared with rice as well as the varia-
tions in yields obtained in the different types of rice cultivation. All
project farmers would achieve increases in returns per hectare of land and
per man-day of family labor. All incremental family labor would earn more
than the estimated opportunity cost of US$1.00 per man day; average returns
per man-day of family labor at full development would range from US$1.20 for
upland rice farming (seed exchange only) to $10.10 for cocoa farming (new
planting after loan repayment).



- 36 -
6.07      The total income effect on project farmers would depend on crop
combinations and labor requirements. Mainly because of labor constraints at
peak seasons a project farmer would only be able to develop and farm about
2 ha of land. The crop combinations and returns of four representative types
of farming systems are presented in Annex 5, Table 2; the corresponding
family and per capita annual incomes are summarized in Table 6 below.
Table 6: FARM INCOMES
(US$ real 1982 prices)
Farm Model 1/                       A             B             C
Farming Activity:                Coffee        Cocoa         Swamp Rice
Upland Rice  Upland Rice  Upland Rice
Cropped Area (ha)                   2.0          2.0           2.0
Approximate No. of Farmers        4,000        1,940         1,100
Farm Incomes
Present                           350          350           335
1992 W                           400           400           400
1992 W                           950 2/      1,370 3/      1,325
Per Capita Incomes 4/
Present                            67           67            64
1992 w                            77            77            77
1992 W                           183 2/        263 3/        255
W = without project
W = with project
1/   For underlying assumptions see Annex 5 Tables 1 and 2.
2/   Excludes the annual repayment of the development loan ($169.0 p.a.
for 5 years from Yr.6 - Yr.10. See Annex 5 Tables 1 and 2 and
Working Paper No. 9).
3/   Excludes the annual repayment of the development loan ($415 for 6 years
from Year 7 - Year 12. See Annex 5 Tables 1 and 2 and Working Paper
No. 9).
4/   Average family size of 5.2 members.
There would be wide differences in the incremental incomes streams among
farming types due to variations in the costs and periods of development. The
increases in incomes would range from about US$550 for a coffee/up:Land rice
farm to about US$970 for a cocoa/upland rice farm after repayments of the
development loans. Coffee would be the major crop developed under the
project despite the apparently greater profitability of cocoa and rswamp rice.



- 37 -
The expansion of swamp farming is limited by the arcluous nature of cultivation,
the availability of swamps, a preference for upland farming and a fear of
schistosomiasis. The expansion of cocoa is constrained by the availability
of suitable soils, the relative difficulties in processing and the higher
incidence of disease as compared with coffee. Farmers also indicate a pre-
ference for coffee because of relatively low labour requirements.
Financial Implications for Government
6.08      There are no direct taxes levied on the commodities that would be
produced under the project, but in the case of export crops, producer prices
are only about 65-70% of fob prices. The LPMC has been paying part of these
revenues as dividends to Government. However, given the present financial
situation of LPMC (para.1.13) and the depressed markets for coffee and cocoa
(present and forecasted), it is estimated that incremental dividends would
only be between 2 and 5% of the f.o.b. (Monrovia) prices. Revenues from
indirect taxation are estimated at between 10 and 15% of the value of produc-
tion. Evidence from Phase I and similar projects elsewhere in Liberia suggests
that there would also be some secondary economic acitivities that would be
induced by the project in the marketing, construction, rice processing,
trading and other servicing sectors, thereby generating incremental revenues
from direct and indirect taxation.
6.09      The Government cash flow (Annex 6) is negative,during the implemen-
tation period, which is typical for such a project. The annual Government net
cash deficit (excluding recurrent expenditures of about US$1.0 million for
Phase I) averages US$0.6 million during the four year investment period.
The recurrent expenditures of Phase I consist mainly of personnel and the
supporting expenses for administration, extension and credit and input supply
services (for further details see Working Paper No.6).  The combined annual
recurrent costs of the Phases I and II projects would be about $1.6 million at
the end of the investment period, and would cover mainly administration and
extension services and roads maintenance necessary for maintaining the produc-
tion levels of both projects. While incremental revenues would not permit
full cost recovery, they would cover the recurrent costs of the project.
Incremental revenues from Phase II are expected to reach US$1.1 million by
1990, while those from Phase I should be at least US$1.2 million.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Overall Benefits:
7.01      It is estimated that there would be between 7,000 and 8,000 farm
families (30% total rural families in Upper Lofa) who would earn significantly
higher incomes (para. 6.06) under the various crop improvement and credit
programs. At full development of their respective crops, and after repaying
all development loans, about 55% of the farm families would earn family
incomes of around 2.5 times the present average of US$350 per annum for the
area, while about 45% would increase their incomes by about 3.5 times. The



- 38 -
improvement of the road network and provision of village wells and latrines
would reach beyond these direct beneficiaries to a considerably larger propor-
tion of the rural population. There would also be spin off effects from the
strengthening of the institutional services and the expansion of credit and
marketing services. Additional employment would also be created by the
increased activities that would be induced by the project in other sectors
such as trading, rice processing, construction, and transportation. It is
estimated that at least 50% (12,000) of the rural families in the county
would benefit in some way from the proposed project.
7.02      As Liberia is a net importer of food, (para. 6.01) the incremental
food crop production would represent considerable potential for annual net
foreign exchange savings. By 1990 the incremental annual output of rice would
be worth, at border prices, at least US$3.2 million per annum (in real 1982
terms) net of the foreign exchange costs of farm inputs. While incremental
annual foreign exchange earnings (net of imported inputs) from the export
crops would be about US$7.4 million (in real 1982 terms) by 1992.
7.03      The training programs and institution building to be introduced
under the project would improve local capability and facilitate planning and
implementation of future development programs. The creation of a Central
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would consolidate and streamline the current
monitoring and evaluation efforts of the various ADPs. It would also permit
a greater exchange of information and the formulation of common policies
among the ADPs. The project is justified on the basis of these direct and
indirect benefits which would accrue to the lowest income groups, even though
it is not expected to generate sufficient revenues to permit cost recovery.
Economic Rate of Return:
7.04      The Economic Rate of Return is estimated to be 17% (Annex 7,
Table 1). The important assumptions underlying the analysis are:
(a)  Benefits:  Only the direct benefits that would be generated by the
project from the incremental crop production (Annex 7, Table 1), are
included. Yields, acreages and production are as in Chapter 5. The
economic farmgate prices are shown in Table 3, the basis of their
derivation are in Working Paper No. 8.
(b) Costs: All investments in training and infrastructure, as well as
operations and maintenance costs and infrastructure that are directly
related to the generation of the identified benefits are included in
the analysis (see Annex 7, Table 1). For operations after the four
year development period, it is assumed that smaller support services
would be required to maintain the momentum achieved. A breakdown of
the recurrent operational costs is shown in Annex 7, Tab:Le 1.
(c) Shadow Pricing: Hired labor is priced at the market wage of
US$2.50 per manday. Family labor is priced at US$1.00 per manday
since the more mobile members have already joined the hired labor
market, and the returns to family labor in their alternative uses
presently range between $0.55 per manday for upland rice cultivation
and $1.00 per manday for other farming activities such as vegetable
and cereal cultivation, livestock rearing and off-farm work.



- 39 -
(d)  Project Life:  The economic life of the project is assumed to be
25 years including a 4-year implementation period.
Risks and Sensitivity:
7.05       The proposed project would be the second phase in the area and
would build upon the institutional structures and techniques developed in
the first phase so that normal risks associated withl projects of this kind
would be minimized. However, two constraining factors could be:
(a)  delays or failure in strengthening and expanding the marketing and
credit services through the cooperative network; and
(b)  delays or failure in improving the efficiency of the Liberian
Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC).
7.06       Therefore, the project would undertake a gradual handing over of
its credit and marketing functions to the cooperatives and provide managerial
training and other supporting assistance (paras 3.11 and 3.17). The opera-
tions of the LPMC would be analyzed under PPF financing and agreement on a
suitable plan of action for improving its operations would be agreed with
IDA (para 4.15).  The project would also provide financing of technical
expertise to implement the program (para. 4.15).
7.07       Sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the impact of
various adverse factors on the economic rate of return (ERR) and determine
which variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. As a
measure, switching values 1/ using an opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 10%
were computed. The numerical results indicated that in its present design
the project is fairly resilient to the possible risks and would remain
economically viable under various adverse conditions in any of its components.
The percentage changes between the appraisal estimates and the switching
values for the main variables were: for the total benefit stream -23%, for
the development costs +85%, for farm production costs +73%, and -57% for the
coffee program and -64% for the rice programs which are the main components
in the benefit streams. The project can withstand simultaneous decreases
of up to 20% in the economic farmgate prices of each of the three major
products -- coffee, cocoa and rice, other factors constant. The project
would become economically unviable if the developmental and recurrent costs
increased by more than 15% and at the same time total benefits fell by more
than 15% due to shortfalls in yields or adoption rates or a combination
of both. A more detailed sensitivity analysis of possible outcomes is pre-
sented in Annex 7, Table 2.
1/   The switching value is the value of the variable tested at which the
net present value (NPV) of the project, discounted at the OCC, is zero;
in other words, the value beyond which the ERR would fall below the OCC.
A switching value may be interpreted as a measure of how far a specific
variable may differ from its most likely value before the project becomes
economically unviable.



- 40 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following assurances were obtained from Government at nego-
tiations:
(a) that Government would engage consultants with qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA; consultants' reports would be reviewed by
IDA before implementation (para. 3.14);
(b)  that Government would make the necessary allocation in the budget,
provide foreign exchange requirement and finance the cost:s needed to
maintain existing Project services, and fund increases as necessary
to maintain these services at a comparable level (para. 3.16);
(c) that the project's special bank account into which IDA would
deposit an advance of up to US$200,000 would be operated under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.18),
(d)  that the project would continue to use accounting and auditing
procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.24);
(e) that the Government would review with IDA any proposals for
reorganizing MOA as they affect the project area (para. 4.01);
(f) that qualified and competent staff satisfactory to IDA would
be appointed to the positions of CAO, Agricultural Development
Manager, Agricultural Manager, Financial Controller, and Commer-
cial Services Manager (para. 4.01);
(g) that Government would effect the necessary reduction in MOA staff
consistent with efficient operation of the project (para 4.04);
(h) that personnel for the position of Cooperative Specialist would be
internationally recruited with qualifications and experience and
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.04);
(i)  that Government would take the required measures to improve
the cooperatives in the project area (para. 4.13);
(j)  that by June 30, 1984, Government would carry out the agreed
plan of action, in respect of management and operations of LPMC
(para 4.15);
(k) that Government would set interest rates on seasonal and develop-
ment loans at 15% and 12% respectively, and would annually
review these with IDA, and, if necessary, would revise these rates
charged under the project to reflect domestic inflation, and the
costs of administering the credit program (para. 4.16); and



- 41 -
(1) that by the completion of the project, Government would take
over responsibility for maintaining all feeder roads constructed
under the project (para. 4.23).
8.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADF
Loan Agreement had been fulfilled (para 3.17); and
(b) that Government had entered into a financ:ing agreement with
the ACDB for establishing and operating the Revolving Loan Fund
(para. 4.21).



- 42 -
Working Papers
C1     Credit Cooperatives and Marketing
C2     Crops and Research
C3     Roads
C4     Monitoring and Evaluation
C5     Reporting Format
C6     Project Costs - Development and Recurrent
C7     Financing Arrangements
C8     Economic and Financial Prices
C9     Crop and Farm Budgets



AnnexI
LIBERIA
LOFA COLNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EOss '0005
PER            PEG             PY3            GY4            L.oTAL             FOREIGN EXChANGE
Personnel                                     176.3           176.3           176.3          17t,.3          705.2
Vehicles and Equipment                         47.9            Ll.Z             E.S           56.6           117.2                 1O5.5
Operations and MiOntenance                    175.5           175.5           175.5          175.5           702.0                 561.6
Sub-total                               399.7           363.0          353.3           408.4         1,524.4                667.1
Agricaltural Extension
Personnel                                     477.5           477.5          477.5           477.5         1,910.0
Vehiclen and Equipment                        193.9            83.9           120.1          151.7           549.6                 494.6
Dperatlon and Maintenance                     177.0          177.0           177.0          477.0           708.0                 637.2
Sub-total                               846.4           738.4          774.6           806.2        3,167.6               1,131.8
Training
Personnel                                     109.4           109.4           109.4          109.4           437.6
Vehinlen and Equipment                         57.2            10.2            40.2           26.4           134.0                 120.7
Operatlonn and Maintenance                    104.0           104.0           104.0          104.0           416.0                 374.4
Sub-total                               270.6           223.6          253.6           239.8           987.6                495.1
Plant Prnduction and Reneseoh                     362.4           362.4           362.4          362.4         1,449.6
Personnel                                     362.4           362.4          362.4           362.4         1,449.6
Vehicles and iquip=en7 20.7                                    49.2           48.2            26.2           144.3                 129.9
Operations and Maintenance                     82.8            77.8            77.8           77.8           316.2                 284.5
Sub-total                               465.9           489.4          488.4           466.4         1,910.1                414.4
Ceopera-ti-e and Cam-erc1al Services
Persennel                                     389.5           439.0          490.5           550.0         1,869.0
ehinces and Equipment                         259.9           118.7           81.6           2f0.0           720.2                648.1
Operations and  2aintenance                   038.0           261.0           280.0          302.0         1,081.0                 972.9
Buildings                                      75.0            75.0            75.0           75.0           300.0                 180.0
Sub-total                               962.4           893.7          927.1         1,187.0         3,970.2              1,801.0
Par= Inputs
Fectili-ers                                   100.0           285.0           600.0         708.0          1,775.0               1,597.5
Seedling., Seed, Tools                        185.0           200.0          270.0           30'0.0          975.0                867.5
Hired Labor                                   150.0           265.0           330.0          395.0         1,140.0
Sub-total                               440.0           750.0        1,200.0         1,000.0        3,890.0               2,465.0
Schistoso=ianis Coerrel lnit
Pernonnel                                      62.8            62.8            62.8           62.8          251.2                    -
Vehicles and Eqip=ent                         27.2            17.2             2.0           19.2            65.6                  59.1
Operationn and Xiantenance                     37.6            37.6            37.6           07.6           150.4                 135.2
Cab-total                               127.6           117.6          102.4           119.6           467.2                194.3
Reeds, Wells and Latrines
Peronneel                                     147.6           147.6           147.6          147.6           590.4
Vehicles and Eqaipsent                          34.0           12.2             1.0            4.0            51.2                  46.1
Operations and Maintenanne                    608.0           608.0           190.1          190.1         1,596.2               1,436.6
Sub-total                               789.6           767.8          338.7           341.7         2,277.8              1,482.7
Land Planning
Persoenel                                      68.3            68.3            68.3           68.3           273.2
Vehicles and Eqciprent                         45.6            25.9            26.4           25.9           123.8                 111.4
Operations and Maintenance                     47.5            47.5            47.5           47.5           190.0                 170.8
Sab-total                               161.4           141.7          142.2           141.7           587.0                282.2
Cenneal Mnlitnrisg and Evaluation Enit
Personne                                      200.4           218.6           153.8          263.8           736.6                 160.0
Vebinle- and Eqaip-ent                         72.5             7.0             1.0           28.2           108.7                  97.8
Operations and Maintenance                     54.0            56.0            56.0           56.0           222.0                 199.8
Sab-total                               326.9           281.6          210.8           .148.0        1,067.3                457.6
Pr-jeot Monitoring snd ERaluetion Ueit
Personnel                                      83.8            84.8            85.8           85.8           340.2
Vehicles and Equipeent                          48.9           -                1.0           39.2            69.1                  80.2
Operatclans and Maintenance                     40.2           40.2            40.2           40.2           160.8                 144.8
Sob-total                               172.9           125.0           127.0          165.2           590.1                125.0
Cnn-ultancy and Technical Assistance               240.0          210.0            30.0            90.0          560.0                 406.0
Prnject Preparation Facility                       100.0           -               -              -              100.0                  80.0
Total Bane Costs                                5,305.4         5,101.8         4,948.1        5,714.0        21,069.3             I1.i02.2
Phybscal Coningencies                        145.1           141.3           142.9          174.8           607.1                 401.4
Price Contingencies                           836.3         1,273.2         1,710.7        ',504.2         6,324.4               3,082.5
Total Prnjact Costs                             6,289.8         6,516.3         6,801.7        8,393.0        28,000.8              13,666.1



Annex 2
Page 44
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement _/
(US$ Million)
IDA/IBRD Fiscal                                                   Cumulative
Year Quarter                       Disbursement                  Disbursement
FY 83  1st Quarter                        0.1                          0.1
2nd    "                          0.3                           0.4
3rd    "                          0.4                           0.8
4th    "                          0.5                           1.3
FY 84  1st Quarter                        0.7                          2.0
2nd    "                          0.9                           2.9
3rd    "                          0.9                           3.8
4th    "                          1.0                           4.8
FY 85  1st Quarter                        1.1                           5.9
2nd    "                          1.2                           7.1
3rd    "                          1.3                           8.4
4th    "                          1.3                           9.7
FY 86  1st Quarter                        1.4                         11.1
2nd    "                          1.3                          12.4
3rd    "                          1.0                          13.4
4th    "                          0.8                          14.2
FY 87  1st Quarter                        0.7                         14.9
2nd    "                          0.6                          15.5
1/   Based on the Regional IDA disbursement profile for agriculture
adjusted to reflect the 4 year implementation period of the project.



Annex 3
LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
PROJECT CROP AREA DEVELOPMENT
(Ilectarcs)
Cropfyear                           1           2          3          4          TOTAL
Upland rice
(seed exchange)                 1250       1350        1450       1450         5500
Upland rice
(credit package)                 200        200         200        200          800
Swamp rice                         220         280        290         310         1100
Coffee      . 
(New plantings)                  460        850         920        1100        3330
Coffee
(Rehabilitation)                  20         20         100         150         290
Cocoa
(new plantings)                  225        465         600         650        1940
Cassava                             -          100        200         300          600
.



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Incremental Crop Production-'/  (tons)
Pfl        PY2        PY3         PY4         PY5        PY6         PY7        PY8         pY9         PY10         PY11        PY12-25
RICE:
Swamp                                    495      1,180      2,067       3,o48       3,348      3,576       3,576      3,576       3,576        3,576       3,576           3,576
Upland! Seed Exchange                    500      1,043      1,620       2,200      2,200       2,200       2,200      2,200       2,200        2,200       2,200           2,200
Credit                         160        320         480         640        640         64o        64o         64o         640         640          64o             640
TOTAL                                 1,155       2,540      4,819       5,888      6,183       6,416       6,416      6,4i6       6,416        6,416       6,416           6,416      J-
COFFEE:
New Planting                             _          _          160         520       1,160      1,680       2 320      2 360       2,400        2,400       2,400           2,400
Rehabilitation                                      o -0.4     0.2         2.2        6.2        28.7        44.2       40.7        32.6         17.5        19.5             0.0
TOTAL                                    -           .4      160.2       522.2    1,166.2    1,708.7    2,364.2    2,400.7    2,432.6        2,417.5      2,419.5           2,400
COCOA:
New Planting                            _           -          _            34        138         343         691      1,092       1,495       1,810        1,940           1,940
CASSAVA                                         -          600      1,800       3,600       3,600      3,600       3,600      3,600       3,600        3,600        3,600          3,600
Based on the assumptions on yields (Chapter 4 Table) and the Annual crop development program in Annex



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Crop Budgets Per Ha at Full Development 1/
US $ real 1982 prices
Upland Rice and Cassava             Upland Rice Seed Exchange           Swamp Rice       Cocoa New Planting         Coffee Rehabilitation            Coffee New Planting
Credit Package  1984                Package        -  1983            1985  1986            1991  1997                          1986      1988    1991   1993
1982            W        W          1982             W         W        W         W          W          W           1982             W         W    W          W
Yiejd.2/     tons/ha                       1.0/0.4      1.0/0.4    1.8/1.0        1.0           1.0      1.4        3.25   3.25         1.0       1.0          0.070           0.30    0.25        .60        .60
Price3/      US$/ton                       340/65      368/65    368/65           340           351     351         390    390          1206      1206         1440            1233    1233       1348      1348
Gross Value of Production                     366.0       394        727.4           340          351      491.4       1267.5 1267.5       1206.0   1206.0        100.0          370.0   308.0    809.0    809.0
Costs of Production4/
Seed/Seedlings                                -          -         15.0            -             -       10.0        9.0       9.0        -
Fertilizers                                               -        55.0                                            115.0    120.0       180.0    180.0                                            220.0    220.0
Pesticides                                                -                  -          -                            5.0       6.0       20.0       20.0
Tools, Equipment, Bags                      15.0       15,0        15.0           15.0          15.0    15.0        18.0      19.0       10.0       10.0         5.0             5.0      5.0      10.0      10.0
Hired Labor 5/                             100.0      100.0       112.5          155.0         155.0   155.0       175.0    175.0         10.0      10.0        25.0            25.0    25.0       87.5      87.5
Interest 6/                                 23.0       23.0        35.0           34.0         34.0    34.0         50.0      51.0       40.0      40.0          6.0             6.0      6.0      50.0      50.0
Costs of Development 7/                                                -              -            -         -       220.5        -       415.0        -             -           117.0       -      169.0        -
TOTAL COSTS                                   138.0      138.0      232.5          204.0         204.0   214.0       600.5    380.0        675.0    260.0         36.0           153.0    36.0    536.5    367.5
Net Value of Production                       228.0      256.0      494.9           136.0        147      277.4      667.0    887.5        531.0    946.0         64.0           217.0   272.0    272.5    441.5
Family Labor (mandays) 8/                  252        252         182            230          230      230         170       170         95        95           20              40       30        63        63
Return per manday of Family Labor            0.9         1.0        2.7            0.6           0.6      1.20       3.9       5.2        5.6       10.0         3.2             5.4      9.1       4.3       7.0
1/  For the technological packages and assumptions underlying these budgets see working paper C2.  For purposes
of comparison data is provided for the first year of full development (maximum yield) and the first year
after rep.yaent of development loan (for tree crops and swamp rice).
2/  For yield asso,mptions see Table 4.
3/  For assumptions on prices see Working Paper No. C8-
4/  These are the variable costs of production only and do not include development costs.
H/ Hired labor is costed at the prevailing wage rate of US$2.50/manday.
6/  For 10-12 months at 15% for seasonal credit provided under the project, at 20% for credit from traditional sources.
7/ For the purpose of this analysis, annual development costs are assumed to be the annual repayment of the
development loan (capital & interest). For the actual annual development costs see the crop investment analysis
in Working Paper C9.
8/  Family labor for production only, labor for development is incurred in the earlier years.  See investment
analyses in Working Paper C9.
W - with project                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F
W - wthollt project



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Farm Models  I/
Net Value of Production        Total Family Labor       Real 1982 Prices
Cropped Area                                       _ndays -  1992    Net Return Per Manday
(ha)          1982       W     1992  W         1982                1982       W    1992  W
A.  Coffee 3/                    1.0              65       -      440              40    -   63
Upland Rice Seed Exchange   1.0              135      200     350             230   230 230
Other  4/                                    150      200     150             150   200 150
TOTAL                                        350     400      950             420   430 443       0.8      0.9   2.1
B.  Cocoa -/                     1.0              65           -  945              50    -   95
Upland Rice Seed Exchange   1.0              135     200      350             230   230 230
Other  4/                                    150     200       75             150   200  75
TOTAL                                        350     400    1370              430   430 400       0.8       .9   3.4
C.  Swamp                        1.0              -        -      925              -      -  170
Upland Rice Seed Exchange   1.0              135     200      350             230   230 230
Other  4/                                    200     200       50             200   200  50
TOTAL                                        335     400    1325              430   430 450       0.8      0.9   2.9
W   With project
4= Without project
I/  These farm models are representative of crop combinations in the project area.
2/  Estimation of net value of production are based on data in the crop budgets in Table and the Investment Analvsis on WPT X
3/  Present coffee production are from very old trees that will be non-productive by 1992. The "With project" value of
production excludes the annual repayment of the development loan ($169 p.a. for 5 years from year 6-yr.10. See
Investment Analyses Working Paper C9.
4/  Includes income from other crops -- cassava, yams, maize, vegetables, citrus, etc. and off-farm income.
5/  The existing cocoa trees would be non-productive by 1992. The "With project" value of production excludes the2
annual repayment of the development loan ($415for 6 years from year, 7 yr. 12.  See Investment Analyses Working  
Paper No.C9.                                                                                                             X X
(DX4



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE II
Government Cash Flow
(US$ '000)
PYI          PY2           mY3        PY4           PY5          PY6          PY7         PYB         PY9         PYYO       PY11       PY21
PHASE II CASH INFLOWS
IDA Credit                                         3135          3315         3935         5115
ADF Credit                                         2515           2515         2155         2415
Indirect taxes, dividends from LPMC 1/               60.0          135.0       295.0        495.0          670.0        840.0       1050.0    1135.0       1310.0      1375.0      1140.0  1400.0
TOTAL INFLOWS                                                         5710.0        5965.0       6385.0       8025.0         670.0        840.0        1050.0    1135.0      1310.0       1375.0      1140.0  1400.0
CASH OUTFLOWS
Project Costs
Agricultural Extension and Training                 1322.3        1213.8       1395.4       1519.4
Cooperatives, Credit and Input Supply Systems   1151.8            1144.6       1270.7       1747.6
Farm Inputs                                         537.8          989.7       1703.0       2275.2
Roads and Land Planning                             1145.8        1179.8        659.1        708.9
Administration                                      474.8          462.4        482.4        599.3
Plant Production                                     541.3         611.6        653.8        666.0
Schistosomiasis Control Unit                         151.2         149.2        138.5        174.3
Monitoring and Evaluation 2/                         591.5         507.9        459.5        602.3
Consultancy and PPF                                  363.3         257.3         39.3          -
Recurrent Costs
Agricultural Extension and Administration                                                                  250.0        250.0        250.0      250.0        250.0       250.0       250.0   250.0
Road Maintenance                                                                                           300.0        300.0        300.0      300.0       300.0       300.0        300.0   300.0
Debt Service IDA Credit 3/
Committment Fee                                       77.5          61.8         45.3         25.5           0.5
Service Charge                                        20.0          45.0         65.0         90.0         116.2        116.3         116.3     116.3       116.3        116.3       116.3   104.6
Principal Repayment                                                                                                                                                                  155.0   465.0
Debt Service ADF Credit 4/
Service Charge                                        15.0          30.0         45.0         60.0          72.0         72.0         72.0       72.0         72.0        72.0        72.0    64.8
Principal Repayment                                                                                                                                                                   96.0   288.0
TOTAL OUTFLOWS                                                  6392.3         6653.1       6957.0       8468.5         737.8        738.3         738.3     738.3       738.3        738.3       989.3  1472.4
Net Surplus (Deficit)                               (682.3)       (688.1)      (572.0)      (443.5)        (68.7)       101.7         311.7     396.7        571.7       636.7       150.7   (72.4)
Memo Item
Recurrent Costs Phase I
Administration                                       427.6         460.0        493.8        528.0         530.0         530.0        530.0      530.0       530.0       530.0       530.0   530.0
Cooperatives, Credit and Input Supply Systems    126.5             135.9        145.8        155.9           -                          -                      -           -           -        -
Agricultural Extension and Training                  317.8         343.8        370.3        496.4         500.0        500.0         500.0      500.0       500.0       500.0       500.0   500.0
TOTAL                                          871.9         939.7        1009.9      1180.3         1030.0       1030.0       1030.0    1030.0       1030.0      1030.0      1030.0  1030.0
1!  Indirect taxes on expenditures of project beneficiaries and dividends paid by the LPMC are estimated to be between 10-20% of the total value of production generated by the project.
2/ Includes both the central and project units.
3/   of IX per anonm committment fee on undisbursed balance of credit. 3/4 of 1% per nnnum service charge on disbursed amount.  Principal repaid over 50 years with a 10 year grace period;
repayment terms are 1% per annum for the first 10 years and 32 per annum for the next 30 years.
4/  Assumes ADF debt terms similar to IDA.



LIBERIA
LOFIA COIlJNT AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT it
Economic Coats and Benefits
USs
'000 (real 1982 terms)
PYI         PY2          PY3           PY4         PY5         PY6         PY7       PY8         PY9        PY10         PYII             PYt2-25
Development Costa:
Administration                              438.7      419.1         426.9        499.1        -           -            -         -          -          -           -                  -
Agricultural Extension                      848.4      738.4         774.6        806.2        -           -            -         -           -
Training                                    270.6      223.6         253.6        239.8        -           -            -         -          -
Plant Ptoduction and Research               465.9      489.4         488.4        466.4        -           -            -         -          -
Cooperatives and Commercial Services        962.4      893.7         927.1        1187.0       -
Schistosomiais Control Unit                 127.6       117.6        102.4        119.6                    -
Roads. Wells and Latrines 1/                789.6      767.8         338.7        341.7        -
Land Planning                               161.4       141.7        142.2        141.7        -
Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit 2/  64.0         56.0          42.0         50.0        -           -            _         _          _          _           _                  _
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit      172.9       125.0        127.0        165.2        -                                  -          -          -           -                  -
Conaultancy and Technical Assistance        230.0      210.0          30.0          -          -
Physical Contingencies                      148.1       141.3        142.9        174.8        -
Sub-Total                                  4678.6    4323.6         3795.8       4191.5        -
Recurrent Costs 3/
Administration etc.                          -          -             -            -          300.0       300.0        300.0     300.0      300.0      300.0       300.0             300.0
Extension Services etc.                      -          -             -            -          400.0       400.0       400.0      400.0      400.0      400.0       400.0             400.0
Road Maintenance                             -          -             -            -          300.0       300.0       300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0       300.0             300.0
Sub-Total                                    -          -             -            -         1000.0      1000.0      1000.0    1000.0      1000.0    1000.0       1000.0            1000.0
Credit and Cooperative Systems 4/            -          -             -            -          500.0       500.0       500.0      500.0      500.0      500.0       500.0             500.0
Incremental Farm Production Costs
Inputs - Fertilizers etc.                   335.0      485.0         870.0       1105.0      996.0       1101.0      1176.0    1230.0      1230.0    1230.0       1230.0            1230.0
Hired Labour                                150.0      265.0         330.0        395.0      379.0        391.0       473.0      523.0      573.0      563.0       563.0             563.0
Family Labour                               110.0      220.0         320.0        440.0      460.0        480.0       530.0      570.0      610.0      620.0       630.0             630.0
Sub-Total                                   595.0      970.0        1520.0       1940.0      1835.0      1972.0      2179.0    2323.0      2413.0    2413.0       2423.0            2423.0
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                    5274.6    5293.6         5315.8       6131.5     3335.0       3472.0      3679.0    3823.0      3913.0    3913.0       3923.0            3923.0
Benefits
Rice                                        361.5      795.0        1508.3       2190.3     2300.1       2386.8      2386.8    2386.8      2470.2    2470.2       2470.2            2470.2
Cassava                                       0.0       39.0         117.0        234.0       234.0       234.0       234.0      234.0      234.0      234.0       234.0             234.0
Coffee                                        0.0       -0.7         263.0        737.3      1646.7      2412.7      3338.3    3389.8      3763.2    3739.9       3743.0            3712.8
Cocoa                                         0.0        0.0           0.0         43.4       176.1       437.7       881.7    1393.4      2099.0    2541.2       2723.8            2723.8
TOTAL INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                     361.5      833.3        1888.3       3205.0     4356.9       5471.2      6840.8    7404.0      8566.9    8985.3       9171.0            9140.8
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
1/ Excludes (a) depreciation allowances for the machinery belonging to the MPW and those purchased under Phase I
(b) costs of voluntary labour supplied by the villagers
These costs are excluded on the sasumption that they are almost agreed to the indirect benefits generated by the road program.
2/  only one fifth of the total Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit are attributable to this project.                                                                                                          , I,
3/ These costs reflect the proportion of the total recurrent coats (at end of Phases I and II) that are attributable to maintaining Phase II production levels.
4/ The costs of administering the credit and cooperative systems that are financed from interest payments part of the costs are financed by markups which are included In the costs of inputs.



L.IBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVEM0PIT PROJECT II
Economic Analysis: Internal Rate of Return, Sensitivity Avalysis
-----C O S T S T R              E A N S             -BENEFIT STREAKS
UPV of Net lncrementat
Benefit Stream
Far.                                                                      IRR of Xet Incrental   Dscounted at 102
Development   Recurrent       Development      TOTAL        Rice  Cassava    Coffee  Cocoa  TOTAL        Benefit of Stream               UiSS mllion
NPV of Appraisal Estimate (lS$ Million)>I/    13.5      8.9             17.3           39.7         17.8   1.7        20.3     11.3   51.3               17.1                     11.6
NPV of Switching Value (USS Million)3'       25.1      20.4             28.9           51.3          6.4  -9.9         8.7    -0.2    39.7
Percentage change (AB to SV                 +85.4   +130.6             466.8           29.1        -4.4 -696.0       -57.0  -102.0  -22.6
Grouped Sensitivity Analysis4/               +10      +15               +10                          X      K          K       K                         14.2                     7.2
K        K                +10                         -10  -10          -10      -10                       13                       4.7
K        K                 K                           K      K         -35      -35                       10.4                     0.5
K        K                 K                          -20     K         -20      -20                       11.1                     1.6
+10       K                +20                         -15  -15          -15      -15                        9.4                    -0.9
+20                                            -10                9.1                     -1.5
+10                                          Lag 1 yr            11.1                      2.2
+10                                          lag 2 yr             8.7                     -Z_8
1/ Net Present Value (NPV) of each variable at a discount rate of 10 (the opportunity cost of capital - OCC)
2/ The NPV (at IOZ of each variable tested separately (other variables held constant) at which the NPV of the
net benefit stream of the project discounted at the OCC is zero.
3/ Percentage change that would be required in the appraisal estimate (AE) of a variable for it to reach its
switching value (SV)
- The variables are allowed to vary sinultaneously K - held constant at appraisal estimate (AR).
+ - Z increase in AE. -  I X decrease in AE



LIBERIA
LOFA COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE 11
ORGANOGRAMI/
Ministry of Agriculture       - - /-for non-projeclat|
rcipating Ministries
pusLPMC        Me_Project Coordinating Committee
ACDB
County Agriuciltural Officer Lofa County
|    SSU2    it 
Fin ance            Administration          Agricultural           Land Planning         Plant Production          Training           Commercial Services
Division         -Personnel                   Division                Division               Division               Division               Division
- Procurement        - Transportation        - Extension           -Swamp Development         - Coffee               -Staff              -Coop. Development
- Budget Control       Control               - Pest and            -Cocoa Coffee              - Cocoa                  Training          -Marketing
-Revolving Fund      -Public Relations         Insect Control        Development              - Rice                 - Farmer            -Accounts
Accounts           -Office Management    - Farm Management                                  - Cassava                 Training          -Inputs
-Home Economics                                  - Plantain             -Extension
--Other Crops           Aids
-Research
Road Construction
Unit
- Road Maintenance
- Feeder Road Construction
-Farm Access Tracks
11 To be reviewed and brought in line with MOA structure by PY4.
2J SSU, Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit.                                                                                                                     World Bank-23713



IBRD 15550
S4,       NOVEhiER iSBI
f_--     / f    >)n .                                                         LIBERIA
, 2->'' ~~~~~~LO FA CfOUN,TY AGRICUlTURAL
A  F R  IC A><'/                                          -
,LIBERIA                                   .                              -  DEVELOFMENT PROJECT, PHASE II
-      'I Vohu                     'UE<ym 
''              -               I; fiFi                                         LOF   COUNTY7  AGiULUA
} . <- {'<i ~~~~G UV, N1 E A
L O F A 4''S6<
S I ER  A                7 c                      h/NT Y               I 57                            O2epMX V
L E} C  N- E                                                                                                                         b- d-   ;        D    4Su2ELf~~
MANO P AIO    0 R A N D                                                                          3A1,UE                            P-
-WO,5R-k ,,,S '~
OOKE/TS'OST    1(               / S      ,f   .k                      ci 0bro    ._            g            -oe
CA~~~~Mosh C1TA AGRI47C 3ULNTUA  REEAC  ISTITUT\\EWF 7                                                              C  0  A  S'hL  T
,  PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                Kbi.-                      //?                          >0            (      c0UN>  
- PAVED ROADS 
LOOSE SURFACE ROADS                              '                  NOE          ;zbraoe. 
---ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTiON.,/                                                                               I      ,       
-RAILWAYS -  -     4TY,    B>
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                            ,          -K/ -,                                               ,     
* AIRFIELDS AND STRIPS                     ~-                             r'                                                        9  3 v t '.   
M iN O R PO R TS                                         10   N         ..-OKp,           A
i    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                 .'I '                      S/       >       SPS
0  ONYCAPITALS                                          ./                           _ _e U         L4ND
COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                                                                                  A  N'COU    OA!
-.-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                         5      20    AD  eo         Sostor- Ji05
-  -RIVERS AND CREEKS                                               SIOMIEOeS a,UaC.yeo_
MiLES1`r,
9/p     A R E -_
I/00    TO'0090, 



