OFFICIAL       REDIT NUMBER 1242 LBR
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Lofa County Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUME7R 1242 LBR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   tA_-.Q    >              , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA (herdinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund (hereinafter called ADF) a loan (hereinafter
called the ALIF Loan) in an amount of FUA 8,954,600 equivalent
to $9,600,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and ADF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement havE
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Area" means the Upper Region of Lofa County of
the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated December 21, 1981 and February 19,
1982, between the Borrower and the Association;
(d) "ACDB" means Agricultural and Cooperative Development
Bank;
(e) "LPMC" means Liberia Produce and Marketing Corporation,
a corporation of the Borrower; and
(f) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ACDB pursuant to Section 3.03 of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to thirteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 13,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-3-
(c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Special Account in the National Bank of Liberia on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reason-
able costs of goods and services required to carry out the
Project and to be financed under this Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 hereto.
(d)   The Association shall, as of the Effective Date,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the currency
of the Borrower equivalent to one hundred seventy thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 170,000). Thereafter, at the request
of the Borrower, the Association on behalf of the 7orrower shall
further withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish
the Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of
the Special Account for expenditures for the Project eligible
for financing under this Agreement, but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of one
hundred seventy thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 170,000).
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine,
each such deposit after the initial deposit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account under the same Categories set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the
same respective amounts, as have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposits furnished pursuant to
paragraph (e) of this Section.
(e) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit into the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association in respect of each payment out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made to
pay the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(f)   If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expen-
diture or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal
from the Credit Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence


﻿-4-
furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, upon notice from the Association, and, unless otherwise
agreed by the Association, prior to any further deposit in the
Special Account, deposit in the Special Account or refund to the
Association an amount equal to the amount of such payment or of
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(g)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be
made when (i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower from the
Credit Account under Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, or (ii)
when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account, plus
the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association and of any special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions,
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 12,960,000, whichever
shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining amounts of the Credit for the Project shall follow
such procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association and shall be made only to the extent that the
Association shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in
support of the applications for such withdrawals that all payments
by the Borrower out of the Special Account and out of the proceeds
of the Credit were made on account of the reasonable cost of
goods or services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governLd by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify t-ne Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Associ-
ation a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrie
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be


﻿-5-
withdra-dr by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancel)Jed.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of
that Section.
Seztion 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
Januuary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1992, and ending
January 15, 2032, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Agriculture with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, adminis-
trative and financial practices., and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilitie,, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ:
(a) consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association in accordance with the prin-
ciples and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981; and
(b) a monitoring and evaluation specialist and a cooperative
specialist whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying
out Part D.1 of the Project: (a) furnish to the Association,
not later than October 31, 1982 a plan of action satisfactory to
the Association and carry out such plan not later than June 30,
1983; (b) provide its Cooperative Development Agency in the
Project Area with such funds, staff and other resources as
required for the purpose; (c) employ, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982 and thereafter, a qualified and experienced person
as Assistant Registrar of Cooperative Societies for the Lofa
County of the Borrower; and (d) review, not later than August 31,
1985, with the Association the progress made in the execution of
Part D.1 of the Project, and take promptly such measures as shall
be necessary or advisable as a result of said review.
Section 3.04. The.Borrower shall enter into a Financing
Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, with ACDB providi--
for the transfer to ACDB, for purposes of Part D.2 of the Project,
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1) of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall not change or
fail to enforce any provision of the Financing Agreement.
Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Part E of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30,
1982, furnish to the Association a plan of action, satisfactory
to the Association, in respect of the management and operations
of LPMC; and (b) promptly thereafter and not later than June 30,
1984, carry out such plan.
Section 3.06. For purposes of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall assign persons whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association to the


﻿- 7 -
followii.g positions of the Borrower in the Project Area: County
Agricultural Officer, Agricultural Manager, Financial Controller
and Comrercial Services Manager.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of 'se or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall 0   payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and prc edures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financ- out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿-8-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respons-
ible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.


﻿-9-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soor as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditor.s in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said separate accounts and
Special Account, records and expenditures and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) review with the Association any proposals to reorganize
the services provided by the Ministry of Agriculture of the
Borrower in the Project Area which may affect the carrying out of
the Project and shall give due consideration to the Association's
comments thereon; and
(b) take all action necessary to make efficient use of
the manpower resources oF the Borrower's agencies responsible
for the carrying out of the Project, including reduction of
such agencies' staff whenever necessary for their efficient
operation.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall operate the facili-
ties included in the Project in accordance with appropriate
administrative and agricultural policies and practices and with
due regard to economy.
(b) The Borrower shall cause such facilities to be ade-
quately inspected and maintained, cause all necessary repairs
and renewls thereof to be made in accordance with sound admini-
strative and technical standards, and provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities and services and other resources required
for the purpose.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Special Account has been opened;


﻿- 11 -
(b) that the Borrower and ACDB have entered into the
Financing Agreement; and
(c) that ADF has notified the Association that all condi-
tions of effectiveness of the ADF Loan Agreement have been ful-
filled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement if
such be the case.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the arrangements
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement are legally
binding on the parties thereto.
Section 6.03. The date , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Broad Street
Monrovia
Liberia


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              4221
Monrovia, Liberia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By $   Z OWC
Aithorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By       CA         ~&
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Agricultural                  3,600,000        100% of foreign
inputs                                        expenditures
and 90% of
local expen-
ditures
(2) Civil works                     260,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
and 70% of
local expen-
ditures
(3) Vehicles and                  1,460,000        100% of foreign
Equipment                                     expenditures
and 90% of
local expen-
ditures
(4) Consultants'                    690,000       100% of for-
services                                      eign expendi-
tures and 85%
of local
expenditures
(5) Staff salaries                3,860,000        90%
(Part D of
the Project)


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Operating expenses of         1,890,000        100% of foreign
the Borrower, other than                      expenditures
staff salaries, in                            and 90% of
respect of Part D of                          local expendi-
the Project                                   tures
(7) Initial deposit in              170,000
Special Account
(8) Refunding of Project             80,000         Amount due
Preparation Advance
(9) Unallocated                   1,290,000
TOTAL        13,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect


﻿- 15 -
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to increase agricultural
production and farmers' incomes in the Project Area.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Extension Services and Training
1.   Training of extension agents and provision of extension
services to farmers in the Project Area.
2.   Training of farmers of the Project Area at the Training
Center in Kolahun.
Part B:   Crop Development
Improvement of crop cultivation, including upland rice,
swamp rice, cassava, coffee and cocoa.
Part C:   Plant Production and Research
1.   Provision of coffee, cocoa, rice and cassava seed
material to farmers in the Project Area.
2.   Establishment of nurseries and seed gardens throughout
the Project Area to grow coffee and cocoa seedlings.
3.   Carrying out of a research program to diversify the
range of crops produced in the uplands area of Lofa
County and to improve the cropping systems employed by
farmers.
P4rt D:   Cooperatives and Credit
1.   Improvement of cooperative societies in the Project
Area, including training for cooperative managers
and construction of buildings to be used as sub-centers
by the cooperative societies.


﻿- 17 -
2.   Provision of agricultural inputs to farmers through
cooperative societies in the Project Area and the
financing thereof by:
(a) making medium-term loans to rehabilitate existing
farms and to establish new farms of swamp rice,
coffee and cocoa; and
(b) making short-term loans to meet farmers' sea-
sonal requirements;
all such loans to be made on the terms and conditions
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Part E:  LPMC
Improvement of the management and operations of LPMC.
Part F:   Schistosomiasis
Monitoring and control of Schistosomiasis organisms in
swamp areas of the Project Area.
Part G:  Land Planning, Road Construction, Wells, Latrines
1.   Surveying, designing and laying out irrigation and
drainage works for swamp rice, selection of areas
suitable for growing coffee and cocoa, and selection of
location of farm access tracks.
2.   Construction or upgradinj,,, of about 170 kilometers of
feeder roads and of about 60 kilometers of farm access
tracks, and maintenance of about 600 kilometers of
existing feeder roads.
3.   Construction of about 160 wells in villages and of about
100 village latrines.
Part H:  Vehicles and Equipment
Acquisition of vehicles and equipment required for purposes
of the Project.


﻿- 18 -
Part I:   Studies
Feasibility studies for purposes of developing the agri-
cultural sector of the Borrover
Part J:   Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation of the carrying out of the other
Parts of the Project and establishment and operation of a Central
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit for purposes of:
(a) developing evaluation procedures applicable to
all agricultural projects;
(b) coordinating and assisting in the monitoring and
evaluation of such projects;
(c) training of staff in monitoring and evaluation
of agricultural projects; and
(d) carrying out of field investigations for baseline
studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case m 7 be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and cocaining such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.    Equipment, vehicles or fertilizer shall be grouped so as
to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound
technical and procurement practices. Contracts for such groups
shall be for not less than $75,000 equivalent.
4.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Liberia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Liberia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Liberia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other impor- taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 21 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works, and contracts for equipment,
vehicles or fertilizer costing between $10,000 equivalent and
$75,000 equivalent may be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Association; provided, however, that,
in case no responsive bids are received, such contracts may be
procured as provided in paragraph 2 below.
2.   Contracts for goods costing less than $10,000 equivalent
may be procured by negotiated purchase after solicitation of
quotations from at least three suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $75,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿- 22 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿-23-
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and conditions of Financing Agreement
1.   The proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (1) of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be
transferred to ACDB in exchange for shares of comion stock
of ACDB.
2.   The Borrower shall require ACDB to use such proceeds for
purposes of Part D.2 of the Project, and, to this effect, to
invest such proceeds in the equity of cooperative societies
participating in the Project, such equity investment to
be in such amounts as the society concerned shall have lent
to its member farmers to finance their investment or seasonal
requirements.
3.   The Borrower shall require ACDB to enter into contractual
arrangements with each cooperative society participating in
the Project whereby the cooperative society will undertake:
(a) to make loans to its members on the following terms:
(i) short-term loans to meet farmers' seasonal require-
ments shall be repayable over a period of not more
than one year and bear interest at an annual rate
of not less than 15%;
(ii) loans for the development of swamp rice, cocoa
and coffee plantations shall bear interest at an
annual rate of not less than 12% and shall be
repayable over a period of:
(A) 3 years, including a grace period of one year,
in the case of swamp rice development;
(B) 12 years, including a grace period of five
years, in the case of cocoa plantations;
and
(C) 10 years, including a grace period of five
years, in the case of coffee plantations;


﻿- 24 -
interest shall be capitalized during the grace period in
all cases;
(iii) the amount of any loan shall not exceed twenty
times the amount invested in the cooperative
society by the member concerned;
(iv) overdue amounts shall bear an additional interest
rate of 2% per annum; and
(v) no member of a Town Cooperative Unit (TCU)
shall be eligible for a new loan from the
cooperative society unless the TCU concerned has
recovered at least 90% of all amounts due to the
cooperative society on account of loans made by
it to members of such TCU;
(b) (i) to open an interest bearing account with ACDB and
to deposit in such account all funds accruing to
the cooperative society from its participation in
the Project, including loan repayments made by
its members and proceeds of cash sales of agric-
ultural inputs; and
(ii) to pay to ACDB a commission of 4% of each deposit
made by the cooperative society in such account;
and
(z) to use any funds accruing to it from its participation
in the Project to repay ACDB's investment in such
society; provided, however, that, unless otherwise
required by ACDB after the review referred to below,
the cooperative society may retain earnings equal to 75%
of its equity less any amounts to be distributed as
dividends to its members, other than the ACDB, in
accordance with the cooperative society's by-laws.
4.   The Borrower shall require ACDB to review, not later than
December 31, 1985, in consultation with the Association,
the terms of repayment of ACDB's investment and adjust such
terms to the extent that the financial condition of the
cooperative societies concerned is not adversely affected.


﻿- 25 -
5.   Interest rates and mark-up margins of agricultural inputs
shall be reviewed annually with the Association and the
Borrower and, if necessary, -evised to reflect the costs of
loan administration and agricultural inputs.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198.
FORSECRETARY


