Report No. 797-EGT                                                                  FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Bank of Alexandria
Egypt
June 27, 1975
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited wvithout Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (EE 1) 5  US$ 2.56 or SDR 2.118*
1 US Dollar             = E 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)       US$ 1.70
1 US Dollar                 EE  o.587
*In the general realignment of currencies which occurred in February 1973
the value of the Egyptian pound was kept constant in terms of SDRs at
ZE - SDR 2.118. This was equivalent to an appreciation against the
dollar to LE = US$2.56, from its previous value of ZE 1 - US$2.30.
ABBREVIATIONS
BOA     -     Bank of Alexandria
IBE     -     Industrial Bank of Egypt
SSPIS   -     Special Services to Private Industrial Sector
GOFI    -    General Organization fbr Industrialization
CBE     -    Central Bank of Egypt



APPRAISAL OF
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SMMARY  ......................................................              i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ......................................                            1
II.    THE ENVIRON1'fENT  ..........        ........................                   1
A.    Economic Situation  .........................                            1
B.    The Manufacturing Sector  ..... .......... .                             3
C.    Financial Community  .....           .............                       4
D.    Cost of Credit in Egypt  .....            ...........                    6
III.    BOA'S  STRUCTURE  ..................................                            8
A.    Bank of Alexandria as a Whole  ....                  ...........         8
B.    Special Services  to Private Industrial
Sector  (SSPIS)  ......        ............ .9 
IV.    BOA's OPERATIONS  .................................                            12
A.    General               .....................................             12
B.    Characteristics  ..............           ..     .............          13
C.    Economic  Impact  ..............          ..     .............          14
D.    Evaluation of Performance  .........             .. ........            15
V.    BOA'S FINANCIAL STRUCTURE  ........................                            16
A.    Resource Position  ...........................                          16
B.    Quality of BOA's  Portfolio  ....                 ..............        16
C.    Financial Position and Performance                    ..........        17
VI.    PROSPECTS  ........................................                            18
A.    The Environment .....................-                                  18
B.    Prospects for BOA's Operations  .                  .............        20
C.    BOA's Resource Requirements  ................ .                         21
D.    BOA's Financial Prospects  ...................                          21
VII.    THE LOAN - OBJECTIVES AND JUSTIFICATION  ..........                            22
VIII.      RECOMMENDATIONS  ................................                             23
BASIC DATA
ANNEXES



LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Decision-Making Process for Industrial Investment
2. Private Investment in Manufacturing
3. Parallel Foreign Exchange Market
4. Organization Chart and Organizational Structure - BOA
5. Board of Directors - BOA
6. Highlights of Internal Policies and Procedures for
Commercial Banking - BOA
7. Organization and Procedures - SSPIS
8. Policy Guidelines for BOA's Term Lending
9. Interest Rates and Analysis of Deposits
10. Characteristics of Commercial Banking Activities
11. Audited Income Statements, 1971-1973
12. Financial and Operational Indicators - 1970-1973
13.  Audited Balance Sheets, June 30, 1971-December 31, 1973
14. Liquidity and Reserve Requirements in Egypt; BOA's Liquidity Position
15. Analysis of Investments Approved by SSPIS
16. Major Assumptions for 4-year Financial Projections - BOA and SSPIS
17. Projected Income Statements and Ratio Analysis
18. Projected Cash Flow Statements
19. Projected Balance Sheets
20. Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Credit



APPRAISAL OF
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SUMNARY
i.        This report appraises the Bank of Alexandria for a second IDA credit
of $25.0 million to finance productive enterprises in the private and public
sector of Egypt. The first IDA credit (No. 412-EGT), for US$15.0 million
which was signed in June 1973 and became effective on October 29, 1973 is
virtually fully committed. 1/
ii.       The Egyptian economy emerged from the October war with relatively
little physical damage, but real GNP registered a growth rate of only 3% in
1973 and an estimated 4% in 1974. Massive cost of living subsidies have
largely dampened the effect of world inflationary pressures but nevertheless
the domestic inflation rate was about 11% in 1974. In 1973 the industrial
sector accounted for about 21%o of GDP, 37.4% of total exports and about 13%
of total employment. Two hundred large and medium scale public enterprises
dominate the industrial sector and account for 75% of industrial output.
iii.      Following the October war, current economic development plans were
shelved and a 1974-75 Interim Plan put into effect to prepare the ground for
a 1976-1980 Plan. The interim plan is accompanied by a series of liberaliz-
ing measures to open the Egyptian economy and to attract foreign capital in-
vestment while encouraging greater domestic private investment and produc-
tion; they emphasize reconstruction, completion of on-going major projects,
particularly in the industrial sector which claims the greater part of in-
vested resources. The Government recognizes the important role played by
the private industrial sector, which it expects to help achieve its objec-
tive of a 9% growth rate in industry in 1975. BOA which is now the sole
institution that provides industry with term financing in domestic and for-
eign currencies is expected to help in implementing the Government's plan
for financing industry.
iv.       As an integral part of the economic management system, the cost of
credit is controlled in Egypt and is not used, per se, to allocate resources.
Interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and the risk on foreign exchange bor-
rowing - all of which have a bearing on the cost of credit - do not operate
in isolation from other controls. Revising the cost of credit upward would
1/   As of June 12, 1975, US$14.6 million had been committed; further commit-
ments have been suspended to allow for foreign exchange fluctuations in
sub-projects being financed under earlier commitments.



-ii -
have little positive impact on resource allocation if not accompanied by
other related changes in the system, such as price controls, and might dampen
investment initiatives, particularly in the private sector. In the proposed
credit, IDA funds will be on-lent to BOA at 8.0% and sub-borrowers are re-
quired to bear the foreign exchange risk. Considering the added risk being
assumed by sub-borrowers, it was agreed that only projects indicating a 15%
minimum financial rate of return would be submitted to IDA for approval. The
effective cost of credit to sub-borrowers will be 10%, a modest increase from
the 9.5% applicable in the previous IDA operation, in which, however, the
exchange risk was borne by the Government.
v.        BOA is a well managed and competent commercial bank; its portfolio
is sound and its financial position strong. Moreover, BOA has made consider-
able progress in developing a competently staffed term lending unit, the
Special Services to Private Industrial Sector (SSPIS), capable of appraising
projects and making investment decisions on a satisfactory technical, eco-
nomic and financial basis. Overall the objectives envisaged in the first
IDA credit have been achieved; the organization of SSPIS is basically ade-
quate and the response of private and public enterprises has been good. How-
ever, further development of the staff is needed and it was agreed that BOA
will use the services of technical advisers to SSPIS and that $90,000 of the
credit would be earmarked for training of SSPIS staff abroad and for techni-
cal assistance. A sum of $10,000 will be allocated for the purchase of cal-
culating and reproduction equipment to facilitate the work of the unit. In
view of the improvement in SSPIS' appraisal reports, and considering the rise
in prices since the first credit was negotiated (in Nlay 1973) an increase in
the free limit to $250,000 and in the aggregate free limit to $8 million was
agreed to.
vi.       In February 1975, a Ministry of Finance decree was issued for the
establishment of a new Industrial Bank which is expected to take over term
lending activities. The new bank is not yet operational, and it has not been
decided when it will be. The Government agreed that BOA will continue to
administer both the on-going and proposed IDA credits. It was further agreed
that adequate staffing and facilities would continue to be provided within BOA
for the IDA financed term lending operations, and that following any request
to transfer these operations, the Association would appraise the new Industrial
Bank before replying to any such request.
vii.      The Egyptian economy has many potentialities which, combined with
an accelerated disbursement from new capital sources, should help foster
rapid resumption of full capacity production and faster growth rates of the
order of 6.5% during the 1976-1980 period. These targets seem attainable
as the Government has been able to increase aid commitments substantially.
Planned gross investments by the public and private sectors amount to LE 158.5
million in manufacturing in 1975. In addition 121 joint industrial ventures
have been approved by the Government for some LE 54 million, excluding proj-
ects in the industrial free zone. The proposed IDA credit should enable BOA
to assist private enterprise in expanding its production thereby meeting one
of the Government's key objectives.



- iii -
viii.     The prospects for industrial investments and BOA's operations are
based upon the Government's 1975 Plan which projects GDP and industrial growth
rates of 8% and 9% respectively, including an estimated foreign exchange re-
quirement of $40 million for private industrial investments. BOA's pipeline
of projects in private and public sectors amounted to an estimated $50 million
at end 1974. As allocations to the private sector in the foreign exchange
budget have been eliminated since September 1973, BOA is now its sole source
of foreign exchange for investments. In view of this development, it was
agreed that at least 65% of the second credit will be used for private sector
investment.
ix.       Foreign exchange requirements for term lending by BOA are estimated
at $40 million between January 1975 and July 1977, $25 million of which BOA
expects to finance through a second IDA credit, leaving a resource gap of
$15 million. BOA needs to close this resource gap in order to assist in
meeting the Government's investment targets. The Government has approached
various foreign institutional sources of development financing to bridge BOA's
resource gap, and has further indicated that it would continue to pursue its
resource mobilization efforts.
X.        The basic creditworthiness of BOA is unquestionable and rests on
the quality of its commercial portfolio on which there have been only negli-
gible losses. The financial covenants of the first. IDA credit will be main-
tained, in particular those providing for a maximum term loan/equity ratio of
6:1 and for an obligation for BOA to monitor its liquidity position closely
and maintain a satisfactory balance between the maturities of its own obliga-
tions and those of the loans it makes. BOA's term loan to equity ratio will
be 3:1 in 1977.
xi.       BOA's demonstrated willingness and ability to undertake term finan-
cing activities while maintaining good standards, and its profitable and well
managed commercial operations make it a suitable recipient of Bank Group as-
sistance. The proposed credit of US$25 million is to be lent on normal IDA
terms and retains the basic relationships established in the first credit
between the Government and BOA.






APPRAISAL OF
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In June 1973, the Egyptian Government received a US$15 million IDA
credit, the proceeds of which were on-lent to the Bank of Alexandria (BOA) for
term financing of productive enterprises. BOA operates as a mixed bank pro-
viding commercial and term lending facilities to the private and public sec-
tors. A special unit within the bank appraises and supervises projects re-
quiring term financing. Funds from the IDA credit are virtually fully com-
mitted 1/ and additional foreign exchange resources are needed to provide
private enterprises, and to some extent public enterprises, with their invest-
ment requirements. Taking into account BOA's commercial orientation, BOA has
made substantive progress in developing its term lending capabilities but much
needs to be done before it can be considered to have a well-rounded develop-
ment finance activity. A continuing association with the Bank Group can be
of great assistance to BOA in developing the skills and techniques needed to
become such a term lending institution. This report appraises BOA and recom-
mends a second IDA credit for US$25 million. It was prepared by Messrs. Diop
and MacNealy based on the findings of their mission in November 1974 which
had the assistance of Messrs. Chanmugam and Haji.
Ii. THE ENVIRONMENT
A.  Economic Situation
2.01      An economic report entitled "The Egyptian Economy in 1974:  Its
Position and Prospects" dated September 25, 1974, has been distributed to
the Executive Directors.
2.02      Recent Performance.  In face of the political uncertainties in the
Middle East which culminated in the October 1973 war, Egypt experienced a
period of ups and downs in its real GNP growth rate. The economy emerged from
the war with relatively little physical damage but GNP registered a growth
rate of only 3% in 1973 due in a large part to disruptions in commercial ship-
ping which affected normal economic activities and the tourist industry. Real
growth in 1974 is estimated at 4%.
1/   As of June 12, 1975, US$14.6 million had been committed; further commit-
ments have been suspended to allow for foreign exchange fluctuations in
sub-projects being financed under earlier commitments.



2.03      An exceptional inflow of Arab funds totaling some $645 million
permitted Egypt to finance some of the direct costs of the war and to sustain
a widening trade deficit of $579 million in 1973, as compared to $394 million
in 1971 and $473 million in 1972. Exports, after having dropped in 1972,
rose by about 25% in 1973 reflecting mainly improved cotton prices. Similar-
ly, the level of imports rose by 24% in 1973 reflecting almost entirely a
change in prices of basic foodstuffs (which constitute more than 2/3 of im-
ports), rather than in the volume of trade. Despite these developments, the
balance of payments picture improved slightly with an overall deficit of $14
million in Egypt's balance of payments in 1973, compared to $31 million in
1972 and $153 million in 1971. In 1974, although total experts rose 65% above
the 1973 level, the value of imports more than doubled causing a trade deficit
of LE 599 million. In spite of increased Arab grants that amounted to LE 405
million (over US$1 billion) in 1974, the balance of payments picture was un-
favorable. The reopening of the Suez canal and the commissioning of the Sumed
pipeline, among other developments, are expected to increase Egypt's foreign
exchange earnings and help improve the balance of payments.
2.04      Price and production controls have been an integral part of the
Government's economic management and have been aimed primarily at maintaining
equity in income distribution. As a result of this policy, available re-
sources have been increasingly absorbed by consumption; defense costs have
been a heavy burden and private consumption, supported by cost of living
subsidies which have largely insulated consumers from international price
increases, has claimed a large share of remaining resources. Prior to 1973
inflation rates of 3-4% prevailed, but during that year it is generally ac-
knowledged that prices rose by 6-7%. In 1974 the domestic inflation rate was
about 11%
2.05      Economic Planning and Policy.  In Egypt's centrally controlled eco-
nomic system market forces have in the main been displaced by direct controls.
However, there is every indication that, since the October war, major policy
changes are underway as measures are taken to change the economic climate.
A further extension of the official parallel foreign exchange market (para.
2.22) in June 1974 has helped to mobilize more foreign exchange to provide
private sector enterprises with convertible currency imports, while the
passage of a liberalized foreign investment law on June 19, 1974, constituted
a major step in implementing the Government's "open door" policy. The crea-
tion of industrial free zones and the approval of a number of joint industrial
and banking ventures are an indication of the Government's determination to
change the investment climate.
2.06      Previous Egyptian development plans became somewhat obsolete follow-
ing the October war. The Government's Interim Development Plan covering the
period July 1974 - December 31, 1975 aims at capitalizing on the completion



of on-going projects and broadening the economic base upon which the next
5-year Plan (1976-1980) will be founded. Public sector investments rose from
LE 451 million in 1973 to LE 583 million in 1974, an increase of 29%. In
1975 a gross investment of LE 1,154 million is planned, of which LE 98.1 mil-
lion is expected to be in the private sector. Foreign exchange requirements
of the 1975 Plan are LE 467.7 million (LE 435.7 million in public sector and
LE 32.0 million in private). It is to support this investment program that
the Egyptian Government is seeking the proposed credit.
B.   The Manufacturing Sector
2.07      General - Following nationalization in the 1960's, the industrial
sector in'Egypt has been dominated by some 200 large and medium scale public
enterprises that account for 75% of the value-added by manufacturing. The
Ministry of Industry controls 123 of these enterprises which cover the main
industrial subsectors and are managed through six "general organizations":
food processing; textiles; chemicals; engineering; building materials; and
metallurgical. The large scale public companies generally have over 5,000
workers and average 4,100 workers per company. The private sector is esti-
mated to employ about 450,000 workers, i.e., about as many as in the public
sector, but they are scattered among some 150,000 establishments, of which
only 4,000 could be considered as factory type operations. Decision-making
is centralized in the General Organization for Industrialization (GOFI) which
is chaired by the Minister of Industry. All public sector industrial invest-
ments, and all private sector investments exceeding LE 8,000 are subject to
GOFI's approval. The principal function performed by GOFI in its evaluation
of applications is to determine whether the techniques are suitable, the
selection of equipment is rational and that the project fits into Egypt's
development objectives and priorities (para. 3.18 and Annex 1).
2.08      Industrial Strategy and Trends.  Egypt's industrial strategy centers
around (i) modernizing existing industry, (ii) increasing capacity utiliza-
tion, (iii) fostering greater exports, and (iv) increasing intermediate and
capital goods production. Currently, the emphasis is put on resource based
and heavy industries with high linkage coefficients such as chemical proces-
sing (fertilizers), iron and steel, and other metallurgical industries. In
1973 the industrial sector accounted for 21.6% of GDP compared to 30% for
agriculture, 37.4% of total exports and about 13% of total employment; in 1970-
1971 the share of industry was 23% of GDP. The decrease of the manufacturing
share in GDP is due largely to low capacity utilization stemming from over
design of units unable to export, and more importantly from lack of raw mater-
ials and spare parts. One of the measures taken earlier in 1973 by the Gov-
ernment to improve this situation was to introduce the parallel market foreign
exchange system which at the same time was expected to stimulate exports (para.
2.22 and Annex 3).



- 4 -
2.09      The gross value of manufacturing output 1/ is estimated at LE 1,652
million in 1973 compared to LE 1,570 million in 1972. In 1974 industrial out-
put grew by about 14% (in current prices) reaching LE 1,883 million. The re-
cent emphasis on heavy industry has not yet significantly changed the struc-
ture of output. Cotton yarn and textiles accounted for 33% and food indus-
tries for 33.8% of the gross value of manufacturing output in 1973; the re-
maining 33.2% was accounted for by chemicals (8.5%), engineering (8%), metal-
lurgical (6.6%) and miscellaneous industries. In 1974 roughly the same struc-
ture prevailed. During the same periods the private sector share of manufac--
turing output amounted to about 26% of the total.
2.10      In 1974, industrial exports representing 12% of the manufacturing
output expanded at a rate of 52% compared to 9% and 13.0% for 1973 respective-
ly, largely due to price increases rather than quantitative increases. Only
the private sector and textile and food industries in the public sector con-
tributed to this expansion. Export of manufactured goods by the private sec-
tor expanded by 40% from LE 21.5 million in 1972 to LE 30.2 million in 1973.
The share of the private sector in total exports of industrial goods thus in-
creased steadily from 16% in 1972 to 19% in 1973, and to 24% in 1974.  Public
sector exports increased by 38% in 1974 compared to 79% for the private. The
Government's policy is to widen the base of the country's exports by increas-
ing the proportion of non-traditional export goods, and to increase the share
of exports to hard currency markets (32% in 1972, 35% in 1973), as compared
to exports under bilateral agreements. In 1974, exports to hard currency
markets grew by 19% over 1973, however, their share of total manufactured
exports decreased to 29%.
C.   Financial Community
2.11      Egypt has a network of banking institutions which have been assigned
specific roles in providing services to the various sectors of the economy.
All commercial activities are divided among the four state-owned banks; Misr
Bank, Banque du Caire, National Bank and the Bank of Alexandria. There is
also a group of government-owned specialized banks for handling mortgages,
cooperatives' credit, etc. Only about 9% of the banking system's assets are
held by these latter banks.
2.12      In addition to the Government-owned banks, there are two other
banks which deal solely with non-residents and in foreign currencies. These
banks, the Arab International Bank and the Arab-African Bank, are in fact
off-shore institutions and are outside the jurisdiction of the Egyptian ex-
change and administrative controls.  They operate like merchant banks and to
1/   Excluding production of defense industries, cotton ginning, flour mills
and bakeries, pharmaceuticals, iron-ore mining and electrical produc-
tion. These industries accounted for 40% of total value of output in
1968 and 36% in 1971 approximately according to data available up to
1971.



-5-
the extent they do business in Egypt thev are considered as if they were lo-
cated outside the country. Any investment which they may make in Egypt comes
under the foreign private investment laws.
2.13      Industrial Finance.  Data quantifying the sources of industrial in-
vestment financing are not available. Public sector industry, which absorbs
90% of the annual industrial investment, is financed primarily from the Treas-
ury and from funds generated from their own collective operations. Some, but
not all of the working capital requirements, are provided by the commercial
banks.
2.14      Aside from self-generated funds, the private sector's sole source
of investment funds on a term basis in Egypt is the Bank of Alexandria for
both domestic and foreign exchange requirements. There has been no provision
for the private sector in the foreign exchange budget since September 1973.
Other investment funds are potentially available through repatriation by
Egyptian citizens and foreign investment but the extent of these sources is
not known. Working capital requirements are provided by the commercial banks.
Recurring imports by the private sector must, since September 1973, be pur-
chased through the parallel market system (para. 2.22).
2.15      In 1972, BOA's role as a commercial bank was modified when it was
designated as the private sector's sole source for industrial term financing
in Egypt. Other than the IDA credit, it has had no foreign exchange at its
disposal. Within BOA a separate department, with the title of "Special Serv-
ices to the Private Industrial Sector" (SSPIS), handles, among other things,
all term financing (see para. 3.10).
2.16      The banking system, however, is evolving and changes are already
apparent. Each of the commercial banks is either negotiating joint ventures
with foreign banks or has already entered into agreements with banks such as
Chase International and Barclay's International. On February 5, 1975, BOA
entered into a joint commercial banking venture with American Express Inter-
national. The new institution, the Egyptian American Bank, has a share capi-
tal of US$15 million subscribed 51% by BOA and 49% by American Express. These
arrangements are to facilitate commercial operations and in some cases may
result in the provisions of funds for long-term financing. Whether such joint
ventures, which expand the number of commercial banks in Egypt, will concen-
trate on new enterprises with foreign interests rather than compete with the
more traditional wholly Egyptian-owned enterprises, is a matter still under
consideration by the Government.
2.17      Iran and Egypt have jointly established a development finance in-
stitution, the Misr-Iran Bank, with headquarters in Cairo, and with a share
capital of US$20 million equivalent. Capital subscriptions are equally di-
v4ded among four institutions, BOA and the Misr Insurance Company for Egypt,
and the Bank Melli Iran and the Industrial and Mining Development Bank of
Iran. The new bank's objectives are to identify, implement and manage large
development projects in all sectors of the economies of Egypt and Iran. In
line with its international objectives, the bank's transactions will be car-
ried out in convertible currencies. The Misr-Iran Bank will be managed by a



- 6 -
twelve man board of directors chaired by an Iranian; an Egyptian vice-chair-
man will be the managing director. While this bank will also be a source of
funds for the industrial sector, it is expected to be complementary to BOA's
medium- and small-enterprise financing.
2.18      On February 17, 1975, the Government officially established a new
Industrial Bank that, in time, is expected to take over BOA's industrial term
lending operations, including staff and necessary facilities. The Industrial
Bank is not yet operational, nor has it been decided when it will be. During
negotiations the Government and BOA agreed that the responsibility for carry-
ing out the first IDA project cannot be transferred to another entity nor can
the proceeds of the proposed credit, to be on-lent to BOA, be transferred
without IDA's prior approval. The Government and BOA specifically confirmed
that they shall ensure that: (i) the posts of the General Manager and the
Deputy General Manager of BOA's Department of Special Services to the Private
Industrial Sector (SSPIS) and the post of the Manager of the Term Lending
Department of SSPIS shall continue to be staffed by the present, or by equal-
ly qualified and competent officers; and (ii) that the SSPIS Departments for
Term Lending and Follow-up shall continue to be staffed with suitably quali-
fied staff and support personnel in adequate numbers and shall at all times
have the necessary facilities and assets required for carrying out the Project.
Furthermore, should the Government wish, in due course, to transfer respons-
ibility for the end-use of both IDA credits to the Industrial Bank, a request
shall be submitted to IDA. It is understood that a full appraisal of the new
Industrial Bank would be required and would follow the Government's request
before IDA would be in a position to consider the transfer and the procedure
for amending the credit documents. It was agreed that IDA's advice will be
sought and that it will be kept informed of developments regarding the new
bank.
D.   Cost of Credit in Egypt
2.19      The cost of credit in Egypt is a function of controlled interest
rates, bank charges and Ministry of Finance charges. Depending upon the com-
bination of factors in a particular case, the cost of credit for medium- or
long-term funds ranges from about 6% where only local currency is involved,
to about 10%. For purchases involving foreign exchange, the rate of exchange
used is a further cost factor, since approximately 50% is added to the cost
of the foreign currency if the parallel market rate is applicable (para. 2.22).
2.20      Interest Rates.  Egyptian interest rates have remained unchanged
over a long period and individuals and institutions are prohibited by law
from charging interest in excess of 7% per annum. Banks normally charge
between 6 and 7% per annum (excluding banking charges of between 0.5 and
1% per annum) for all credits except cotton financing, for which there is
a preferential rate of 5-3/4%.  Interest rates are 2 to 4% on time deposits
and 3-1/2% on regular savings accounts. Other savings instruments, e.g.,
various governmental savings certificates, yield returns of 5% and are
exempt from income tax.



-7-
2.21      Considering that in Egypt's controlled economy, resources are al-
located without regard to interest rates, increasing the rate of interest
without revising the entire pricing system and improving the investment
criteria would have little impact on resource allocation and might well dam-
pen the enthusiasm for investment by the private sector. In the proposed
operation the Government will on-lend to BOA at an effective cost of 8% p.a.,
of which 5% is interest and 3% a Ministry of Finance charge. BOA's effective
relending rate will be increased to 10% composed of a 7% interest rate and a
3% Ministry charge, thus giving BOA a 2% spread on this operation. 1/ This
modest increase raises the effective rate charged by BOA from 9.5% to 10%
excluding bank charges.
2.22      The Parallel Foreign Exchange Market.  Since September 1973, the
private sector has been expected to obtain its foreign exchange resources
from the parallel market (Annex 3) particularly for recurring imports. From
that date, also, there has been no allocation for the private sector in the
Government's foreign exchange budget. Aside from the occasional purchase
of small items, funds available through this system have not generally been
used for the import of capital equipment. However, to the extent that it is
done, the cost in Egyptian pounds is 50% higher than purchases made at the
official rate of exchange, which is the rate used for projects financed with
the IDA credit funds available to BOA, and implies a cost of credit for long-
term funds of approximately 15% compared to 10% for funds available under the
proposed credit. Whether to further extend the parallel foreign exchange
market to include virtually all transactions in convertible currencies has
been the subject of lengthy discussions between the Government and the IMF and
the decision has been deferred pending the results of a more comprehensive
study of the effects on the Egyptian economy. Inasmuch as the official rate
of exchange is applied to all public sector investments, including two indus-
trial projects recently financed by the Bank Group, it is considered appro-
priate to apply the same exchange rate also in the proposed second IDA credit.
Both private and public sector investment projects will be financed from the
proceeds of the credit, and thus obtain foreign exchange resources at equal
cost.
2.23      Foreign Exchange Risk.  Under the first IDA Credit the entire for-
eign exchange risk was borne by the Government. With regard to the proposed
credit, it was agreed that the foreign exchange risk on subloans would be
borne by sub-borrowers. Although the sub-borrowers are usually well informed
entrepreneurs, they are not accustomed to assessing this risk and special care
will have to be taken by BOA to assure that project appraisals adequately con-
sider this element of cost. Agreement was reached providing that a minimum
1/   This adjustment reduces BOA's spread on the proposed operation from 2.5%
as under the first credit, to 2.0%, however, the income of BOA would not
be significantly affected since its spread on other lending is sufficient
to absorb such an increase with little effect on overall profitability
(paras. 5.10 and 6.12).



- 8 -
financial rate of return of 15% on investment projects would be required as
one of the precautionary measures in this respect.
III. BOA'S STRUCTURE
A.   Bank of Alexandria as a Whole
3.01      Establishment, Legal Status and Ownership.  There have been no
major changes in organizational structure, corporate status and policies
of the Bank of Alexandria since the issuance of the last appraisal report
in 1973. The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) remains the sole shareholder of
BOA's paid-up share capital of LE 3.0 million, denominated in 1.5 million
shares each with a par value of LE 2.0.
3.02      Organization.  BOA's organization chart is detailed in Annex 4,
including a brief explanation of the main functions of BOA's head office
departments in Cairo and Alexandria.
3.03      Board and Management.  In Egypt it is traditional that all direc-
tors are full-time officers of their organization and BOA is no exception.
BOA's board is normally composed of nine members. Following the retirement
on November 18, 1974, of Mr. Abdel Ghaffar as chairman, Mr. Mustafa El Bayoumi,
General Manager of BOA and Member of its Board, became Acting Chairman. The
Chairman and four directors are appointed by Presidential decree for indefi-
nite periods. Four members are elected from among BOA's employees, excluding
managers of general departments and above, by BOA's staff for a renewable
term of two years.  The Board is composed of experienced commercial bankers
(see Annex 5).
3.04      Decisions on all important matters, including major credit applica-
tions, are taken by majority vote during the Board's monthly meetings.  The
CBE does not have a representative on the Board and does not interfere in
day-to-day management.
3.05      Staff.  In 1973 BOA had some 3,665 employees of whom 692 were pro-
fessionals. The professional staff has increased by 33% in the last four
years and is generally of high caliber.
3.06      Functions and Procedures.  BOA's objectives basically remain the
financing of productive units in the industrial, and to a lesser extent in
the agricultural sectors, through loans and advances. Equity investments
are not a normal part of its activity, though BOA is now involved on the
Government's behalf in two joint banking ventures (paras 2.16-2.17).  BOA's
internal policies and procedures summarized in Annex 6 are well conceived,
emphasize prudence and are being followed in practice.
3.07      Criteria and procedures for processing credit applications and for
obtaining adequate securities for credit commitments are conservative and of



- 9 -
high standard. Procedures for follow-up of all accounts by head office
through monthly reporting by branches are effective and give management a
tight control over delinquent accounts. Decentralization of decision making
to the Branch Manager level is adequate and responsibilities seem well de-
fined and understood. (For details see Annex 6.)
3.08      Supervision by the Central Bank.  Under Egyptian law, the CBE has
supervisory powers normal for a central bank. In addition, in its capacity
as the General Organization for Banks, it also controls BOA's policy orienta-
tion and planning, approves the yearly budget and any important changes in
the organizational structure and internal policies and procedures.
3.09      BOA is required to submit to the CBE up-to-date statistics on its
liquidity and cash position. Audited year-end accounts have to be submitted
three months thereafter. The CBE also carries out, from time to time, a full
inspection of each Egyptian commercial bank similar to a yearly audit.
B.   Special Services to Private Industrial Sector (SSPIS)
3.10      Organization of SSPIS.  SSPIS is a service unit within BOA.  Its
function is to screen credit applications, appraise projects requiring term
financing, and to supervise approved projects. Hire-purchase and working
capital financing are major activities of the unit and provide an important
service to small scale industry. Direct term loans to the public sector are
also processed by SSPIS. 1/ All of the banking and financial operations as
well as the actual execution of the financial transactions and bookkeeping
are performed by other units within BOA. Term lending operations are govern-
ed by BOA's General Policy Guidelines that aim at maintaining sound appraisal
standards, diversification of operations and financial prudence criteria. It
was agreed that any amendment to these Guidelines would require the prior
approval of the Association (see Annexes 7 and 8).
3.11      The SSPIS unit is headed by the General Manager, Mr. Abdul Hamid
Kabodan. Mr. Mounir Shenouda is the Deputy General Manager. Both have had
a number of years experience in senior supervisory positions in the Bank of
Alexandria. They are mature, competent and respected bankers with an astute
business sense. Though both are relatively new to development banking, they
are progressively acquiring the necessary expertise and know-how. They have
developed good working relationships with the staff, the business community
and the Government.
3.12      SSPIS is organized into five departments each headed by a general
department manager. They are 82 professionals in these departments but 10
of them have been seconded to other institutions. A support staff of 66
1/   Mostly IDA financed term lending in foreign exchange, including some
local currency component. Public enterprises rely mainly on renewable
short-term overdraft facilities to finance investments in local curren-
cies.



- 10 -
(clerks, typists, messengers) is also assigned to the unit. The Department
for Contracts and Execution, with 23 professionals, is responsible for the
legal aspects of SSPIS' work including the security arrangements for all
loan contracts. The staff is experienced and competent. The Department
for Term Lending, consisting of 10 professionals, handles all of the ap-
praisal work on projects involving foreign exchange loans. Only one en-
gineer, a part-time senior engineering adviser delegated from the Ministry
of Industry's Industrial Control Board is available to the department. Plans
are being made to have access to other engineers from the Ministry of Indus-
try when needed in appraisal work.  The staff is keen and diligent but only
the manager has had any training and exposure to development banking prac-
tices. During the last six months (November-April 1975) an Adviser from
ICICI (India), partially financed from the IDA credit, provided on-the-job
training to the staff of this department (see para. 3.20). Further training
of staff is essential. Seven recently graduated recruits are expected to be
assigned to this department during the course of the next few months.
3.13      The Department for Financing Private Industry and Artisans deals
exclusively with local currency loans which form the bulk of SSPIS' cperations
and essentially are a continuation of the former Industrial Bank of Egypt
activities. Present staff consists of 22 professionals and is to be augment-
ed with 3 new recruits. By and large, the work of the group is progressing
well but up to the present the focus of its operations has been on the client's
financial creditworthiness and stability of the security offered.
3.14      The Department for Follow-Up was only recently established as a
separate group and presently has 11 professional staff including an inexpe-
rienced engineer. At the moment, almost all its work is confined to local
currency loans. Evidence indicates that the follow up of local currency
loan operations is regular and well supervised. Five new recruits are ex-
pected to join this department to assist in the supervision of the IDA-
financed operations.
3.15      The Department for Borrowing deals with matters pertaining to bor-
rowings made by BOA for SSPIS' operations and at the present has a skeletorn
staff which maintains statistics related to the IDA credit.
3.16      As detailed above, about 15 recruits are expected to join SSPIS in
the coming months. They are mostly inexperienced graduates with degrees in
accounting, commerce and economics. As for engineers, all appointments of
those seeking employment in the public sector require approval by the Gov-
ernment who decides on the priorities. Opportunities for professional ad-
vancement in the banking service are limited when compared with attractive
potentialities elsewhere in Government and in the private sector. There
does not seem to be much SSPIS can do in the prevailing circumstances except
to make do with part-time delegation and to hire consultants.
3.17      Training.  Training of staff in development banking practices is
recognized by management to be the single most important item requiring con-
certed and concentrated attention. There is a limit to what can be accom-
plished in a given time because only a few of the staff are sufficiently



-1 1 -
fluent in English to participate directly. English language training has been
instituted and in time will enhance the chances of BOA staff to attend EDI
courses ane participate in on-the-job training visits to other institutions.
There is also need for the senior staff to be exposed to management and ope-
rational practices in development institutions in other countries, to widen
horizons and to discuss issues and problems with their counterparts. Train-
ing outside Egypt involves foreign exchange as does the hiring of technical
assistance. Since BOA needs to do both, the proposed credit provides up to
US$90,000 equivalent for such purposes. It was agreed that BOA will prepare
and implement a program for the training of the staff of SSPIS in development
banking practices and project appraisal and supervision. It was further
agreed that the program, to be submitted for comments to the Association no
later than December 31, 1975, also includes the services of a technical
advisor or consultants to be selected by BOA after consultation with IDA.
3.18      Procedures.  Anv investment proposal requiring capital goods im-
ports, whether public or private, must be approved by the GOFI. Proposed
public sector projects undergo a relatively detailed evaluation and appraisal
by GOFI, which prior to approval, thoroughly reviews the suitability and ap-
propriateness of the proposal and of the equipment to be imported; these proj-
ects are then discussed between the sponsoring public sector company, GOFI and
BOA. In the case of private sector projects, SSPIS, during the screening and
pre-appraisal stage, reviews with the sponsor the feasibility of the project
and the suitability of the process and equipment to be imported. The project
is then submitted to the GOFI which after reviewing the project's economic
suitability and its rationale for the particular choice of equipment either
rejects or gives its approval. Thus it is only after GOFI has approved an
investment proposal that SSPIS undertakes its detailed appraisal of a project.
3.19      The quality of SSPIS's appraisal work has improved significantly
over the past year and a half. The shift in focus from the narrow aspects of
financial creditworthiness and adequacy of security in evaluating the appro-
priateness of a loan is gradually moving forward to a more meaningful evalua-
tion and assessment of the technical, financial and economic viability of
projects. There is, however, considerable room for improvement in the use of
the techniques, and in the systematic assessment of the technical suitability
of projects. Though SSPIS lacks experienced engineers on its permanent staff
as discussed in para. 3.12, it has taken steps to secure the collaboration of
Government engineers. With the increasing level of activity, SSPIS is also
occasionally using local consulting firms.
3.20      In respect to the organization and presentation of appraisal re-
ports, much needs to be done although an improvement in this aspect of proj-
ect appraisals is now apparent owing largely to the assistance of the adviser
referred to in para 3.12. Continuation of technical advice is essential to
further progress and IDA has obtained assurances in this respect. Such advice
should also strengthen the economic work on projects which to date has been
the weakest part of appraisals. Qualitative considerations and overt indi-
cators such as employment generated and net foreign exchange savings are used
to justify the developmental contribution of projects financed, and in the



- 12 -
case of the larger projects attempts are being made to calculate an internal
economic rate of return along the guidelines suggested by the Bank Group.
Here SSPIS runs into difficulties in assessing or obtaining meaningful econo-
mic data from Government agencies, particularly as regards domestic and inter-
national prices of traded goods and this needs to be taken into consideration
when faulting appraisals. A market research analyst has been hired recently
and is attempting to develop the necessary sources of information. BOA has
also contracted in the past few months with a foreign commodities and capital
goods data service to obtain up to date information. In order to further
assist SSPIS in data processing associated with appraisal work, it was agreed
that US$10,000 will be allocated for the purchase of imported calculating and
reproduction equipment.
3.21      Procurement.  A sponsor who has secured financing for an investment
project must obtain an import license from various Government appointed De-
termination Committees which approve the procurement on the basis of satis-
factorv evidence that the particular equipment and supplier have been chosen
as to suitability and as to reasonableness of price based on international
competitive "shopping". The documentary evidence to be submitted normally
includes at least three offers obtained by one of the Government's Engineer-
ing or Trading Organizations which invite bids from at least two sources ots-er
than that recommended by the sponsor. The work of these Determination Com-
mittees was found to be thorough, and the procedures particularly stringent
for sponsors seeking untied foreign exchange funds such as those available
from the IDA credit. While this procedure serves as a very useful check, it
does not substitute for the appraisal work of the SSPIS staff whose independ-
ent judgment is required to be included in their reports (para. 3.18). These
procedures assure that purchases are made at the lowest evaluated price and
meet the procurement requirements of the Bank.
3.22      BOA's Disbursement Procedures.  BOA has a satisfactorily controlled
disbursement system which requires the authorization of the head of the Super-
vision Department for each disbursement. Payments for equipment and goods
are made upon presentation of normal documentation; invoices, bills of lad-
ing, etc., and are usually paid directly to suppliers. Costs of civil works
are reimbursed on the basis of the reports by the Supervision Department for
the work completed.
IV. BOA's OPERATIONS
A.   General
4.01      BOA, in addition to its short-term financing activities, also
engages in term lending to public as well as private enterprises. About
90% of BOA's loan portfolio outstanding on December 31, 1972 was composed



- 13 -
of short-term loans, advances and discounts; roughly the same percentage,
i.e., 91%, prevailed for 1973. 1/
B.   Characteristics
4.02      BOA as a Whole.  In 1973 BOA approved a total of 14,279 lending
operations for LE 175.0 million, of which only 60 amounting to LE 15.6 mil-
lion were for term lending; 5,529 operations amounting to LE 79.6 million are
classified by BOA as medium-term loans (less than 5 years). However, these
latter operations are for the most part overdrafts to selected public sector
enterprises, which BOA renews automatically when the borrower settles its ac-
count. This is done at least once a year. BOA's short-term lending opera-
tions averaged LE 11,200, compared to LE 260,000 for term lending operations.
The public sector accounted for over 88% of the loans outstanding in 1973,
but only for 1.6% (231 operations) of all BOA's lending operations. The
average size of public sector operations amounts to LE 670,000 compared to
LE 1,453 for the private sector. Public enterprises are the largest deposit-
ors of BOA and this enables the bank to make sizeable transactions with them
while holding on to a good cash cover as well as other security.
4.03      SSPIS Operations.  After the operational merger of IBE and BOA in
June 1972, and until the IDA credit became effective in late 1973, little or
no term lending was processed by SSPIS. Its activity was concentrated on
small-scale hire purchase and inventory financing.
4.04      During the period January 1974 - March 1975, SSPIS approved 706 ap-
plications for LE 39.5 million, of which 44 operations (or 6.2% of the total)
for LE 7.6 million (or 19% of the total) required some LE 5.9 million (US$14.9
million equivalent) in foreign exchange from IDA funds. While the average size
of SSPIS operations amounted to LE 55,991 ($140,000), the 44 IDA financed
operations averaged LE 173,340 ($433,000 equivalent) compared to LE 48,200
(US$120,000) for the 663 local currency lending operations. The size distri-
bution of IDA financed loans is, however, highly skewed towards large projects
since 67% of the proceeds of the credit went to four projects requiring each
more than LE 500,000; four other projects claiming 17% of IDA funds required
financing above LE 100,000. Hire-purchase and working capital financing
operations, with terms not exceeding three years, constitute 85% of the local
currency operations; in comparison, 93% of the IDA financed operations are for
terms of between five and twelve years. Thus the bulk of SSPIS activities
centers around financing of small scale private enterprises; there was no
approval of any direct term lending operation in local currency to the public
sector, except when IDA funds are involved.
4.05      Among the 44 IDA financed projects, expansion and replacement in-
vestments accounted for 38 operations for a total financing of LE 5.1 million,
1/   The unaudited 1974 financial statements do not provide a detailed break-
down of operations.



- 14 -
of which LE 3.8 million (US$9.7 million) was in foreign currency. Six new
enterprises were created and claimed LE 2.5 million, of which LE 2.0 million
(US$5.2 million) was in foreign currency. SSPIS approvals for the private
sector amounted to LE 3.5 million including LE 3.0 million in foreign currency
(US$7.5 million), distributed among 39 projects. Five public sector projects,
all expansions and modernizations, required a total SSPIS financing of LE 4.2
million, of which about LE 3.0 million (US$7.5 million) was in foreign cur-
rency. Thus, while IDA financing was evenly distributed, as agreed to, be--
tween public and private projects, the average public sector investment re-
quired financing of LE 831,000, of which LE 594,000 in foreign exchange ($1.48
million), compared to LE 89,000 and LE 76,000 ($190,000) for the private sec-
tor, respectively. The private sector also contributed a proportionately
larger amount of its own funds to finance investments than the public sector
did.
C.   Economic Impact
4.06      The industrial sector received 97.6% of all BOA financing in 1973
excluding loans to financial institutions; total lending to industrial public
and private enterprises increased from LE 130.3 million in 1972 to LE 147.7
million in 1973, i.e. by 13% as compared to a 3% real growth rate in manufac-
turing output in 1973. These data are some indication of the significant role
of BOA in financing industry in Egypt.
4.07      During the period January, 1974 - March, 1975, SSPIS approvals in
six industrial subsectors amounted to LE 36.4 million, LE 3.6 million in food
processing; LE 8.5 million in textiles; LE 4.0 million in engineering and
metal work; LE 2.9 million in chemicals; LE 14.5 million in leather and shoes;
LE 2.9 million in building materials. Thus, SSPIS operations are relatively
diversified and are represented in the leading export oriented subsectors, e.g.,
leather, shoes and textiles and in the key building materials sector. SSPIS's
IDA lending operations cover three major subsectors; building materials   6
operations for LE 2.9 million (38%); textiles - 11 operations for LE 1.7 mil-
lion (22%); food processing - 7 operations for LE 1.5 million (19i). Projects
approved by SSPIS and requiring foreign exchange are estimated to cost LE
13,851,800 (US$34,767,000 equivalent), of which BOA financing represented
LE 7,627,000 (55%) with promoters, mostly from the private sector, contribut-
ing the balance (45%). These projects, financed partially from IDA funds,
are expected upon their completion to generate 687 new Jobs, withi a cost per
job of LE 20,162 (US$50,608) a relatively high figure reflecting the predomi-
nance of expansion and modernization schemes, which in most cases did not
require any significant additional labor. The financial return on projects
requiring IDA financing above the free limit (viz, 88% of IDA commitments)
ranges from 15% to 33% and the economic return from 9 to 23 percer.t. Annual
export earnings to be generated by some 15 investments are estimated at LE 5.7
million compared to LE 5.9 million, the total foreign exchange investment fi-
nanced by BOA. These figures actually understate the export earnings capa-
city of all projects approved for financing by SSPIS as data are not avail-
able on the 662 local currency operations, many of which involve financing
of inventories to support exports to the bilateral trade areas.



- 15 -
4.08       SSPIS' major role in financing the private sector is supported by
GOFI statistics. GOFI issued 447 investment licenses for LE 20.0 million in
1973, 514 for LE 20.9 million in 1974 and 283 for LE 19.0 million during
January - April, 1975. Approvals by SSPIS, which usually lag behind GOFI
approvals, amounted to LE 39.5 million during the period January 1974 - March
1975. Adjusting the SSPIS approvals for working capital financing, estimated
at maximum 20% of approvals, SSPIS investment financing amounts to about 79%
of GOFI approvals during January 1974-March 1975 (see Annex 2).
D.   Evaluation of Performance
4.09       Overall the objectives envisaged in the first appraisal have been
achieved. The organizational structure of SSPIS is basically adequate, though
management's tendency to rely upon a few individuals does not take full ad-
vantage of the organization. The Government's strategy, which consisted of
creating a term lending window within a financially strong commercial insti-
tution seems to be working satisfactorily.
4.10       As of June 12, 1975, IDA has committed US$14.6 million, i.e., 97%
of the on-going credit, to finance 44 projects. The credit became effective
on October 29, 1973 and by June, 1974, about US$12.0 million was committed
despite delays in organizing and staffing the SSPIS. Subsequently, BOA de-
liberately withheld submitting projects because of the abrupt changes in
international prices and a desire to husband and spread the use of the IDA
credit over a longer period. The available evidence seems to indicate that
further increases in prices are likely to be marginal. Some of the sponsors
expect to finance increases out of their own funds using foreign exchange
available from the parallel market. Most of the IDA financed projects in-
volve expansions (additions, replacements, modernizations) and in many in-
stances the civil works are already completed or nearing completion. Con-
struction works in the larger new projects in the private sector are proceed-
ing according to schedule. The low level of disbursements, which amounted to
US$2.8 million as of June 12, 1975, was due primarily to procedural formali-
ties for the granting of the import licenses, and to long lead times on equip-
ment delivery. Although disbursements are low, the Association has issued ag-
reements to reimburse US$7.7 million to foreign banks financing equipment
ordered by BOA clients. Disbursements are now expected to move forward at
an accelerated pace.
4.11       In the first credit to BOA, the "free limit" was set at $100,000
and the "aggregate free limit" at $4 million. In view of the rise in prices
since the first credit was negotiated (May 1973) and the improvement in SSPIS's
appraisal reports, an increase in the free limit to $250,000 and in the aggre-
gate free limit to $8 million has been agreed to for the proposed credit.



- 16 -
V. BOA's FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
A.   Resource Position
5.01      Equity.  As of December 31, 1973, BOA's net worth as stated in the
audited balance sheet was LE 8.66 million including a paid-in share capital
of LE 3.0 million and reserves of LE 5.66 million.  As BOA follows very conser-
vative practices with regard to its provisions for bad debts and other contin-
gencies, its auditors are of the opinion that these provisions amounting to
LE 15.5 million could be considered, except for a very small part, a proper
general reserve of BOA. The unaudited 1974 balance sheet depicts total pro-
visions amounting to LE 24.8 million, and an estimated net worth of LE 9.7
million. Consequently BOA's net worth as shown in the balance sheet is under-
stated.
5.02      Deposits.  The bulk of BOA's resources are deposits originating
from the public and private sectors which in 1973 accounted for 67% and 33%,
respectively of all types of deposits. At the end of 1973, demand deposits
amounted to LE 148.4 million representing 55% of all deposits, and time depo-
sits amounted to LE 74.7 million representing 28% of all deposits. The re-
maining deposits of LE 45.4 million or 17% of the total were in savings and
cash cover deposits. BOA's share of all deposits in Egypt remained constant
at about 24% during 1971-1973. It is likely, however, that this proportion
increased during 1974 since BOA's deposits, excluding liabilities in "Banks
and Correspondents" grew by 28% in that year (see page 1 of Annex 16).  Time
and savings deposits constitute on the average a little less than 40% of all
BOA deposits (see Aknnex 9, page 2).
5.03      Term Resources.  BOA's term resources, other than its equity and
excess reserves, include a bond issue of LE 3.5 million redeemable in 1977,
and the first IDA credit of US$15 million. Local currency resources did not
pose any problem since the outstanding long-term local currency lending oper-
ations in 1972 and 1973 represented only 6 to 7% of total deposits. These pro-
portions are by far below the "hard-core" of BOA's deposits which may for all
practical purposes be considered term resources. In 1974, in view of a sub-
stantial increase in deposits the resource position should remain the same,
or become stronger.
iB. Quality of BOA's Portfolio
5.04      Provisions for "bad and doubtful" loans are made not only for the
full amount of such loans outstanding but also against the principal amounts
of other loans which, management suspects, may fall into arrears. In the past
four years provisions for possible losses, as a percentage of loans and the
eauity portfolio, 1/ averaged more than 4% and was 4.6% for December 31, 1973.
1/   Including guarantees.



- 1 7 -
The total amount outstanding in "bad and doubtful" loans was LE 5.2 million
on December 31, 1973 and represented only 2.9% of the total operational port-
folio. Provisions against these loans amounted to LE 5.0 million. Other
loans which were suspected of possible future arrears, but not considered bad
or doubtful, amounted to LE 68.8 million and provisions for these reach LE 8.1
million. A review of these loans show that 90% of them concern major public
sector enterprises. BOA holds adequately liquid securities on these firms,
including liens on inventories, physical assets and cash. BOA's actual losses
on all accounts in 1973 amounted to about LE 29,000. As for BOA's small equity
investment of LE 110,000, provisions totalling LE 34,000 are made against it,
which in the opinion of the auditors is not really necessary.  In the 1974 un-
audited balance sheet provisions for "bad and doubtful" loans amount to LE 15.2
million, i.e., 4.0% of total loans outstanding (including guarantees estimated
at about 50% of contingent liabilities). All indications are that BOA has a
sound portfolio and that more than adequate provisions have been made for pos-
sible losses.
C.   Financial Position and Performance
5.05      Financial Situation.  BOA's audited balance sheets and income state-
ments for the past four years are detailed in Annexes 11 and 13. As of Decem-
ber 31, 1973, BOA's assets have grown by LE 112.8 million or 67% in four years,
to reach LE 303.3 million. The loan portfolio outstanding registered a 79%
increase during the same period. This increase was financed mainly through
deposits, which more than doubled, and a rise in equity. In 1974 BOA's re-
sources were bolstered by parallel market related operations and its loan
portfolio almost doubled - thus total assets increased by about 45% reaching
LE 439.3 million.
5.06      As detailed in Annex 14 liquid assets must be maintained at 30% of
commercial banks' liabilities as defined by CBE. Banks must also maintain
a daily net cash balance with CBE equivalent to about 20% of their short-term
liabilities all-year-round. BOA's liquidity ratio stood at 37% on December
31, 1974 compared to 33% in 1973, well within the CBE regulations.
5.07      On December 31, 1973, BOA had contingent liabilities amounting to LE
134.3 million, including LE 78.0 million for letters of guarantee issued and
LE 36.2 million for documentary credits. Approximately 90% of BOA's guarantee
business relates to public sector enterprises where BOA is always fully cover-
ed by counter-guarantees of the General Organizations. For the private sector,
BOA restricts its guarantee business to the larger well known firms to which
it applies stringent criteria for acceptance. BOA's improved resource posi-
tion enabled it to increase contingent liabilities to LE 230.8 million in 1974.
5.08      Earnings Record.  BOA's earnings performance has been consistently
good measured by the financial results in the four-year period ending December,
1973. Overall, BOA has been operating within a comfortable 5% spread. Admi-
nistrative expenses were 1% of the average total assets in 1973 against 1.8%
in 1972. Net profits as percentage of average net worth have increased from
43.5% in 1970 to 62% in 1973. In 1974 BOA's spread leaped to 7.2% thus gen-
erating record profits. Profitability and operational indicators are shown
in Annex 12.



- 18 -
5.09      BOA's cash pavments averaged 85% of net profits in 1970-72 and
dropped slightly to 74% in 1973. Provisional results for 1974 show estimated
cash payments amounting to 85% of net profits. As appropriations of net pro-
fits are subject to Governmental regulations beyond BOA's control, it has
little leeway to increase the percentage of profits retained by the bank.
BOA's conservative provisions policies which have the endorsement of the
Central Bank mitigate the effect of the high payout requirements.
5.10      BOA's financial performance has been good and its financial position
remains strong. Provisions largely exceed any foreseeable losses. BOA's term
lending operations remain small relative to the size of its short-term depo-
sits (para. 5.03) and are well within the covenant in the Project Agreement
which requires consultations with IDA should BOA's outstanding term loan port-
folio equal six times the amount of its paid in capital and reserves. As of
December 31, 1974, the ratio was estimated at 1.7 to 1. Consequently any regu-
lations or special arrangement with regard to term lending activities are
still premature though the CBE may impose such limitations any time it chooses.
BOA's Guidelines for term lending (Annex 8) provide sufficient safeguards. It
was agreed that any amendment to these guidelines would require prior approval
by the Association.
5.11      BOA's current auditors, appointed three years ago, are Mr. H.,l.
Rhagheb, Senior Partner of Rhagheb, El Gamal and Co., and Mr. MI. K. Saleh,
partner of S. Barsoum and A. M. Abdel Aziz. The auditors' performance has
been satisfactory considering that our auditing requirements were designed
for the typical Bank Group-financed term lending dfc, and not for a commer-
cial banking institution of BOA's size and complexity.  The 1973 BOA Audit
Report was reviewed with the auditors and it was agreed that the presenta-
tion of the annexes to the 1974 report would be changed to better reflect
the mixed banking nature of BOA and permit a more realistic analysis of its
portfolio (see para. 4.02). BOA has indicated that there is no intention to
change the present auditing arrangements.
VI. PROSPECTS
A.   The Environment
6.01      The past performance of the Egyptian economy which was able to face
the conflicting requirements of a developing country and of a major war ef--
fort during the 1967-1973 period shows the potentialities of the country.
These include the size of its domestic market, the extent of its infrastruc-
ture, its technical and managerial experience in industry and agriculture
backed by a well developed educational system. Based on these potentialities,
and assuming accelerated disbursement from new capital sources to foster
rapid resumption of full capacity production, it is foreseen that real GDP
could grow at an annual average of 6.5% in the period 1976/1980.



- 1 9 -
6.02      The Government's recently revised 1974-1975 Interim Plan projects a
higher GDP growth rate of 8.4% in 1975 with a 3.8% increase in total employ-
ment; industrial growth is projected at 9% with a 3.2% increase in employment.
Public sector investment is projected to double from 12.5% of GDP in 1974
(11% in 1973) to 26.4% of GDP in 1975. Gross public sector investment in
manufacturing industry increased to LE 126.8 million 1/ in 1974 from LE 69.8
million in 1973. The 1974 actual public investment in industry far exceeded
the planned level of LE 83.2 million. Actual private investment in industry
is estimated at LE 37 million in 1974, which is higher than the projected
figure, in the 1974 plan, for total fixed investment of LE 30 million for the
private sector. The Government hopes to achieve its objectives relying upon
a dramatic increase in expected domestic as well as foreign financial resources.
The industrial sector is expected to play the leading role in future develop-
ment because of serious limitations on the expansion of agricultural output,
i.e., limitation on the amount of arable land. In 1975, roughly 20% of total
planned investments of LE 1,154 million will be in industry and mining as com-
pared to 4% in agriculture; public investment in manufacturing industry is
planned to reach LE 127.3 million while LE 31 million is planned for the pri-
vate industrial sector.
6.03      Foreign (private or public) investors are expected to play a major
role in the future, particularly in industry. As of March 31, 1975, 121 in-
dustrial projects with proposed investments of about LE 54.0 million have
been approved under the new foreign investment law. Since it is likely,
though not certain, that these projects will be joint ventures with the Gov-
ernment, it appears that implementation of public sector projects will suffer
less from a paucity of foreign exchange than in the past.
6.04      One indication of the prospects for growth of the private industrial
sector is the number of investment licenses issued by GOFI. The number of
licenses granted increased from 279 in 1971-1972, to 447 in 1973, and to 514
in 1974. The total cost of these licensed investments is estimated at LE 20.0
million for 1973 and LE 20.9 million for 1974; in the first four months of
1975, 283 investment licenses were issued for about LE 19.0 million. The
average cost of a licensed investment increased from LE 24,800 in 1971/72 to
LE 44,700 in 1973, and dropped to LE 40,700 in 1974. In 1975 investments are
averaging LE 67,000 reflecting both larger private sector projects and the
general price inflation of capital goods. BOA's growing role in financing
the private industrial sector is implicit in the 1975 Interim Plan, where
total requirements are estimated at LE 31 million, of which LE 16 million
($40 million) is estimated to be in foreign exchange.
6.05      The Bank's economic report foresees an annual growth rate of 9% in
industrial exports in 1974-1980 providing the private sector expands its ex-
ports annually by 30%. Such a target seems attainable judging from the past
1/   Excluding LE 10.6 million for balancing equipment and rehabilitations in
unutilized capacity; investment in the steel complex accounts for 46% of
this figure. Foreign exchange amounts to LE 44.4 million.



- 20 -
performance of private industry. Private industrial exports in 1974 registered
a 79% increase over 1973 compared to 38% in the public sector (see para. 2.10).
The Bank Group can effectively assist Egypt in meeting the export and invest-
ment targets by providing resources to BOA.
B.   Prospects for BOA's Operations
6.06       BOA Short-Term Lending.  BOA projects its short-term lending opera-
tions to the public sector to grow at an annual rate of 5% during 1974-1978,
and its lending to the private sector to grow at a 10% annual rate. 1/ Com-
pared to past growth rates these estimates appear to be reasonable. BOA's
operational portfolio averaged less than 10% growth rate in 1972-1973. The
private sector portfolio remained stagnant in 1972-1973 but grew by 12% in
January-September 1974 and BOA's management estimates that it will continue
to grow at an average annual rate of 10%.
6.07       SSPIS Term Lending.  SSPIS management estimated that total approvals
of long term loans would reach LE 8.4 million in 1974 requiring $17 million in
foreign exchange, and projects this figure to grow by only 5% in 1975 due to
staff constraints. From 1976 to 1978 approvals are estimated to grow by 11%
annually reaching LE 12.5 million per annum in 1978 of which $25 million would
be in foreign exchange. Judging from the pipeline of projects which were re-
viewed by the mission, the estimated operations are realistic.
6.08       The pipeline of projects at the close of 1974 may be summarized as
follows: (i) about 30 public sector projects, mostly for expansion, (ii)
about 100 private sector projects requiring an estimated $1 7-20 million. All
of the projects in the pipeline of private sector projects appear to have a
plausible basis for estimation of foreign exchange requirements--offers, pro-
forma invoices, letter of intention from suppliers.  Taking into account
likely increases in prices over the next twelve months or so, the private
sector pipeline may be realistically estimated to have a requirement of about,
$20 million in foreign exchange. Insofar as projects in the pipeline for the-
public sector are concerned, GOFI has approved each investment and a require-
ment for $30 million is indicated.
6.09       In the previous credit to BOA, it was agreed that at least 50% of
the proceeds would be used for investment in the private sector. Subsequent-
ly, however, the allocation to the private sector in the foreign exchange
budget has been eliminated and BOA is the only source of foreign exchange
for investment. In view of this development, at least 65% of the second
credit will be used for private sector investments.
t/   See page 1 of Annex 16 on Assumptions.



- 21 -
C.   BOA's Resource Requirements
6.10      As far as local currency lending operations are concerned, BOA will
have considerable resources at its disposal (para. 5.03). During the period
January 1975 to December 1977 BOA's total local currency loan portfolio is
estimated to increase by LE 130 million. This will be financed by LE 135
million in deposits, LE 4 million in retained earnings and by LE 4.4 million
from other internal cash generation. Term lending operations in local cur-
rency will represent 5.2% of total deposits on December 31, 1977.
6.11      SSPIS' prospects for term lending from January 1975 to July 1977
are such that the foreign exchange commitments are estimated at $43 million;
the uncommitted balance of the first IDA credit amounted to $3 million as of
January 1975. This results in a resource requirement of $40 million, $25
million of which BOA expects to finance through a second IDA credit leaving
a $15 million resource gap. BOA has not made a determined effort to seek re-
sources arguing that (i) the Government controls the allocation of resources
which might be available on concessional terms, (ii) BOA/SSPIS cannot point
to a history of meaningful operations since in effect they have been in busi-
ness for only about a year and most of their projects are under construction,
and (iii) that many sources which outsiders believe to be open to BOA are in
fact profit oriented and the rate of interest and terms are the same as other
sources in the international market. Nevertheless, BOA's financial require-
ments in the next two years exceed the funds that could be made available from
IDA, and BOA management needs to close the resource gap to enable it to assist
in meeting the Government's investment targets. The Government confirmed in
the Agreed Minutes that discussions are being held with the US Agency for
International Development, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
and the African Development Bank to provide funds to fill the gap, and that
it would pursue the mobilization of foreign exchange.
D.   BOA's Financial Prospects
6.12      The four-year financial projections of BOA are based upon the
assumptions detailed in Annex 16, and rest on the industrial business pros-
pects analyzed in paragraphs 6.02 to 6.05, as well as on the pipeline of
projects submitted to SSPIS. BOA will have a comfortable spread of about
5.5% on its overall operations. Net profits are expected to reach LE 7.8
million in 1978; net profits as a percentage of average equity will climb
to 66% in 1976 and decline thereafter to 60% as the weight of increased for-
eign lending is felt and administrative expenses grow considerably almost
doubling in 1977. BOA expects to increase the number of its professional
staff and to open more branches (particularly in the Canal Zone) in order
to face expected competition from foreign commercial banks. Provisions are
projected to decrease from LE 1.5 million in 1973 to LE 1.0 million a year
in 1976-1978. This course of action is dictated by the high level of accumu-
lated provisions which will increase as a percentage of loan portfolio from
4.6% in 1973 to 6% in 1978. Projected income statements and analytical ratios
are shown in Annex 17.



- 22 -
6.13      BOA's projected balance sheets and cash flow statements are shown
in Annexes 18 and 19. BOA's total term loan portfolio is expected to in-
crease from 5% of total assets or LE 15.6 million in 1973 to 10% of total
assets or LI 48.8 million in 1978. The share of IDA lending as a percentage
of total BOA debt would increase from 0.1% in 1974 to about 4.5% in 1977, and
6.5% in 1978 under present assumptions. The basic creditworthiness of BOA is
unquestionable and rests on the quality of its commercial portfolio which has
been demonstrated by the insignificant amount of losses actually incurred.
Portfolio quality is also bolstered by the accumulation of large provisions
resulting from highly conservative practices, by the high standards in BOA's
lending operations and by the stringent requirements of the Central Bank. In
the previous IDA credit, BOA undertook to consult with IDA as to appropriate
measures to increase the equity base should loans disbursed and outstanding
which have maturities exceeding one year at any time equal six times the
amount of BOA's paid-in share capital, statutory and other free reserves.
It was agreed to maintain this covenant in the proposed credit. Projections
for 1977 indicate that this ratio would be 3 to 1. An additional financial
safeguard in the previous credit documents obliged BOA to monitor its liquid-
ity position closely and maintain a satisfactory balance between the maturities
of its own obligations and those of the loans it makes. This safeguard is also
maintained in the proposed operation.
VII. THE LOAN - OBJECTIVES AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      For a considerable period of time Egypt was without a strong insti-
tution for evaluating, financing and supervising projects requiring long term
financing. This lack was particularly noticeable with respect to the private
industrial sector and led to the decision to liquidate the Industrial Bank of
Egypt and place the responsibility with BOA for developing a long term financ-
ing capability. In making an IDA credit available to BOA, which was followed
by a more than usual series of technical assistance measures and supervision
missions, the first steps were taken to develop the expertise needed to achieve
this objective as well as providing a resource-starved sector with foreign ex-
change. As indicated previously in this report, BOA and the special unit created
to deal with term financing have made considerable progress and substantially
increased their capability to handle such operations. Apart from its institu-
-ional progress, BOA has used the funds from the first IDA credit effectively.
:ievertheless, a continuing relationship with what is essentially a nerw term
lending institution is desirable to further its development.
7.02      Evidence is substantial that changes in policies have favorably
altered the investment climate in Egypt and that the private sector is res-
ponding with guarded enthusiasm. Requirements for foreign exchange for term
investment exceed the foreseeable resources and if the Government's targets
zre to be met the private sector in particular will be dependent on BOA for
financial support. The proposed IDA credit for US$25 million will fill only
part of this resource requirement but is being relied upon to sustain the
investment momentum in which BOA has played a substantial role.



- 23 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      BOA has demonstrated its willingness and ability to assume a term
financing responsibility. Financially, it is a strong institution and is a
suitable recipient for the support of the Bank Group. A credit of US$25 mil-
lion is recommended and will provide BOA the means to continue its lending to
small and medium-sized enterprises. Since the role of BOA will be altered by
changes evolving in the banking system, agreement was reached to provide for
consultation with IDA on any structural changes in BOA and for arrangements
satisfactory to IDA with respect to the administration of the credit and the
liability of BOA for repayment.
8.02      The proposed credit retains the basic relationships established in
the first credit, between the Government and BOA, and between BOA and its
clients, except that the foreign exchange risk would be borne by BOA sub-
borrowers. Furthermore, an adjustment of the relending terms between the
Egyptian Government and BOA as well as between BOA and its clients will be
made in such a way that the cost to BOA is 8.0% and the cost to users 10%, an
increase of 1.0% and 0.5% respectively, over the previous arrangements.
8.03      All of the financial covenants in the on-going credit were preserved
and require BOA to give particular attention to maintaining a sound liquidity
position and to consult with IDA on appropriate measures to increase BOA's
equity base if its medium and long term portfolio rises to six times the net
worth as stated in the balance sheet. The Government and BOA indicated that
concrete steps have been taken to seek diversification of BOA's foreign ex-
change resources and that the Government would pursue its mobilization efforts.
8.04      With respect to operations, an increase in the "free limit" to
$250,000 and an aggregate free limit of $8 million was agreed to. To provide
the foreign exchange required by BOA to finance training abroad and technical
assistance, as well as the purchase of some calculating and reproduction equip-
ment, an amount equivalent to $100,000 was earmarked. Appropriate assurances
were obtained from BOA that technical advice would be employed to help raise
the standard of appraisals. All projects submitted to the Association for
approval will have an estimated internal financial rate of return of at least
15% and 65% of the funds provided under the credit would be used to finance
private sector enterprises.






BASIC DATA
ON
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
I.  Year of Establishment   1957
II. Other Significant Dates
April 16, 1957     Establishment of Bank of Alexandria
July 1961          Nationalization of all banks in Egypt.
October 1963       Merger of the Import and Export Bank and Banque du
Nile with Bank of Alexandria
October 1, 1971    Merger of the Industrial Bank of Egypt and the
Savings Bank of Monsoura with the Bank of Alexandria
III.  Ownership            (December 31, 1974)
Paid-in share capital of LE 3.0 million (1.5 million
shares with a nominal value of ZE 2 per share) fully
owned by the Central Bank of Egypt.
IV.  Financial Position (June 30, 1971; December 31, 1972-1974)
LE Million
1971     1972     1973      1974  1/
Total Assets:                 183.0    269.5    303.3    439.3
of which
Commercial Loan Portfolio    71.6    155.0    159.4    260.5
Term Loan Portfolio            -        16.8     15.7    n.a.
Equity Portfolio               -         0.1      0.1       -
Equity                         5.7       7.9      8.6       9.7
Long-term debt                 -        3.5       3.5      3.5
V. Earnings Record lndicators
Profit before tax and
provisions to average
total assets                  4.3%      7.4%     5.3%     3.2%
Profit before tax and
provisions to average
equity                        150%      260%     180%     130%
Net profit to year-end
share capital                  90%     105%      170%     229%
Dividends paid to year-
end share capital              75%       89%     120%     195%
I/ Unauditecd



ii
1971     1972     1973      l97it
VI. Financial Structure Indic.ators                         -1-
Ter Loan/equity ratio (IDA Agreement)            -       -         1.8      1.7
Provision for possible losses as %
of loan and equity portfolio 1/               3.8%f      4.2%     4.6%     4-.0
VII. Oerational Indicators
Income from loans as % of
average loan portfolio                        5.1       7.3        6.5     8.
Cost of debt 2/ as % of
average debt                                  1.2       2.0        1.4     1.2
Spread                                         3.9       5.3        5.1     7.2
VIII.  Bank Group Loans and Investments
IDA Credit (Status as of June 12, 1975)
Credit No.     Date   Interest   Amount of  -Authorized                     Out-
Signed    Rate 3/   Credit      for Withdrawal  Disbursed   st.anding
(US$ miillion)
412-EGT      6-29-73   7.0%        15.0           14.6           2.8        2.8 J/
Inclludes guarantees.
D, nebt includes deposits of all types, other liabilities and borrowings.
R ele.nding rate between Government to BOAi includes 4-1/2% interest rate
aus 2-1/2% Ministry of Finance charge.
hi Excluding US$ 7.7 million in agreements to reimburse by IDA under various
letters of credits.
_1ENA/:C&3FC
June, 197f-



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Decision-making Process for Industrial Investment
1.        General.  Decision-making for industrial investment in Egypt's
public sector takes place at three different levels: (i) by the President
and the Cabinet, (ii  by the respective Ministries, and (iii) by the
General Economic Organizations and, to some extent, by the public firms
thermselves. Egypt has some 50 General Economic Organizations dealing with
the econorWy as a whole, of which ten are concerned with industry. These
holding-type organizations are under the overall supervision of their
respective Ministries. Public firms (industrial and otherwise) are, in
turn, under the guidance of their respective General Organizations. In
other words, these General Organizations act as links between public firms
and the Ministries.
2,        General Organization for Industrialization (GOFI).  GOFI is an
agency of the Ministry of Industry. GOFI has advisory functions in industrial
development and is in charge of coordinating the action of the ten different
General Organizations mentioned above within the framework of Egypt's economic
plans and of the yearly budget. The GOFI is responsible for carrying out
appraisal studies of all industrial sector projects, and plays an active
role in identifying and preparing new projects.  GOFI has a Board of Directors
representing the related ministries. The Minister of Industry is the
rhairman and day-to-day management is handled by the Vice-Chairman. GOFI
is divided into nine departments, corresponding to the different branches of
indastry,  Each department includes specialists in their respective technical
fields.  GOFI has a total staff of about 1,000 of which over 200 are involved
in the identification, preparation and appraisal of projects; its yearly
budget for research in the field identification of new projects is about
LE 1 .0 million.
3.        Public Sector Investments.  All public sector industrial investments
require approval by the GOFI.  A fairly detailed appraisal of the proposed
investment is carried out on the basis of a detailed report submitted by
the public sector enterprise including the appropriateness of the project
in the framework of government policy and plans.  GOFI's recommendations
are then submitted together with the source of foreign exchange to the Industrial
Control Board of the Ministry of Industry which checks out the investment
including budget allocations in terms of the foreign exchange quota, supply
and sources of raw materials, availability of utilities fuel and power,
market considerations and other control features. GOFI then approves the
investment. A Special Determination Conmittee considers the basis of
procurement of the imports such as competitive suitability and prices.
No imports are possible without the import license granted by this
Determilnation Conmittee.



i'.NmX 1
Page 2 of 2
4.       -For its own initiated projects, GOFI is also in charge of
following up the particular project thruughout the construction period
and during three months of initial operation.
A matter of special interest is the degree of freedora enjoyed
by the public industrial firms in using their owm cash-generated funds
for investment purposes. Normally, depreciation allowances, provisions
and allocations to reserves (the latter are predetermined by the Government)
are left to the firms. But profits accrue, by law, to the State (75%) and
the firmts employees (25%). The 75% of the surpluses accruing to the State
reportedly enter into an Investment Fund.  The Investment flund is apparently-
used as a balancing item in the budget, meaning that other sectors can,
and often do, benefit from the surpluses received by the Investment Fun(d.
Private Sector Investments.  Private sector investments over
LE 8,000 must first obtain approval from GOFI.  The approval is based to a
greater or lesser extent on the general suitability and appropriateness
of what is being proposed in relation to government plans, policies and
development objectives. The entrepreneur's submission (based on a
questionnaire) is reviewed by one of the specialized technical groups
within GOFI and a report submitted to the Committee for Granting Industrial
A.oproval which is headed by a senior GOFI official nominated by the Chairmanr
of GOFI and includes senior members from the various General Organizations
such as for Textiles, Chemical, Machinery, etc., as well as an official
from the Federation of Industries and Mr. Kabodan (General Manager of SSPIS).
The members of this Committee are appointed by official decree. This committee
is the critical entity in determining whether an investment proposal in the
private sector is to be approved on the basis of GOFI's recommen(iations and
justifications.  If an entrepreneur is dissatisfied with the Committee's
decision, he can appeal to a higher committee headed by the Vice Chairman
of GOFI and it appears that this has rarely occurred. The proposal (amended
and modified, if necessary) is then reviewed and checked by the Industrial
Control Board as in the case of public sector projects. The GOFI then
approves the project indicating the source of foreign exchange. The pro-
curement is approved and the import license is granted by the appropriate
Determination Committee--these Cormittees are set up by the Ministry of
Industry or other ministries depending on the nature of the import involved.
For most industrial capital equipment, the relevant committee is the
Engineering and Electronics Determination Committee of which Mr. Kabodan
is a member.  Mir. Shenouda, Deputy General Manager of SSPIS is on the
Artisans Detenrination Committee.  There are technical sub-coimnittees
for each Determination Committee, composed of experienced staff from
public sector enterprises, which review technically the merits, price,
timing, competitive character, suitability, alternatives, etc., of the
imported capital equipment. Based on this review and the foreign exchange
allocation for the industry or sub-sector, the Determination Committee
approves the procurement and grants the license. In the case of approval
by GOI against foreign exchange available fror the parallel market, the
Parallel Market Determination committee is the entity that grants the
import license.
EMENA IC&DFC
May, 1975



iARi'9. YCLF2-LIC OF EGMFP
Private Investment in Manufacturing
Approvals by General Organization for Industrialization
(LE '000)
1975
1971/1972                   1973                     1974               (January-April)
No. of      Total        No. of      Total       No. of       Total        No. of     Total
Sector        Projects   Investment   Projects   Investment   Projects   Investment   Projects   Investment
Spinning and
Weaving             66        2,299.(        49        1,575.0        69        5,118          68        5,576
Engineering
Industries        102         2,146.0      185         9,848.0      252         4,149         109        3,807
Metallic
Industries         13           589.0         5          141.0         9        1,068           5           321
Chemical
Industries         27           434.0       97         4,478.o       46         2,322          45        3,999
Food Stuff
Industries         48           542.0        57        2,033.0        89        1,173          38        1,208
Electric
Industries          8           221.0       14           314.0       29         5,723          13        3,536
Small Scale
Industries         15           683.0       40         1,602.0       20         1,381           5          520
Total          279         6,914.0      447        19,991.0      514        20,934.0       283       18,967.0
Average Investment               24.8                     44.7                     40.7                       67.0      h
Source:  General Organization for Industrialization
April, 1975
EPf,NNA/IC&DFC
June, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
THE PARALLEL FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET
Background
1.        In September 1973, the Government of Egypt announced the creation
of a parallel foreign exchange market where a premium of 50 percent for
buying and 55 percent for selling free currencies is paid over the prevailing
'oPfic-all" rate in the parallel market. The parallel market replaced the
restricted system of multiple exchange rates, including a 50 percent premiuim
rate for some transactions, which had existed since 1969 and were modified
in May 1972.
Main Objectives
2.        The two primary objectives for its creation were to:  (i) increase
the inflow of free foreign currency resources, particularly by tapping assets
held by Egyptians overseas, and by encouraging exports to free currency
areas; and (ii) make these resources available primarily to industry and
selected services sectors for increasing production, tourism and exports.
The Government's policy is designed to use parallel market resources primarily
for meeting import needs of the tourism industry and the private sector.
Since the creation of the parallel market, the availability of free foreign
exchange to the private sector has substantially increased. So far, the
authorities have discouraged the public sector industrial enterprises from
using the parallel market on a large-scale; some enterprises are, however,
allowed to import part of their inport needs through the parallel market
after a special case-by-case review.
3.        The major sources of the parallel market, are:  (i) remittances
by Egyptians working abroad (expected to be around 50 percent of total in
1974); (ii) receipts from foreign toulrists (about 35 percent of total); (iii)
exports of non-traditional items (i.e. excluding cotton, yarn, textiles, rice-,
fresh onions, garlic, potatoes, cement, and re-exports) both from public and
private sector; (iv) 50 percent of yarn and textile exports in excess of
official export targets; (v) transfers by Arabs and other foreigners except
:or those related to investments.
The major usages will involve primarily:  (i) imports of industrial
raw materials and intermediary goods, essentially for the private sector at
least in 1974 (forecast to total 70 percent of all uses); (ii) import of
tourism-related goods and materials; (iii) other invisibles, including com-
mercial and financial expenses, patent fees, royalties, etc. but excluding
shipping, insurance and government account transactions.
In 1973, receipts in the parallel market totalled LE 102.2 million,
nut of which LE 64.6 million were used leaving a "surplus" of LE 37.6 in
973 operations of the parallel market.  However, these figures include
transactions under the "o1Ld" system between January-August 1973.  Receipts
uLtier the new parallel market between September-December 1973 period were
-- /<95 while usage totalled LE 12.fJ _nd;cat-ng that only 40 percent of



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
available funds were used. Estimates indicate that during 1974 receipts
will total LE 1h3.4 and payments LE 104 million leaving a "surplus" of
LE 39 million.  While some surplus resources are necessary as a "working"
capital of the market (float), it is felt that the surplus is excessive
and at least partly due to the complex import procedures. (See parao 14)
Organization Set-Up and Procedures
6.        The primary responsibility for policy-decisions, recommending
changes, and reviewing the operations of the parallel market lies with the
Parallel Market Committee, which works under the general direction of the
Higher Committee for Planning of Foreign Trade.
7.        The day-to-day banking operations concerning the parallel market
are supervised by the Central Bank, as in the case of all foreign exchange
transactions. The Central Bank has designated foir commercial banks for
handling all banking transactions in this field: Bank Misr, Bank of Alexandria,
Banque du Caire and National Bank.
8.       The Government has nominated the Misr Import and Export Company
for handling all applications, whether private or public, concerning
imports through the parallel market. A special cell, the Conmercial Agency
for Parallel Market Operations (CAPMO), was created to perform this
function in the Misr Company. The cell works under general directives given
by the Parallel Market Committee through the Parallel Market Determination
Committee.
Import Procedures
9.        Private Sector.  The procedures applicable to the private sector
have recently been streamlined to expedite the processing of applications.
It is hoped that the time between the submission of application and opening
of letter of credit will be reduced from 2-3 months to 15c days.  These measures
are also designed to increase the demand on parallel market resources and
reduce the "Tsurplust" mentioned earlier.
10,       Although until recently the procedures took 2 to 3 months to com-
plete from application to approval, they have been simplified to reduce
time taken for the approval process to about two weeks. The major reform
concerns the role of the Industrial Control Board. Now the Board prepares
a list cf authorized imports for each private sector enterprise at the begin-
ning of the year. This list is sent to the Misr Company. As a result, the
MY isr 3orapar.y no longer refers indivi(tal import applications to the Ministry
of Industry. Instead, it directly approves the applications by referring to
the lists of approved imports.  Other steps in the procedure remain the same.
11.       So far, private enterprises submit their import requests twice a
-ear.  To simplify the procedures, it is planned that in future enterprises
siubritt their applications for annual import needs at one time. This wil]
recl.uce the red tape and permit the enterprises to plan their production more
effectively-.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
12.       Public Sector. Public sector applications are approved as a special
case by a special determination comTLt.tee and only when the allocations under
the Foreign Exchange Budget are considered inadequate and the imports of
inputS through the parallel market are not expected to adverse2y affect the
en.; prodaut prices to the consumer.  Thus the Determination Corwmittee no"
onl-v, studies t.he prices (as in the case of the private sector) but also
iet,ermnes the desirability of the import,
Recent Changes in the Parallel Market
1 ..      On June 1, 1974, the effective rate in the parallel market became
subject to change by a committee established for this purpose. However, the
Eg~,-tian authorities have indicated that the rate will not be reduced from
its present level in the near future. In addition a substantially larger
list of commodities was established which could be imported through the
narall'el market.  The commodities are mainly for "productive" purposes but
include items like frozen and canned meat and television sets of sizes not
nroduced in Egypt.
1 N.      As of September 1974, the closing balance in the parallel market,
account amounted to LE 75.8 million (US$ 128.9 million equivalent). Available
data for the period July-September 1974 show that receipts totalled LE 50.3
mriillion (US$85.5 million) while usage amounted to LE 37.3 million (US$ 633.
million) indicating that 74% of newly ava.ilable funds were used; in comparison
receipts under the newly created parallel market:during the September-December
1973 period were LE 29.5 million (US$ 50.1 million) while usage totalled
LH- 12.0 million or h0 of available funds. Data were not available to
ana;yze the reason(s) for the higher rate of usage during the July-September
197T  period.  It is speculated, howrever, that the June 197L expansion of the
list of authorized imports and the streamlining of the pro cedures for usi'.ng
the parallel market resources were the principal contributing factors.  In
spite of the higher rate of usage, however, the susurplus" of the parallel
maraket has doubled in nine months reaching LE 75.8 million on September 30, 1 9i.
:;rurces:  Bank Report:  The EgyptiaLn Economy in 197T  (Septerber 25, 1974) anr(
Ministry of Finance General Adbr-inistration of Exchange Operations -
Cairo - Nov. 197L.
4E 'A/T,C?,,,DFC
*-,iaxr 1 97



ORGANIZATION CHART BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
IPLANNING AND   L|                               SECRETARIAT AND|
| FOLLOW-UP    r                             mBOARD AFFAIRS
LEGAL              CHAIRMAN       L|ADMINISTRATION|
F                             LEGL BA  U I        AND ORGANIZATION|
PUBLIC RELATIONS
GENERAL MANAGER                            GENERAL MANAGER                            GENERAL MANAGER               GENERAL MANAGER
FINANCIAL AND                              CREDITS AND BRANCHES                      INSPECTION                     SSPIS
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS                                                                                                   (ANNEX 71
DEPUTY                    DEPUTY                                                   DEPUTY
G. MANAGER                G. MANAGER                                               G. MANAGER
(Branches)                (Credits)
i  ACCOUNTS  |      |  CAIRO BRANCHES   F           # SPECIALIZED SECTORS |    q   CAIRO BRANCHES
(  AUDITING  l     l   ALEXANDRIA                    STATISTICS SUPERVISION       OTHER BRANCHES
{ECONOMIC RESEARCH |      | UPPER EGYPT    rltFOREIGN RELATIONS 
{  BUDGETS       l                                        FOREIGN EXCHANGE|
FINlANCIAL PLANNING |p  
0
EMENA/IC&DFC
May, 1975                                                                                                          World Bank-9907



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
BOA's ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
The service and operational departments are grouped functionally as shown
on Page 1 of this Annex. There aresix general departments reporting
directly to the Chairman, and fourteen reporting to three General Managers,
excluding SSPIS (see Annex 7). The functions of the main general depart-
ments are summarized below.
A. Service Departments
1. Board of Directors' Secretariat
- Preparing memoranda for the Board of Directors and other major
Committees of the Bank, and following up on the resolutions
issued in connection therewith.
- Preparing draft decisions and instructions to be issued by the
Chairman, and following up on their dissemination.
- Analyzing memoranda and reports submitted by the Head Office
departments to the management and recommending appropriate
action thereon to the Board.
2. Department for Organization and Adninistration
- Preparing studies on the Bank's organizational structure.
- Participating in establishing and amending of work schemes.
- Preparing and updating training schemes and supervising their
execution; management of the Bank's training center.
3. Legal Departments
- Drawing up credit contracts and, their notarizatiQn.
- Representing the Bank in all legal matters and giving legal advice.
- Carrying out investigations and supervising the application of laws
and regulations affecting the Bank's business.
- Investigating client companies' statutes and legal status, and
giving legal advice on the ownership of securities.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
4. Department for Promotion and Public Relations
- Promoting the Bank's services and conducting its public
relations.
- Coordinating the recreational and social activities of the
Bank's personnel.
5. Department for Planning and Follow-up.
- Following up with the branches on findings of Inspection
Department.
- Undertaking studies on the internal working schemes with
a view to improving the Bank's services.
- Following up on general instructions concerning administrative
affairs.
- Participating in the prepiration of studies on the establishment
of new branches.
6. Departments for Financial Planning and Budgets
- Preparing the Bank's budget and analyzing its future resource
needs and their utilization; following up on implementation of
the budget.
- Preparing monthly financial position data and other statistical
data.
- Formulating policies fo-r increasing the Bank's savings accounts.
7. Departments for Accounts and Auditing
- Preparing the Bank's annual financial statements and keeping the
Central Accounts, Ledgers and Stati%tical Registers concerning
the Balance Sheet and Income Statement items.
- Keeping registers and analysis ledgers concerning the Head Office's
fin!ncial activities.
- Checking the daily movement between the branches.
8. Department for Economic Research
Preparing research studies on local and foreign economic matters
relevant to the Bank's operations.
Publishing a quarterly economic bulletin and an internal monthly
review.
Participating in the preparation of the Bank's annual report.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
9. Inspection Departments
- Inspecting the Branches and Head Office Departments to ensure
proper application of instructions, analyzing discrepancies and
proposing means of adjustment or improvement.
- Undertaking internal control by means of examining the accounts
and vouching the entries relating to past transactions.
- Undertaking a general audit of the Bank's operations to ensure
conformance with adopted working schemes.
- Participating in the study of internal regulation schemes and
examining proposals for their improvement.
- Carrying out spot checks and surprise inspections of branches.
The functions of the following Service Departments are
self-explanatory:
10. Department for Personnel Affairs
11.  Complaints Department
12.  Department for Premises and Supplies
13.  Security Department
1L. Medical Affairs Department
B. Operational Departments
1. Credit and Branches Departments
- Formulation of the Bank's credit policy and dissemination of the
necessary instructions pertaining thereto.
- Analyzing applications for credit facilities that are beyond the
Branch Managers' permitted limits, and preparing recommendations
for appropriate action and decision.
- Following up the adequacy of securities for extended credit
facilities.
2. Supervision Department
- Analyzing the financial position and financial performance of client
companies. (For public sector companies, the reports are sent to the
comparv itself, the supervising Public Organization, and the
Central Bank)



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
- Following up the above analysis with the client companies.
3. Departments for Foreign Relations
- Establishing and strengthening relations with foreign
correspondents, exchanging banking facilities with them and
following up the Bank's activities through them.
- Following up the implementetion of instructions, issued by
the General Administration for Exchange Control and other
authorities, relating to foreign exchange and foreign
trade operations.
DENA/IC&DFC
May, 1975



ANNEX 5
BANK OF ALE3UNDRIA
The Hoard of Directors
(Situation an of Deember 31, 197L)
I. Appointed Members
Name and Position            Age       Date &'>ode of Appointment   Previous Experience
Chairman - Vacant
vohamed mostafa               54        4.10.71 - Presidential         Central Bank of Egypt;
El-Bayoumi, General                           Decree of 1971          Manager (2 years)
Manager & Member of                                                   Bank of Alexandria;
the Poard, Acting                                                     General Mana6er 4 years.
Chairman
Mostafa Mohamed               51        4.lG.71 - Presidential          Bank of Alexandria;
Noureddin, General                            Decree of 1966          Taxation Department
14anager & Mer.ber cf                                                 Manager (2 years)
the Board                                                             Assistant General
Controller (2 years)
Assistant General
Manager (6 years)
Ali Mohaled Ali Hussein,    56          4.10.71 - Presidential         Ministry of Economy &
Genera: vanager &                       Decree of 1971                 Foreign Trade; Under-
Member of the Board                                                   Secretary Bank of
Alexandria; General
Manager and Member of
the Board since L.lC.71
Mostafa Mohamed               57        4-10.71 - Presiiential         Ministry of Economy
El-Missary,                                   Decree of 1971          and Foreign Trade;
General Manager                                                       UnderRSecretary Bank
of Alexandria; General
Mnagrr & yember of
the Board sirince 4.10.71
II. Elected Members
Shafic Abdallah Karam,        52        7.5-74                         lasr Spinning & Weaving
Manager of Credits                                                    Co., Barclays Bank
Alexandria Branch                                                    ,(DZC.O B;:Bank of
Alexandria; Sub-Ylanager
Alexandria Branch
El Sayed Fouad Mohamed       -43        7 5.7h                         Commercial Bank of
El Habachy, Manager of                                                Egypt.; Bank of
Branch Accounts Auditing                                              Alexandria; Sub-Manager
Dept., Head Office                                                    of Administrati9n Dept.
Halim Guirguis-Mansour,    .L7          7.5.7k                         Barclays Bank (D.C.O.).;
Manager of Accounts                                                   Bank of Alexandria;
Department, Cairo                                                     Controller of Adminiatra-
,timns.Department, Cairo
Mohsen Husseim Nosbi,         14        5 7.7h                         Barclays-Bank (D.C.O.);
Inspector, Head Office                                                Bank of.Alexandria;
Controller .of Building
.Department, Cairo
NB: These members are elected by the oqa_.es :of 4the :bank to represent -them
on the Board of Directors for to .years, accordig to the law.  BOA erployeeB
up to the level of Manager of a 4epartwent may :be candidates for election.
Managers of general departments and above are -not permitted to seek a seat
on the Board.
EMENA/IC&DFC
May, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Highlights of" Internal Policies
and Procedures for Commercial Banking
I. Credit Policies
1. Each credit application must be carefully analyzed, taking into
account various criteria set by the Head Office, to ensure that
the credit falls within the Bank's general credit policy. The
Bank does not engage in the financing of operations of a
speculative nature.
2. Judgments on the financial standing of the applicant are based
on information obtained from various sources, which must be up-
dated periodically. Client companies must provide periodically
financial statements of a nature and with a frequency to be
determined by BOA.
3. In the case of applications for renewals and/or increases of
existing facilities, special criteria are to be applied to assess
the results of the customer's accounts with BOA (movement of the
account; percentage of bills paid, unpaid or returned to customer;
value of goods delivered and value withdrawn; documentary credits
opened and documents negotiated, etc.).
4. Utilization of the credit facilities may under no circumstances
exceed the authorized limits unless a waiver has been obtained.
5. At present, the following credit limits apply:
Credit Limits            Sanctioning Power by:
1/                      2/
EE 200,000, of which EE 70,000 in blank   Chairman of the Board
LF 100,000, of which LE 35,000 in blank   General Manager, Credit Department
(Alexandria) and General Manager
in charge of Cairo Branches
EE 50,000, of which IE 20,000 in blank   Deputy General Manager, Credit
Department
LE 25,000, of which LE 3,000 in blank      Head of Credit Department
3/
EE 15,000, of which EE 3,000 in blank      Managers of Main Branches
1/ i.e. without legally-ifrorceable security.
T/ The Chairman may exceed these limits in special cases, provided that the
sanction is presented for approval at the next Board meeting.
3/ BOA's branch offices are classified, according to the volume of business and
territory and the population covered, into:
Main Branches  (3)       A Branches (25        B Branches  (13)
-     Branches    (33)   Offices      (3)      Agencies     (6)



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
Credit Limits                  Sanctioning Power by:
BE 7,500 - 12,000 (depending on seniority),
ot which BE 750 - 2,000 in blank            Managers of A Branches
BE 1,000 - 5,000, of which LE 750 in blank Managers of B and C Branches
LE 500, of which EE 200 in blank            Managers of B and C Branches
Offices and Agencies
6.  When accepting bills for discount and/or for pledge, satisfactory
information on the financial standing and morality of all parties
of the bill must be obtained. Bills must represent genuine
operations relating to commercial activities. Advances may not
exceed the margins of security set for the various types of bills.
7. For advances granted against merchandise, the Bank requires among
other things that:
a) The merchandise to be held as security is not of
a perishable nature, its prices are stable and a
reasonable period of storage is fixed according to
its nature.
b)  The Bank has effective possession and control of
the merchandise, or it is held by an independent
acceptable third party for account of the Bank.
c)  The Bank's charge on merchandise is absolute
against both client and third parties.
d)  The merchandise is insured against risks of fire
and robbery with benefits ceded to the Bank.
e)  The merchandise is valued at the lower of market
prices or invoice prices, and a reasonable margin
is maintained at all times.
8.  For advances to contractors, cession of ovntracts are merely
regarded as an indication of the source of payment; in such
cases the Bank normally insists on collateral as security.
Separate accounts must be opened for each contract ceded to the
Bank. Strict regulations are applied for immediate follow-up
with the customer and third parties concerned, in case any
delay occurs in the periodical payments to be made under the
contract.
9.  Except in very special cases, the Bank does not provide guarantees
for commercial debts.
1I. In the appraisal of applications for Letters of Undertaking the
following guidelines must 'be taken Jnto accountt:
a)  Adeouacy of              C`icnt's finaneial2 means to
justify anyr unsecu,'ed. e- on o.f the Lett,er
of 11ndertaeLng.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
b) The facility should be within the scope of prudent
banking risks (that is, not overlap with the risks
to be undertaken by the company).
c) The collateral advantages derived from the account
must justify the granting of the facility.
d)  The business in respect of which the undertaking is
issued should be and remain conoentrated with the Bank.
The Bank invariably insists upon a full cash cover whenever a
demand for implementation of the guarantee seems probable. In
certain 3ases a lower cover is accepted.
II. Head Office Controls over Facilities Granted
1.  Branch Offices must submit to the Head Office weekly (for Accounts
over IE 10,000) or fortnightly (for Accounts up to EB 100,000)
return sheets of accounts held with the Branch Office, commenting
separately on:
a) Accounts which at any time daring the preceding period
covered by the return have been in excess of authorized
limits.
b) Accounts which have been in violation of stipulated
conditions.
c)  Accounts for which limits have expired.
Returns on these accounts must present:
i. the maximum liabilities daring the period
at least favorable position;
ii.  the cause and expected duration of any,irregularity; and
iii.  the sources from which settlement is expected.
2.  Branch Offices must submit by the 15th of each month  a past-due
bills report, giving details on any bills discounted that are overdue,
including overdue interest and other liabilities outstanding in the
name of the discounter. At the end of each month a report must
be submitted covering bills taken for any individual drawee (or
maker in case of Promisory Notes) for amounts in excess of:
i. LE 1,500 for Main Branches
ii. SE 500 for all other Branches
These reports must include dletails on the total bill maturities
during the month covered by the return together with percentages
of unnaid or extended bills or of bills withdrawn byremitters or
discounters,



AN'TE X 6
Pa-ge 7470
1/
3. Branch Offices must submit semi-annually a full record of
customer accounts up to the aut,nhorized limit, indicating
sich aspects as:
a) Customer's name, occupation and capital
b)  Limits sanctioned and exp-iry dates
c)  Liabilities outstandling
d)  Security stipulated and margins under the limits sanctloned
e)  Nature of security actually held:  guarantees given by
third party (bills, statistics for past six months showing
total maturities and percentages unpaid or extended);
tangible security (merchandise and produce, properties
motgaged, stocks and shares)
f)  Rates of interest and corriLssion for all classes of
facilities
g)  Statistics of account for last six months and the previous
year
h)  Remarks relating to the account and its conduct; any
irregularitv in the account
Accounts below reporting limits are aggregated as follows
LE 2,000 for M4ain Branches
1E 1 ,500 for A Branehes
EE 500 for all other Branches
4. Bad and Doubtful Debts Reports:
Full reports, drawn up in accordance with specific guidelines, must
be submitted for each bad or doubtful account as of March 31 an,-
September 30, and at irregular times and on short notice, as notified
by the Head Office.
5. A Failure Form must be submitted to the Head Office for each client
who is unable to meet his obligations to BOA or who appears to be
in difficulty. This form is also submitted for any account where:
i.  interest is to be suspended
ii.  legal action is being taken or has been threatened
iii.  through error or omission, the Bank is involved in
actual or contingent losses or claim
iv. legal action is taken against the Bank
Liabilities for which a Failure Form is submitted are further
processed for liquidation.
l/ Accounts up to the limits on June 30, over the limits on December 31.
I~IEaTy' !9&75FC
M4ay, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
SPECIAL SERVICES TO PRIVATE INDUSTRILAL SECTOR (SSPIS)
ORGANIZATION A    . rROCEDURES
Organization
1.       SSPIS's organization has been approved by the Central Agency for
Organization and Management, as required by Egyptian law, and includes
five general departments as shown. on page 3. BQA's 83 branch offices are
also involved in SSPIS's activities. Term lending sections, under direction
of the branch manager in the main branches closely supervise term loan pro-
cessing in other branch offices.  Discret-onary limits on term lending are
summarized below (para. 5). Above the auLhorized limits, applications imust
be submitted to SSPIS for approval byr appropriate branches. All public
sector applications inrolving direct term leonding are handled by the head
office of SSPIS 4n Cairots Galaa Street Branch.
Procedures
2.        Applications for local currency loans are handled by SSPIS' General
Department for Financing Private lndustxy and Artisans, while in the case
of foreign exchange loans the General Department for Term Lending is the
responsible entity for appraisal.  The three technical departments in the
General Department for Term Lending make separate contributions on the
economic, technical and financial aspects of the appraisal but the
manager of the Credit Analysis Department h as final responsibility for the
appraisal report to be submitted for approval by the manager of the General
Department for Term Lending, who in turn submits reports with a recommendation
through the Deputy General Manager to the General Manager.
3.        The next step is a Managers? Committee comprising five managers
and the Deputy General Manager. This Committee weekly reviews applications
up to LE 100,000, and the Deputy General Nanager is authorized to approve
applications up to LE 50,000, of which E 10,000 in blank for term lending
to 12 years.  Up to SE 100,000 the General Manager can approve on recommenda-
tion of the Managers' Committee. Above =h 100,000 the Loan Committee is
empowered to approve the loan. The Toan Committee normally meets once a week
and consists of the General Manager and/or Deputy General Manager who is the
Chairman, the managers of the general departments and two senior BOA officers.
The Loan Committee makes its decisions by majority vote, with the Chairman
casting the deciding vote in case of a tie.
4.        All term loans over LE 100,000, and all term loans, irrespective of
amount, which raise BOA's total exposure in a single company above ZE 100,000
must be submitted for approval, together with the Loan Committee's recommenda-
tion,to the Chairman of BOA. Any proposed term loan, irrespective of amount,
which would raise BOA's exposu-e above LE 200,000,is to be submitted for
approval to the Board of Directors o` BKA.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
5.        Limits of authorization for term lending can be summarized as
follows:
Credit Limits                       Sanctioning Power by
LE 200,000, of which ZE 70,000 in               Chairman of the Board
blank
LE. 100,000, of which LE 35,000 in              General Manager  SSPIS
blank                                           for terms up to 15 years
S  50,000, of which LE 10,000 in                Deputy General Manager
blank                                           SSPIS for terms up to
12 years
LE 25,000, of which LE 3,000 in                 Managers SSPIS General
blank                                           DePartments "Small
Scale" and "long term"
for terms up to 5 years
LE 15,000                                       Managers Main Branches BOA
for 5 years
S  12,000                                       Managers "All branches for
5 years
II.  Management InformationSstem
6.   The General Manager of SSPIS reports periodically to the Chairman of
BOA's Board on investment decisions. Moreover, SSPIS has a system which
Dperates with the assistance of 130A's other departments to provide manage-
ment with (i) progress reports on disbursements for approved loans, (ii)
early identification of problem projects in BOA's term-loan portfolio, (iii)
mornthly reports on arrears, and (iv) appropriate feedback to SSPIS' Term
Lending Department of information gathered by the Follow-up Department.
EEMENA/ICKFC
Miy, 19?7"



BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Organization Chart SSPIS Unit (as of April 30, 1975)
GENERAL MANAGER
| A.H. Kabodan)
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER
(M. Shenouda)
GENERAL DEPARTMENT              GENERAL DEPARTMENT               GENERAL DEPARTMENT              GENERAL DEPARTMENT               GENERAL DEPARTMENT
FOR CONTRACTS AND               FORJTERM  LENDING                FOR FINANCING                   FOR FOLLOW UP                    FOR BORROWING
EXECUTION                       (G. Issaa                        PRIVATE INDUSTRY                (A.M. El Baga)                   (George Abdou)
(M.E.S.M. Ghazal)                                                AND ARTISANS
(23)                            (10)       (H.M. El Sennary)    (22)                            011)                              (6)
Legal Affairs and                Credit                         Small Industries                   Financial                        Foreign
Execution                        Intelligence                   and Artisans                       Follow Up                        Borrowing
(G. Assker)                      IA.A.A. Sayed)                  (Vacant)                          (S.M. Hamdi)                     (S.S, Erian)
Contracts                    Financial Appraisal            Equipment Financing             Recording & Statistics             Local Borrowing
(S. Hassan)                 (Vacant)            l           Z.A. El Fikky)                  (Vacant)                           (Vacant)
Legal Research                Economic Appraisal               Market Research               Technical Follow Up
(A. Murad)                   (W.F. Henein)                     (H.D. Moustapha)              (Ah. M. El Mehallawy)
Hire Purchase and
Pledges & Security               Credit Analysis               Installment Financing
(M. Safrat)                      (M.H. El Bittar)              (G. Sallah)
Total Staff:
Enigineering Adviser                                                                       Professional:   72
Liquidation                  A      p in)                                                                              Support:        66
(M. Filub)                                                                                                             Total          138
Note: Numbers under each general department indicate numbers of professionales and junior
professional staff.                                                                                                                                             0
EMENA/IC&DFC
May, 1975                                                                                                                                  World Bank-9906



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
GENERAL POLICY GUIDELINES FOR BOAts TERM LENDING OPERATIONS
From the Chairman of the Board of Directors to the Board
Discussions with the World Bank
In view of the preparations to commence official negotiations with
the World Bank for the purpose of obtaining a long-term credit from the
International Development Association (I.D.A), this Bank has to lay down the
principles governing its lending policies and financial administration of
medium and long-term loans granted by the Credit Department for Businessmen
and the Private Industrial Sector.* Following, for your approval, are the
proposed policy guidelines as approved by the High Commission of Administra-
tion during its meeting of April 23, 1973.
-irst:     Objectives
1. Support industrial production by financing investments
whether in the construction and development of new factories,
or in the expansion of existing factories.
2.  Study, in cooperation with the concerned governmental
institutions, investment procedures directed at meeting
social needs.
Seccnd:    Scope of operations of Long-term Lending
A. Area of Financing
1. Financing shall be limited to projects that
contribute to the economic development of the
country.
2. Financing shall be extended both to public and
private enterprises provided they have received the
necessary government licenses, and in accordance
with pre-Vailing rules and regulations.
B. Investment and Financial Policy
1. The Credit Department for Businessmen and the
Private Industrial Sector shall select projects
for financing on the basis of their economic,
technical, financial and administrative soundness,
and on the basis of their contribution to the



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
balance of payments of the country. The Department
shall direct its financing operations at the widest
geographical area possible.
2. The Credit Department for Businessmen and the Private
Industrial Sector shall try to finance various kinds
of projects in different industries.
3. The Department shall not extend credit for a pzoject
in excess of a certain amount of the total financial
requirements for the project, such an amount to be de-
termined by the Board of Directors at a later date.
4. Except in exceptional circumstances, the Department
shaUl not extend credit to any one institution in
excess of 25% of the paid-in capital and reserves
of the Bank.
5. In the case of medium and long-term loans, the
Department shall generally obtain securities or
other acceptable coflateral whose value covers at
least 75% of the value of the loan.
6. Medium and long-term loans shall usually be extended
for periods not to exceed 15 years, with repayments
commencing after one to three years.
7.  Borrowing Privileges:  Total borrowing by the Bank
of Alexandria shall not exceed ten times its share
capital. This excludes borrowing by the Bank for
normal commercial operations or for facilitating
transactions between banks.
Third: Other Assistance to Production Enterprises
The activities of the Department shall not be limited to extending
various loans to enterprises, but also to giving advice - when
requested - in administrative, economic and financial matters in
order to help raise the level of industrial development in the
country. For this purpose, the Department shall try to develop
the necessary expertise in these fields.
EMENA/IC&DFC
May, 1975



ANNEXE 9
Page 1 df 3
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Interest Rates on Deposits
1. Interest Rates
Under Central Bank regulations, all commercial banks pay the same
interest rate on the various types of deposits as follows:
Demand Deposits:         no interest, no charges
Time and Notice Deposits:
i) Private Sector:
15  -  30 days           2% per year
30  -  90 days       2-1/2% per year
90  - 180 days           3% per year
180  -   1 year           4% per year
i-) Public Sector:
All  periods             2% per year
Savings Accounts:
The interest on Savings Accounts is 3-1/2% per year. 1/ BOA also offers
a lottery system with a basic interest of 3% per year, and the possibility
to increase it to 4%.
2.  Analysis of Deposits
See following pages.
.I/Government announced on November 27, 1974, that the rate
will be increased to 4%.
EMENA/IC&DFC
May, 1975



BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Breakdown by Tye of         ,  PUblic Versus  Private Sector ILE millon)
Deeme  3,1972-1974
1972                                     1973                         1974
Type of Deposits          Public    Private    Total             Public      Private      Total             Total   %
Demand Deposits            97.72      23.00    120.72   49.5    I1.46          36.91      148.37  55.2      196.13   57.1
Time Deposits              62.53      15.13      77.66   31.8     58.80        15.90       74.70  27.8       92.75  27.0
Other Deposits  2/          1.19      21.94     23.13    9.5       9.08         9.07       18.15   6.7       20.00    5.8
Savings Accounts             -        22.38     2         9.2       -          27.26       27.26  10.3       34-48  10.)
TOrAL        161.44       82.245     a 2 8   100.0    179.34       89.14      268.48 100.0      343.36  1o0.0
Percentages                69.2%      30.8%    100.0%    -        66.8%        33.2%      100.0%
1/   Unaudited results - breakdown not available.
2/ Mainly cash covers against Letters of Guarantee issued by BOA.
EMENA/IC&DFC                                                                                                                 |3
May, 1975
0



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
Average annual net growth per type of deposit during the June 30, 1971 to
December 31, 1972 - 74 period as follows:
Type of deposits                    1971-1973         1973-1974
Demand deposits                39.5%                32%
Time deposits                  27.3%                24%
Other deposits        :      -22.0%                 10%
Savings accounts               27.2%                26%
Breakdown by Depositing &itity; as Decauber 31 (LE million)
1 9 7 I1/         1 9 7 2              1 9 7 3
Amount      %      Amount       %      Amount       %
1. Public and Private      112.4     66.2     136.0      56.5    139.6       53.9
sector productive
enterprises
2. Private small-scale      42.0     24.7      57.7      24.0     57.8       22.3
industry and private
individuals
i. Public sector general    3.5       2.1       4.1      1.7       3.6       1.4
organizations
4. Central Government        8.1      4.8      27.3      11.4     28.9       11.2
entities
5. Miscellaneous             3.9      2.2      15.4       6.4     29.2       11.2
Total            169.9   100.0      240.5   100.0    259.1       100.0
June 30
MENA/IDUDFC
May, 1975



ANNEX 10
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Characteristics of Comercial Banking Activities 1/
(June 30, 1970-71 December 31, 1972-73)
(LE million)
i) Portfolio outstanding by type of borrower
Type of Borrower             1970             1971            1972             1973
Amount    %     Amount    i      Amount    j     Mm.1..
Public and private
sector companies     143.3    68.9    49.5   69.2    130.3   75.8    147.7         84.4
Financial institutions  11.2      17.8    15.5    21.6     17.3   10.0       8.3       4.7
Public sector general
organizations          0.9      1.4      0.3     0.4     20.4  11.9       14.2      8.1
Private small scale       7.4     11.9     6.3     8.8       3.8    2.3      4.8       2.8
Total                  2.8    100.0            1.0    1718  100.0    17_.0    100.0
of which:  Public       54.2              48.6            150.9            154.6
Private       8.6              23.0             20.9             20.4
Total        =2                                1751..0
ii)  Portfolio outstanding by economic activity of borrower 2/
Sector                        1970            1971             1972            1973
Amount   %       Amount    %       Amount   %     Amount    %
Industry                 44.1    85.4      49.1  87.5       151.0   97.0   163.4    97.4
Agriculture               0.2     0.4       0.3    o.6        1.7    1.0      2.0     1.2
Trade                     4.9     9.5       4.7    8.4        2.5    1.6      2.0     1.2
Services                  0.8     1.5       o.6    1.0        0.5    0.4      0.4     0.2
Miscellaneous             1.6     3.2       1.4    2.5         -       -       -
Total                               -.- 1 iS-               1.57d   100.0   167.  00
1/ Including term lending operations of LE 16.B million in 1972
and LE 15.6 million in 1973, which have not been segregated.
2/ Excluding loans to financial institutions. Data for 1974 not available.
EMENA/IC&DFC
Januiry 1975



ANNEX 11
BANK OF A&LUIADRTh
Audited Income Statements (LE 000)
June 30. 1971 - December 31, 1972-1974
Unaudited
1971         1972  V      1973         1
INCOME
Interest on deposits                              643        3,647        1,199
Income from non-operational investmerts           64         1 718          631          957
1s2co        5,365        1,o30          957
Interest on loans and discounts                4,253         8,640       11,162       13,569
Commissions, fees and other charges             2,984        3.7           2,           4.734
Total Income                               8,523       17.581       15,387       19,260
EXPENSES
Financial Costs
Interest paid on deposits                       2,116        3,971        3,668        3,971
Interest paid on long term borrowings             -            -            105          105
Commission and fees                               -             5'          -             107
2,116 ~~~~37;73                  4,18~3
Operating Expenses
Salaries                                        1,493        3,250        2,014        2,198
Other operating expenses                          63            5           810        __971
>,13 4,104                   3     ,169
Operating Income                                4,275        9,453        8,790       11,908
Provisions
- for possible losses on operational              897        3,539        1,510        1,958
portfolio
- for other possible expenses                                  994          622
T,%t i,53i3               2,132        2,613
Gross Earnings:                                 3,129        4.920        6.658        9,295
Taxations Allowance                             1,353        1,763        1,556         2,413
Net Profit                                      1,776        3,157        5,102        6,882
Appropriation 2/
Legal Reserve                                      88          158          255           344
Other Reserves                                    178          316          510           688
Dividends                                       1,510        2 683        4 337         5850
I/ Cover June 30, 1971 - December 31, 1972
T/ Under Central Bank regulations, all commercial banks are required to allocate yearly
net profits* as follows,
i)  2% gross earnings to                 Nasser Social Bank
ii)  5% of net profit to                  Statutory reserve
iii) 10% of net profit to                 General reserve **
iv)  5% of paid-up capital to             Central Bank and Staff
v)  10% of rest (net profits minus      Central Bank to cover supervision
i - iv) to              and manageuent costs.
vi)  Rest (net profits minus i-v)        To be distributed between Certral Bank
and BOA staff as follows:
-75% Central Bank
-25% BOA-Staff***
*By law defined as Earnings miinUs (a) expenses, (b) depreciation, (c) provisions for bad
and doubtful loais and for taxation, net of write-offs.
*KThis percentage to be redueed to 5% when total equity exceeds 10% of total deposits.
***Broken down as follovs:
10% paid out in cash
5% kept in blocked account for local sfervces
10% kept in blocked account for central eervices.
The blocked accounts are kept with the Central Bank and can be used for staff remuneration
of firms which are in the construction period or are realising losses due to external
circumstances.
EKENA/IC&DFC
May, 1975



ANNEX 12
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Financial Performance (1970-1973)
A. ProfitabilitY Indicators                        Year of Operation
1970      1971      1972      1973
. Net Profit as S of Average                         31.9       46.3      62.0
Net Worth                              35       39         463        2o
. Esrnings before Tax as % of
kverRs,e Net Worth                    59.5      56.1      72.1      80.14
. Cash Dividends as % of Net
Profit                                85.0      85.0       85.0      714.1
*Cnah Dividends as % of Psi,
Value Share                           96.8      75.5       89.1h    126.6
*Book Vatlue Shsre as t of Par
Value Share                          270.2     287.2      263.1     346.o
Year of Operation                     13th       14th      15th      16th
B. Operational Indlators                                 Year of Operation
1970      1971       1972       1973
Gros. TcoinFe as % of Average
TotaLl Assets                                14.4      14.3        7.14       5.3
. Adrin. Exoer-es as % of
Average Total Assets                         1.3       1.2         1.8        1.0
Financial Expenses as % of
Average Total Assets                         1.4       1.5         3.4        1.8
Admin. Expevies/tAumber of Professional
Staff (In * 000')                           10.6      10.1        16.0       10.3
Dividends and Realized Capital Gains
as % of Average Equity Portfolio             1.2       1.4         2.3        3.8
- Income from Loans as % of Average
Loan Portfolio                               4.9        5.1        7.3        6.5
*Volume of ApprovalsAuNmber of
Professional Staff (In * 000')            1065.9    915.9    1211.1    1446.5
Cost of Debt as % of Average
Debt                                         1.3       1.2         2.0        1.14
Year Ehd Profeesional Staff                  519        544        653        692
C. Financial Struoture Indicators                        Year of Operation
1970      19i7        1972       1973
. Total Debt/rear Ehd Net 1krth               40.0      36.6         40.0       40.7
Long-ter-m Debt/rear Ihd Net
Worth                                       -         -          0.5        0.4
Debt/Equity (IBRD/IDA AOR)                   0.07       0.02        1.2        0.98
Provision for Possible Losses as    2/
a                                               % of Loans and Equity Portfolio           4.4       3.8          4.2        4.6
Interest Coverage                            2.6       2.5          2.3        2.5
Year Phd Total Assets IkEluding
Contingent Liabilities (in
S. million)                             463.3    453.2         624.7      773.4
. Year Ehd Total Assets Including
Comtingent Liabilities
(In $. sntlion)                         773.5    774.4        1076.8    1115.9
Year Ihd Shwre Capital and
Reserves (In  m. nillion)                12.4       13.3        18.1       21.9
i'Profit before tax and proivisims.
j/ Including guarantees
Janary 1975



AN. 13
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Audited Bjlance Sheets - June 30,  71, DecenAer 31, 1972-1974
1971      1972       1973       1974  V/
A3SES3
Liquid Assets
Cash                                        5,672    15,850     20,673     25,791
Central Bank: c/account                   67,349     36,800     59,657     64,497
73,021    52.650     70,330     90.256
Short-term Assets
Locul banks 2/                            16,049     27,173     21,542     23,944
Banks & correspondents 2/                  4,886      5,413     12,484     58,063
Temporary 7.,svctoot                      12,752    J14,002     18,260      8,536
of which:  (Governmest securities)       (9,257)   (12,521)   (12,677)    (6,844)
(other securities)            (3,257)   (1,581)   ( 1,200)   (1,694)
Sundry debtor.                            15,762      9.512     20.744     13,260
59.449    56,100     69,030   103,805
Portfolio Investments
Lons, advances, discounts                 71,650    171,848    175,100    260,520
of which: mediuo, tern a'                  _       (74,219)  (79,606)    n.e.
lung term                       -        l47)-j-1 .a
71,640   171,85     175,100    260,520
Equity investments at cost: 4/               -          100        111       -
Less:  Provisions for possib  lass
on portfolio investments         (12,778)  (13,730)  (13,160)  (15,217)
Portfolio investments (net)               58,862    158.218   162,051    2455303
Less: Other provisions i/                   -          -        7,8)   ( 137) *
Fixed Assets (net)                          1,295        563        565        564
Other assets                                 371      2,045      1,989        742
TOTAL ASSETS             1 382998    269,576    303.356    439.315
Contingent Assets
(customers' acceptance liability)         139,504    196,677    134,310    230,753
LIABTIES AliD EQUIY
Current Liabilities
D_ansd and short-term deposits            72,595    116,io8    125,423    146,V6
Foreign currenoy deposits  6/              4J43       4111        El0J 44    L
7F933    120,719T   136,73   Dr15
Banks-Correspondents  7/                    -          -          -        61,883
Time Deposits
Fixed (over 6 months)                     48,948     77,667     74,700    92,753
Savings accounts                          36,878     22,380     27,258     34,485
other Deposits                            27,143     23,131     18,147     20,ODO
92,969    123,178    120,105    141,237
Sundry Creditors                           5,570      5,651     22,242      7,482
Dividendo payable                          1,776      2,683      4,337      5,o0o
Long-term Debt
L,ng-trm burroswings                       -         3,500      3,500      3,894
Other Provisions and Liabilities
Provision fur staff pensions               -          -         3,517      3,678 *
Provision fur other contingencies          -          -         1,765      2,109 *
Other liabilities                          -         5,951      2,507      1,390
Equity
Share capital                             2,000      3,000      3,000      3,000
Reserves                                  3,745      4,894      5,660      6,692 *
Total equity                         5.7,5       7,894      8.660      9.692 *
TOTAL LIABIIITIES & EQUITY          182.998   269,576    3           439,35
(Liabilities on acceptance)              139,040    196,677    1345,10    230,753
I/ Unaudited results.  Items with an   are estimated.
2/ Time deposits in local and foreign banks. For 1974 parallel market accounts included
(epoArt prc.aeds can be held for sixr months).
3 Mediws-term pour mentoire onl,; actually renewable overdrafts.
Equity inestment from the former BE
5/ For deprseiation of dismellaneon  investments and asete.
3/ Customers' account in foreign currency (parallel market).
7 Mostly foreign exchange liabilities on opened letters of credit to finance parallel
market imports. See Ansex 16, page 1.
EsbENA/xC&DFC
May, 1975



ANNIEX 1i
Page 1 of 2
BAND OF ALEXANDRIA
Liquidity and Reserve Requirements in EMrpt,
The Bank of Alexandria's Liquidity Position
- I. Liquidity Ratio:
The Central Bank requires commercial banks to maintain net liquid assets
of not less thnn 301 of total outstanding liabilities, as defined below.  Banks
are required to show the ratio on the first and last Thursday and at the end of
each month.
BiUA's liquidity position
as at December
to Central Bank's Formual
Formula                                (LE oCO)
i)  Liquid Assests                                             1973            197T
1.  Cash                                                   4,509           8,55
2   Balances with Central Bank                            49,657          64,097
3.  Gold                                                    _               _
4. Uncleared effects                                      14,136          17,579
5.  Treasury Bills                                            20            -
6.  Bills discounted (when maturity does not
exceed three months, must bear at least
two commercial signatures)                             -              0,010
7.  Government securities and securities
guaranteed by the Government, valued
at the lower of market value or book value           13,330            7,501
8.  Due on banks/l                                        20,732          61 555
9.  Total Liquid Assets:  1-8                            102,38          159,997
10. Less - Loans guaranteed by above assets:
A  - From       C.B.E.                         -
B  - From       Commercial Banks
C  - From       Others                                          -
11.  Net Liquid Assets = 9 - 10                           102,38b         159,297
ii) Liabilities
12.  Checks, drafts, etc., outstanding                      2,531           3,20b
13.  Net due to banks                                       7,084          52,o88
14.  Deposits in local currency                           236,656         280,617
15. Un-cash covered value of letters of
guarantees issued                                    65,oh9           92 052
16.  Total liabilities = 12 - 15                          311,320         h27,907
iii) Liquidity ratio; Net liquid assets (11) as %               32.88%           37.22,
of total liabilities (16)
/1  Excess liquidity  deposited with the Central
Bank is excluded from liquid assets in the
computation of the ratio. The Central Bank regards
thess! funds as investments.



ANNEX 1 h
Page 2 of 2
II. Cash Reserve Reouirements
Commercial banks are required to maintain at all times an actual net
balance with the Central Bank equal to a varying percentage of the average
daily balance of deposits, duss to banls and checks and drafts outstanding.
The percentages, since 1962, are as follows:
Daring October                17.5%
During November -
January                15.0%
During February               17.5%
During March -
September              20.0%
The weighted average cash reserve ratio has been, therefore, 18.3%.  However,
in 197T the cash reserve ratio was uniformly set at 20.0, and for BOA tha
average for Dacember 1974 was calculated as sho.'m below:
Average Ratio DarigDecemberl9M
BOA Reserve Ratio according
to Central Bank Formula
LE$OOO
Average Balances with the C.B.                  65.,973.018
1. Total                                        65,97-3.o01
I.   Checks, drafts, etc. outstanding                 2,792.992
II.  Net due to Banks                                52,531.670
Deposits in local currency                     271,023.065
2.  Total                                      326,347.727
Average Reserve Ratio 1+  2                         20.22%
New Average Ratio (I + Average Foreign
Currencies in Egyptian Pounds)                   20.22%
EMENA/IC&DFC
May 1975



ANhEX 15
Bk! OF Aam
Analysis of Investent Approed by tb  SIS (January, 1974 - March, 1975)
Foreign Currency Department 1/        Local Currency Department 2/              SSPIS
TotalS
Xo.  Local      Foregn    Total           NO.        Amount                 No.       Amount
Type of Investment
Direct medius term loans    3     -           72.0        72.0      654        31,637.0                657        31,709.0
Direct long-term oans     41    1,682.00   5,873.0    7-555.0          8          266.0                 49         7,821.0
Total                44    1,682.00   5,945.0    7,627.0        662       31,903.0                706        39,530.0
Terms of Direct loans
I to 3 years              -         -         -           -         563        30,316.0                563        30,316.0
3 to 5 YearB              3         -         72.0        72.0       91         1,321.0                 94        1,393.0
5 to 10 years            34       227.0   2,337.0    2,564.0          8           266.0                 42        2,830.0
10 to 12 years            7      1,1455.         0    4,991.0       _              -                     7        4,991 o
Total               44      1,682.0   5,945.o    7,627.0        662       31,903.0                706        39,530.0
Size of direct loans
up to LI 15,999          13         -        122.0       122.0      298         2,044.0                311         2,166.0
LI 16,000 to LE 50.999    19       50.0      532.0       582.0      227         7,157.0                246        7,739.0
IE 51,000 to LE 100,999    4       32.0      297.0       329-0       74         5,925.0                 78        6,254.0
LE 101,000 to Li 500,999   4      263.0   1,009.0    1,272.0         52         7,975.0                 56        9,247.0
Above 501,000             4      1,337.0    3s985.0    5,322.0 o      1         8,802.0                 15        .142l4.0
Total               44      1,682.0   5,945.0    7,627.0       662        31,903.0                706        39,530.0
Purpose of Investment
-N w Enterprise           6       435.0   2,068.0    2,503.0        ILA.          N.A.
Expansion and re-        38      1.247.0   3,877.0    31i2h0        N.A.          NA.
placement
Total               44      1,682.0   5,945.o    7,627.0
Ownership af Enterprises
Public sector             5     1,182.0   2,973.0    4,155.0          -           -                      5        4,155.0
Private sector           39       500.0   2,972.0    3,472.0        662        31,903.0                701       35,375-
Total               44      1,682.0   5,945.o    7,627.0       662        31,903.0                706        39,530.0
Nationality of Recipient
Egyptian                 43    1i682.0   5,847.0    7,529.0         N.A.          N.A.                  -           -
Foreign                   1      '            98.0       98.0       h.A.          N.A.                  -           -
7otal               44     1,682.0   5,945.0    7,627.0
aeogra3hic Distribution
Cairo Zone               35     1,402.0   5,29s.0    6,696.o        392        26,689.0                427       33,385.0
Alexandria Zone          5        248.o      535.o       783.0       97         3,298.0                102        4,081.0
canal Zone                    -                -          -           a          340.0                   8          34o.o
Lower Eupt               1          -          9.0        9.0       154        1,469.0                155         1,478.0
Upper E4Pt               3         32.0      107.0      139.         11          11.0                  14           246.0
Total               44      1,682.0   5,945.0    7,627.0       662        31,903.0                706        39,530.0
Employment Generated
Nmber of Jobs           44                              687.0       N.A.         N.A.
Export Earnir4gs
(Lz 000)                15                            5,716.0       N.A.         N.A.
Sector
Foodstuff                7        182.0   1,298.0    1,480.0         78         2,149.0                 85        3,629.0
Spinning and Weaving     _          -                    -          114        4,996.0                114         4,996.0
Textiles - Gorments     11        155.0   1,513.0    1,668.0         66        1,824.0                  77        3,492.0
Eng. & Metl Worir        6       198.0      5840.       782.0      131         3,292.0                11o        4,074.0
Che;icala                8         65.0      574.0      639.0        50        2,249.0-                 58        2,888.0
leather and shoe         1         -          31.0       31.0       126       14,510.0                127        14,541.0
Printing                 2         -          65.o       65.o        21          383.0                 23           443.o
Tourism                   3                   58.o       58.o         7           226.0                 10          284.0
BojAdng ,mtarisle        6      1,082.0   1,822.0    2,904.O -o             -                           6         2,9014.0
Woodworking              -         --                    .29                   1,069.0                  29        1,089.0
Misceausous              _                                          _3         1,185.0                  37        1,185.0
Total               44     1,6I2.0   5,945.0    7,627.0        662        31,903.0                706        39,530.00
V1 General Department for Ters Lending handles all projects requiring fqraign echange financing from foreign financial
resource. (IDA, tC.), a ne D.Partaeft
2/ Omnercl Department far Financing of Priawte Ind1utir and Arbisanst handles all ProJeets requiring only local currency
financing; a carry-Or depament frm the old ID.
my, 1975



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 5
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Major Assumptions for four-year Financial Projections
Introduction
The actual (unaudited) financial statements as of December 31, 1974,
(see Annexes 11 and 13), show a major unforeseen increase in BOA's operations,
particularly with "tBarks and Correspondents". Additional resources from
Parallel Market 1/ accounts and operations helped BOA to increase its lending
for foreign trade operations that are normally financed by the National Bank
of Egypt (NBE). Since BOA finances private industry, the Central Bank of
Egypt tacitly permitted it to also finance some private foreign trade.
In 1974, the private sector shifted most of its foreign operations from the
NBE to BOA, in particular to get in the queue for foreign currency term
lending. BOA's management assumes that the increase in assets and liabilities
due to foreign trade activities in 1974 is temporary and warrants no changes
in the projected financial statements for 1975-1978. In view of the on-going
reorganization of the banking system, which involves the redistribution of
banking activities, this assumption appears reasonable.
A. Commercial Banking Activities
The commercial banking activities comprise all short, medium and
long term lending activities in local currency (including term lending in
local currency by SSPIS). The increases in interest rates on savings from
3.5% to 4%, and on time bonds from 5% to 6%, which were announced November
27, 1974 have not been incorporated in these projections.
I. General
No changes during 1975-1978 in the following regulationss
a) Interest and Commission rates as set at present by the
Central Bank of Egypt.
b) The cash reserve ratio set at 20.0%.
c) The liquidity ratio set at 30.0%.
d) The appropriation of the net profit of commercial banks
applied at present as follows:
2% for Nasser Social Bank (as % of net profit before taxes)
5% for statutory reserve
10% for the general reserve
5% of paid up capital as a first dividend to C.B.E.
(75%) and employees (25%).
10% of the rest for the supervision of the C.B.E.
The rest to be redistributed as a second dividend
between C.B.E. (75%) and employees (25%)
1/ See Annex 3 for details on the Parallel Market.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 5
e) Tax rates as presently applied: 40.55% for the income tax rate. 1/
II. BOA
1.  The financial projections are based upon (i) BOA's Financial Statements
as of September 30, 1974, and (ii) the 1975 BOA Budget figures approved
by BOA's Board 2/ and taking account notably of:
a) The expected increase in local currency loans and advances to
be used for purchasing of foreign exchange in the parallel market.
b) The expected increase in the level of short term financing needs of
public sector companies stemming from greater capacity utilization.
c) A higher level of customer's account in foreign currency (viz.
parallel market deposits).
2.  No retirement on bonds issued by the former IBE of LE 3.5 million
outstanding at June 30, 1972.
3. National loans due during 197h-1978, to be reimbursed by the State
at maturity.
4. BOA's deposits and loans are hereinafter projected taking into account
an expected redistribution of banking activities following the on-going
reorganization of the banking system in Egypt.
5.  BOA's deposits are expected to grow as follows by about 27% between
September 30, 1974 and December 31, 1978 at an average annual growth rate
of 5% in all types of deposits (except savings) based upon the 1969-74
average; savings are expected to increase yearly by LE 6 million from
1975-1978.
EE Million
ActuaI         rojections as of December 31
9/30/74   197J3/  1975    1976          1977     1978
Type of deposits
Demand             137.5    146.2    144.4  151.6        159.2    167.1
Time                87.2      92.8     91.7    96.3     101.1    106.1
Savings             31.5    314.5      37.5   143.5      419.5     55.5
Foreign Currency 1/   49.6    149.9    52.1    54.7        57,14     59.8
Other               21.6      20.0     22.7    23.9      25.1      26.3
Total              327 .1I   31343.4    3T8.L   370.0    392.3   I4114.8
1/  The tax base is equal to gross earnings plus all provisions minus all divi-
dends paid to CBE and employees. The net effect is a tax rate equivalent to
approximately 25% of gross earnings, which is assumed in the projections.
g,/ As communicated to Appraisal Mission on 11-12-714.
F/ rom unaudited statements.
Customers' account in foreign currency.



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
6. No changes in paid-in share capital of LE 3.0 million.
7. Interest paid on deposits and savings will be as follows:
Public sector 2%
Kuwait deposit 5%
Private sector 3.5%
Savings 3.5%
8. Interest paid to Government of Egypt on IDA line of credit: 7.5% 1/
9. No change in yields on temporary investments and investments
required by law.
10. Loans and advances are projected by BOA's Board as shown below.
The projections are based on the expected financial reouirements
of the public and private sector enterprises as tentatively
prepared by the Central Bank of Egypt for inclusion in the next
five year Development Plan (1976-1980). 2/
(1E million)
Actual        Projections as of December 31
9/30/74    1974     1975     1976      1977     1976
Type of clients:
Public sector      204.6        -       191.0    200.0   210.0    220.0
Private sector      23.0        -        260      2 28. 0          33.0
Total  1/  227.6      260.5-  217.0    228.0   240.0   253.0
11.  Interest received on average outstanding balance as follows:
a) credit facilities to
Public sector: 6%
Private sector: 6.5%
b) lines of credits to specialized banks: 5% and 3%
c) treasury bonds: 1.5%
17  An on-lending rate of S.0% was agreed upon during negotiations; however,
the change has little impact on the projections, and -was not incorporated.
2/ The Board assumed a 5% annual growth rate in lending to Public sector and
a 10% rate for Private sector starting from the projected 1974 financial
statements, which have been underestimated as explained in the introduction.
Consequently, the 1975-78 projections should not be compared to actual
197L results.
3/ Including local currency term lending requirements.
I'/ -Tnaudited. Breakdown not available.



ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 5
12. Salaries and other operating expenses as projected by BOA's
management and included in the 1975-80 plans, the number of
staff is projected to grow annually by 10%; other expenses
projected to remain at their current relative levels.
B. SSPIS Term Lending Activities
Assumptions
1. Interest rate on loans. Foreign currency: 10.0%
Local Currency:     6.5%
2.  Interest rate on borrowings.  IDA credit       7.5%  1/
3.  Approvals, commitments and disbursements:  figures are based on
projected demand; e.g., ignoring resource constraints.
I. Relationship betvieen approvals, commitments and disbursements:
1. Approval: as per forecast given as page 5 of this Annex.
ii.  Commitments:  50% of net approvals will be committed in
the year of approval, 50% in the following
year.
iii. Disbursements: 30% of commitments will be disbursed in
the year of commitment, 50% in the follow-
ing year, 20% in the third year.
5.  Average repayment period for loans:  7 years including two years
of grace.
6. Projections for SSPIS show term lending only; e.g., any special
short and/or medium-term financing schemes, such as installment
sale financing or short-term financing of artisans and craftsmen,
have been ignored (see page 1 of this Annex).
j  See footnote page 3 of this Annex



ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 5
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Forecast of Term-lending Operations by SSPIS 1974-1978
(LE'OOO)
Actual                Projiected
1973    1974          1975          1976          1977         1978
Nct Ppprovals:
--local currency  /         32.0    1,683.0       1,775.0       1,950.0      2,200.0      2,500.0
--foreign currency          97.0    6,767.0       7,100.0       7,800.0      8,800.0    10,000.0
Total Approvals:       129.0    8,450.0       8,875.0       9,750.0    11,000.0    12,500.0
Commitments
--local currency             --     1,407.0      1,164.0       1,863.0      2,075.0      2,350.0
--foreign currency           -      4,864.0      5,550.0       7,450.0      8,300.0      9,400.0
Total commitment                 6,271.0      6,714.0       9,313.0    10,375.0    11,750.0
Disbursements:
--local currency             --       420.0      1,050.0       1,429.0      1,785.0      2,115.0
--foreign currency           --       394.0      5,537.0       5,588.0      7,325.0      8,460.0
Total disbursements:               8114.0     6,587.0       7,017.0      9,110.0    10,575.0
_7-Local cost component only of projects appraised
by foreign currency department of SSPIS estimated
at 20% of approvals.
May, 1975



ANNEX 17
BANK OF AIEXANDRIA
ProJected Income Statements
January 1 - Deeber 31, 1975 - 1978
Actual                                 Projected  1/
1973       1974 2/       1975          1976          1977         197B
Income from non-operational
investments                          631         957           288          290           292           294
Interest on medium and short-
term advances and discounts       12,361      13,529        14,537       15,442        16,269        17,121
Interest on long-term loans Y         -            40 *         310          870         1,510         2,300
Commissions, fees and other
charges                            2,395       4,734        3,192         3,540         3,900         L,285
Total income                  15,387      19,260        18,327        20,1142      21,971        24,00O
EXPENSES
Financial costs
Interest paid on deposits           3,668       4,050         3,812        4,142         4,479         4,831
Intereat paid on long term
borrowings: -domestic                105         105          105           105           105           -
-foreign                -            28 *         210          609         1,057         1,610
3,773      4,183         4,127         4,856         5,641        6,44i
OPERATING EXLENSES:
Salaries                            2,0114      2,198        2,566         2,947         3,385         3,887
Ot'ner operating expenses             810         901        1,110         1,205         1,311         1,393
Depreciation  W                        39          70          150           281           506           286
2,863      3,169         3,826         4,433         5,202        5,566
Operating Income                    8,7        11908        LO,37         10.,853       11,128        11,993
Fovigions
- for losses on doubtful loans    1,510       1,958        1,000         1,000         1,000         1,000
- for other expenses                583         655          500           500           500           500
2,093      2,613         1,500         1,500         1,500        1,500
GROSS E&RNINGS                       6,658       92            8,874         W53          _l628        10,493
Income tax                         1,556       2,W3         2,218         2,338         2,407         2,623
NEr PROFIT                           56102       6882         6,650         7,015         7,221         7,870
Appropriation 5/
Nasser Social Balk                    133         186 *        177           187           193           210
Legal reserve                         255         344 *        333           350           360           394
General reserve                       510         688 *         665          701           722           7c7
Dividends                           4,204       564*          5,481        5,777         5,946         6,479
5.102      6,882         6,656         7,015         7,2Z1       7,870
RATIOS
Income from loans as % of
average loan portfolio:              6.5         8.4          6.9           7.0           7.1           7.2
Financial expense as 
of average total debt:               1.4         1.2          1.2           1.3           1.4           1.6
operating income as S
average equity:                    105.0       130.0        104.0          98.7          92.7          92.2
Gross earnin4gs as 
average equity:                     80.2       101.4          88.7         85.0          80.2          80.7
Net profit as %
average equity:                     62.o        75.0         66.5 *        63.7          60.1          60.5
Interest Coverage:                    2.5         3.2           3.0          3.3           3.5           3.7
V See Annex 16, page 1 on Answptions
!/ Unaudited result.. Ite with an * estimated
/ IDA credit onlry at 10%
tliecellaneous. An additions to fixed asset. are written off in the year of investment.
/  See Note 2, A-n= 11 for allocation of net profit.
D4EMA/IG&DFC
may, 1975



ANNEX 18
BANK OF ALELXNRIA
Projected Cash Flow Statements December 31, 1975-78
1975      1976      1977       1973
SOURCES
Profit before taxes                            8,874     9,353      9,628    10,493
and back:
-Provisions                                1,500      1,500     1,500     1,5t0
-Depreciation                                150        281       506        286
Net increase in all deposits                 21,000    22,000    22,000    23,000
Term loan repayments  1/                       6,024     5,305      6,439     4,554
Increase (decrease) in sundry creditors              -     -          -         -
Total sources:                  37,548    38,439    40,073    39,833
APPLICATIONS
Increase (decrease) in sundry                  1,309     1,264         17     2,276
debtors
Increase (decrease) in non-                     (61)        85         85        85
operational investments
Net increase in short term                   10,350      9,671    10,315    10,985
lending
Term-loan disbursements  2/                    6,587     7,017     9,110    10,575
Taxes                                          2,218     2,338      2,407     2,623
Dividends                                      5,658     5X964     5,939      6,689
Total Applications               26,061    26,339    27,873    33,233
Cash (deficit) surplus                         11,487    12,100    12,200      6,600
1/ Assuming repayment period of seven years including two yearstgrace for SSPIS
lending; repayments on BOA term lending to public sector are estimated.
2/ Excluding roll-over for public sector de facto term lending.
EMENA/IC&DFC
May, 1975



ANNEX 19
BANK OF ALIXANWIA
Projected Bila,ice Sheets SDcember 31, 1974 - 1978
Actual                                  Projected   1/
1973         1397h   /     1975          1976         1977         1978
ASSETS
Cash, Short-term deposits and        1o4,356       172,295       151,768     163,868       176,068       182,968
dues fro Banks                                     8,.
Temporary investments                 14,260         8,538        14,h53      14,538        IL,621        lh,708
Sundry debtors                        20.744        13,260       16,209       17,473        17.90         19,766
Total Current Assets             139,360       194,093       182,430     195,879       208,181       217,4h2
Advances and discounts               151,848       241,754       198,278     207,949       218,26h       229,249
(of which to private sector)        (20,000)      (24,000) *   (26,000)    (28,000)       (30,000)     (33,000)
Specialized banks                      7,600         2,300  *      2,000       2,000         2,000         2,000
Long tenn loans%
- local currency                    15,652        16,072  *    17,122       18,551        20,336        22,L51
- foreign currency                    -            23           5,931       11.519        18,844        27,30h
Total Operational Portfolio      175 100       260,520       223         240 019       259,44b       281.0h
Less,  Provisions                                                (13165 97)  7Y )                         t 75)  17,259)
Net Operational Portfolio            161,940       245,303       208,472     224,360       242,985       263,745
Equity Investmentn
Net fixed assets                       2,553         1,306        1,306        1,306         1,306         1,306
Leass   Other Provisions               ( 608)       (1,357) *       64)         (673)         (702)         (731)
TCTAL ASSES                    2303356                      391,564     420,872        1,770        481,762
UlABIL3TIES AND EQUI5!
Deposits:  -demand                   125,423      13,6,196       I14,400     151,600       159,200       167,200
-term                      74,700        92,753        91,500      96,300       101,000       106,200
-savings                   27,258        31,4484       37,500      43,500        49,400        55,500
-other                     18,167        20,000       22,500       23,900        25,000        26,200
-foreign crrency  5/       11,300        49,934        52,100      54,700        57,o00        59,900
Total                            256,848       343,367       348,000     370,000       392,000       415,000
Banks- Correspondents  6/               -           61,883         -           -             -              -
Tax Liability                          2,389         2,413           933         9B3         1,033         1,083
Dividends payable                      4,337         5,850         7,946       8,331         8,542         9,137
sundry creditors                      19,833         5,069        7,500        7,500         7,500         7,500
Total                             26.559        13,332        16,379       16,814       17.075        17,720
Term bo ari
-dome*ic                           3,500         3s500        3,500        3,500         3,500          -
-foreign                             -             394 *      5,931       11,519        18,84h        27,304
Other Provisions and Liabilitive:
- Provision for staff pensions        3.517         3,678  *     3,868        4,041         4,214         4,386
- Provision for contingencies         1,765         2,109  *     1,934        2,020         2,106         2,193
- Other liabilities                   2,507         1,390        1,370        1,340         1,310         1,280
Total lisbilities                 294,696       429,653       380,982     409,234       439,049       467,883
Equity
Capital                              3,000         3,000         3,000       3,000         3,000         3,000
Reserves                             5,660         6,692  *      7,582       8,638         9,721        10,879
Total                               8,660         9,692        10,582      11,638        12,721        13,879
TOTAL IEIABI18 & WIQT7               303           439.345       391,564     420,872       451,770       481.762
Ratios
Teom loan/equity, (IDA Agreement)     1.8           1.7             2.2        2.6           3.0           3.6
Term debt/capital 7/                   -            1.3    *        3.1         5.0          ?.4           9.1
IDA debt as % total7debt:             0.0           0.1    *       1.6         3.0           4.5           6.5
I/ See Annex 16, page 1 on Aeacmptimns
T/ Unaudited results. Item vith an * is estimated.
T/ Time deposits in local and foreiga banks. For 1974 parallel market accounts included (export proceeds can be held for
six months).
1/ For depreciation of mleeellaneouB investments and asasets.
Customers' acoount in foreign curroncy (parallel market).
7/ Mostly foreign exchane liabilities on opened letters of credit to finance parallel market imports. See Annex 16,
page 1.
7/ As defined in Annex 8, Page 2 (General Policy Guidelines Section g.7).
MIqNA/IC&DF0
May, 1975



ANNEX 20
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Credit
Calendar Year                                           (us$ t0OO)
1976
Third quarter                                            1,000
Fourth quarter                                           2,000
1977
First quarter                                            2,200
Second quarter                                           2,300
Third quarter                                             2,500
Fourth quarter                                           2,500
1978
First quarter                                            2,500
Second quarter                                           2,500
Third quarter                                            2,500
Fourth quarter                                           2,000
1979
First quarter                                            1,000
Second quarter                                           1,000
Third quarter                                            1,000
EMENA IC&DFC
May, 1975



