CIRCUMIHTN   CObPY
FILE         c0Pv             TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not.For Public Use
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                    Report No. P-1670-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
SECOND BANK OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
July 2, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (IE 1) =     US$ 2.56 or SDR 2.118*
1 US Dollar              u    LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (fE)         US$ 1.70
1 US Dollar              -     E 0.587
*In the general realignment of currencies which occurred in February 1973
the value of the Egyptian pound was kept constant in terms of SDRs at '
LE = SDR 2.118. This was equivalent to an appreciation against the dollar
to EE - 2.56, from its previous value of ZE 1 - 2.30.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR THE SECOND BANK OF ALEXANDRIA PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$25
million on standard IDA terms to finance part of the foreign exchange require-
ments of the Bank of Alexandria's (BOA) development finance operations through
June 1977. The proceeds of the credit would be relent to the Bank of Alex-
andria for 17 years, including 3 years of grace, with an effective charge to
BOA of 8 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic report, "The Egyptian Economy in 1974:   Its Position
and Prospects", dated September 25, 1974, has been distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors (Report No. 491a-EGT). An economic mission has subsequently
visited Egypt during May/June 1975: its preliminary findings are reflected
below. Annex I provides some basic country data.
3.        The 1974 "October Paper", presented by President Sadat to the
people and the Parliament, and approved in a national referendum, continues
to provide the basic principles which guide Egyptian development. These en-
visage consolidation of state-owned enterprises, liberalization of the private
sector, incentives to private foreign investment and expanded economic coope-
ration with Arab countries. Accordingly, in 1974 and the first half of 1975,
Egypt initiated a number of steps in furtherance of these principles, which
are expected to lead to a significant restructuring of the economy. In part-
icular, steps were taken to remove some of the heavy restrictions on private
business activities, to encourage foreign private investment and to expand
exchange transactions outside the official rate. It should be noted, how-
ever, that this policy of economic liberalization was pursued in a largely
unfavorable international political and economic environment. The slower
than anticipated progress towards peace in the Middle East, the rapid in-
crease in international prices, the effect of recession in the economies of
the developed countries on exports, and the slow disbursement of international
aid and private foreign capital, all made for difficulties in the external
sector, which were reflected in the domestic economy (see paragraph 5 below).
This, and the inherent slowness of bureaucracy to adapt, have resulted in
slower progress than desired.
4.        The new Government, formed in April 1975, has reaffirmed its inten-
tion to maintain the momentum towards a more self-reliant, equitable and



-2-
liberalized economy, and for that purpose to implemnent a wide-ranging economic
management program. In particular, the Government has initiated or intends
to take measures: (i) to improve coordination in economic policy making;
(ii) to improve public sector efficiency through decentralization and other
measures; (iii) to rationalize consumption subsidies and to increase national
savings, while protecting the real income of lower income groups, through
appropriate price, fiscal and monetary policies; (iv) to promote efficiency
resource allocation through widening the parallel foreign exchange market and
pursuing price policies that: would better reflect economic scarcities; and
(v) to rationalize its external debt situation and implement a debt-manage-
ment program. The implementation of these policy objectives, in conjunction
with the substantial inflow of foreign aid expected in 1975 and 1976 (para-
graphs 16 and 19), revenues from the Suez Canal (opened on June 5, 1975) and
revitalized economic activity in the Canal Zone, should lead to a considerable
strengthening of the Egyptian economy in the coming years.
5.        Production and Prices.   Economic growth in 1974 is estimated at
about 4 percent in real terms; with industry (largely because of greater util-
ization of capacity) and services (including construction and tourism) being
the leading growth sectors. Inflation, however, has continued; despite sub-
sidies and price controls over a wide range of commodities, the Consumer Price
Index for Urban Population increased by 11 percent in 1974, with the food and
beverage component of the index registering a rise of 17 percent. It is like-
ly that these figures understate the level of inflationary pressures in the
economy as the index is based on controlled prices. The rise in the cost of
living in relation to money wages and salaries lowered the real income of most
people, and in particular of public sector employees. The tensions created
thus manifested themselves briefly in some civil disturbances shortly before
the change of Government in April. The new Government has announced stabil-
ization of prices as one of its main economic objectives.
6.        Balance of Payments.   Egypt's economy in 1974 was dominated by pres-
sures that had their origins chiefly in the external sector. In addition to
the constraints imposed on the economy by a continuation of the "no-war, no-
peace" situation, Egypt attempted to maintain: (i) its regular heavy import
requirements of essential foodstuffs, (ii) an adequate level of imports of
raw materials and other inputs to utilize existing capacity more fully and to
build up stocks so as to avoid the recurrent dislocation to production that
had resulted from the sudden shortages of raw materials, and (iii) the regular
payment of its heavy external debt obligations. The pressure on the balance
of payments was increased by sharp rises in international prices, particularly
of foodstuffs, and by the slow disbursements of foreign medium- and long-term
loans. In 1974, therefore, despite a large increase in grants from Arab
countries, Egypt resorted to substantial short-term borrowing abroad, largely
in the form of bank credit facilities.
7.        Egypt's deficit on its commodity trade amounted to $1,530 million
in 1974 (more than twice that experienced in 1973). Exports of goods in-
creased by 65 percent to $1,670 million, but fell far short of the increase
in imports. Receipts from services exceeded payments by $170 million, al-
though the increased earnings from tourism (to $250 million), were largely



-3-
offset by heavy payments of interest and dividends. The 1974 balance of
trade and services showed a deficit of $1.36 billion. Egypt's balance of
payments difficulties were further compounded by a slow disbursement of medium
and long-term loans committed during 1973 and 1974; this resulted in a net
outflow of $130 million on official medium- and long-term capital. Substan-
tially increased Arab grants ($1,040 million in .1974 - see paragraph 15 below),
were inadequate to cover the overall deficit on the current and the medium-
and long-term capital accounts of $460 million, which was met essentially by
the use of bank credit facilities. Net utilization of bankers' facilities
is estimated at $580 million in 1974.
8.        Projections of Egypt's balance of trade and services in 1975 indi-
cate a deficit of about $2.1 billion. Receipts from raw cotton exports are
expected to be about 60 percent of their 1974 level, due to depressed inter-
national market conditions, while receipts from services (largely tourism and
Suez Canal dues) are expected to increase by about 25 percent. In addition
to the above, repayments of about $550 million have to be made during the
year on outstanding medium- and long-term loans and suppliers' credits. The
projected deficit (of at least $2.6 billion) is expected to be financed large-
ly through Arab grants, commodity loans, project loans and suppliers' credits.
Reliance on additional bank credit facilities is expected to be small, in ac-
cordance with the Government's policy to reduce the use of such facilities.
Egypt's external financing problems and its implications for debt management
are discussed in paragraphs 15 and 16 below.
9.        The Domestic Budget.   Preliminary budget figures for 1974 show a
deficit of $1,670 million compared with $990 million in 1973. On the basis
of monetary data, it appears that financing of the deficit by the banking
system amounted to $820 million. The increase in the budget deficit between
1973 and 1974 is largely explained by the 190 percent increase in the cost
of living subsidies, and the fact that current revenues increased by less
than 10 percent. The latter figure may understate the taxes actually levied;
customs duties collected (the principal revenue item) increased by only 16
percent in a period when import value doubled; it is understood that there
were substantial arrears. Other items worth noting are a 64 percent increase
in transfers to the budget from public enterprises (principally the profits
of the Cotton Ceneral Organization), and an increase of only 8 percent in
current expenditures, the latter perhaps representing undue restraints on
current expenditures in some areas, particularly in the agricultural sector.
10.       The 1975 budget projects a large deficit ($2,370 million), despite
a 40 percent increase in current revenues (which in turn arises principally
from a doubling of revenues from customs duties, including collection of ar-
rears). The budget deficit may, however, turn out to be smaller than proj-
ected, because of the sharp decline in the price of imported wheat in recent
months, which should reduce the cost of living subsidies below their project-
ed level of $1,315 million. Direct bank financing of the budget deficit is
projected at $320 million, but total lending by the banking sector to the
Government may exceed this level.



- 4 -
11.       In short, the budgetary outturn during 1975 (and perhaps during
1976) will remain under some strain. Much of the deficit will be accounted
for by the weight of consumption subsidies, but given their importance in
maintaining real incomes of low-income groups and the Government's commitment
to this goal, a reduction is only feasible over a period. However, some
rationalization, price adjustment, and the elimination of certain anomalies
should be possible, so as to reduce subsidies and ensure that they go only
to the poorer section of the population.
12.       Investment.  Investment expenditures increased from $1.2 billion
in 1973 (which was only marginally above the 1965/66 level) to $1.9 billion
in 1974 (in current prices). In November 1974, the Government updated its
Interim Development Program for the period July 1974 to December 1975, the
purpose of which is to initiate a meaningful development strategy and to com-
mence restructuring the economy for peace and development. The 1975 Plan
envisages gross fixed investment of $3.0 billion; $1.9 billion has according-
ly been budgeted for public sector investment expenditures, and a further
$220 million is expected to be financed by Arab ancl other foreign sources.
In addition, in 1975 there aLre $620 million of reconstruction expenditures
to be financed from the "Emergency Fund" 1/. The investment priorities in
1974 emphasized greater utilization of existing capacity, completion of ongoing
projects, and the reconstruction of the Suez Canal Zone. The 1975 Plan has
the following priorities: (i) reconstruction in the Suez Canal area (mainly
in housing and related infrastructure; (ii) complet:ion of ongoing projects;
(iii) replacement, renewal, and better utilization of idle capacity; and (iv)
new projects considered essential for economic development, such as for pro-
ducing fertilizers and cement. The distribution of public sector investment
closely follows the order of priorities laid out above: nearly 37 percent is
allocated to reconstruction, 19 percent to industry, 10 percent to housing
and about 8 percent to petroleum.
13.       The 1975 Plan also proposes tripling investment in the private sec-
tor to $250 million, almost all of which will be in service activities and
commodities production.   The share of private investment in housing, industry
and agriculture sectors is put respectively at 33, 14, and 10 percent of total
investment in these sectors.
External Assistance
14.       Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until the mid-
1960's. Thereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased.
The gross inflow of medium- and long-term capital fell by nearly 50 percent
immediately after the 1967 war.   Although aid levels gradually rose again,
net inflows from western countries averaged only $10 million annually in
medium- and long-term capital over the five-year period FY 1968-1972; amort-
ization payments exceede(i dishursementq by about $8 million in 1973. The
J/   A Government account for special defense facilities and reconstruction,
funded by Arab grants and ear-marked revenue receipts. The operations
of the Fund are excluded from the national budget.



-5-
total net outflow on this account (to both Eastern and Western bloc countries)
increased to about $130 million in 1974. Drawings on suppliers credits ex-
ceeded repayments by about $20 million; disbursements on medium- and long-term
loans amounted to about $250 million while repayments of such loans amounted
to $400 million. In addition, interest payments (mainly on bank credit facil-
ities) amounted to about $150 million.
15.       Substantial Arab aid of $1 ,040 million was disbursed to Egypt in
1974. In addition several countries and multilateral institutions have in
the past eighteen months committed new loans to be disbursed over periods
varying from two to five years (IBRD/IDA $247 million, United States and
Germany $190 million each, Japan $150 million, France $15 million and Denmark
$9 million).
16.       On present information, Arab grants and other unrequited transfers
during 1975 are estimated at about $950 million. Direct assistance from
other (non-Arab) governments and multilateral institutions (largely IBRD/IDA,
the United States, Germany, Iran and Japan), in the form of accelerated dis-
bursements on existing commitments as well as new aid, is expected to amount
to about $1,020 million. The remaining external financing requirements for
1975 (of about $610 million) are expected to be met through drawings on sup-
pliers credits and deferred payment financing from Eastern bloc countries.
The Egyptian Government further hopes, during the course of 1975, to raise
substantial long-term loans (at concessional terms) on Arab money markets,
the proceeds of which will be used to reduce the excessive level of outstand-
ing banking facilities.
FExternal Debt and Creditworthiness
17.       Egypt's public external civilian debt disbursed and outstanding at
December 31, 1974 is estimated at $2.8 billion. In addition to this, there
was short-term public debt (bank credit facilities) of about $1.1 billion.
The USSR was Egypt's principal creditor, followed in importance by Germany,
Kuwait, the United States, Australia and Italy. IBRD/IDA debt comprised
about 1 percent of the total. Of the reported external public debt at end
1974, about 31 percent was due to be repaid within two years, 40 percent with-
in three years, and 46 percent within four years. Service payments on these
debts are estimated to reach $545 million in 1975, equivalent to about 24
percent of the country's expected gross foreign exchange earnings (excluding
Arab subsidies and other unrequited transfers).
18.       The expected large current deficits in the balance of payments in
1975, together wlth heavy debt service payments, call for substantial amounts
of foreign capital in the short-run.  This need is increased by the urgency
of re(ducinig the level of outstanding banking facilities (since such facilities
constitute not only expensive credit but also create problems of maintaining
adequate liquiditv).  It is anticipated that substantial amounts of longer-
term foreign capital will be forthcoming for this purpose during 1975 (para-
graph 10) .



-6-
19.       In the medium and longer-run, the outlook for Egypt's balance of
payments is more promising. Foreign exchange earnings are expected to grow
from a level of $2.4 billion in 1974 to about $4.6 billion in 1980, because
of the reopening of the Suez Canal, the operation of the Sumed pipeline,
rapidly rising exports of petroleum and petroleum products, a doubling of
manufactured exports, increased workers' remittances, and the development of
tourism. Imports of goods and services can be expected to rise at a slower
pace after 1975. As a result, the deficit on external trade and services is
projected to narrow progressively in the latter part of the decade, signifi-
cantlv reducing the required net inflow of foreign capital. With the expected
rapid increase in export earnings, and the slower growth and consolidation of
external debt, the debt service ratio could fall to some 15 percent by 1980.
Accordinglv, while there will continue to be a heavy short-term debt burden
in the near future, with the implementation of the policy measures described
above Egypt can be judged creditworthy for some Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
20.       The proposed credit would be the Bank Group's seventeenth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments to $459.6 mil-
lion.  Annex II contains a Summary of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of May
31, 1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       In view of Egypt's substantially increased need for external as-
sistance to help finance an expanded development program, its size and absorp-
tive capacity, and the economic policy measures taken and contemplated by the
Government to restore creditworthiness, the scope of Bank Group lending was
increased significantly in FY1975, and it is proposed to continue at the in--
creased level, with availab:Le IDA funds being supplemented by Bank loans.
Bank/IDA commitments to Egypt in FY1975 were $227.0 million.    Bank Group lend-
ing is directed at assisting the Government's efforts to increase utilization
of existing productive capacity; at projects for rehabilitation of infrastruc-
ture -- which is necessary to facilitate growth in the economic sectors; at
projects that will raise production and productivity in agriculture and indus-
try and at projects that wi:Ll increase foreign exchange earnings or substitute
for imports.  The choice of projects within a given sector is influenced by
the scope for providing assistance in priority areas within the sector, and
for effecting long-term institutional and policy reforms.
22.       In the context of the expanding economic activity and the larger
Bank Group involvement in Egypt's economic developrnent the Government has
requested Bank Group advice on sectoral and policy matters. It is therefore
expected that technical assistance, both project and non-project, will also
increase significantly, and will constitute an essential ingredient of Bank
Group participation in Egypt's economic development. The Bank Group has fi-
nanced, or is executinig agency for, a number of sector and subsector studies.
It might also be noted that the. Government attaches particular importance to
the catalytic role of Bank Group financing and is actively exploring the



-7-
interest of other donors in complementary financing of projects. In fact,
all projects financed by the Bank Group in FY1975 in Egypt involved co-financ-
ing with other donors.
23.       Bank Group disbursements would represent a small portion, less than
10 percent, of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements (see para. 16).
The Bank Group's share of the total external debt outstanding and disbursed
was about 1 percent at the end of 1974. For the future, the Bank/IDA share
of total external debt outstanding and disbursed is estimated to reach about
10 percent in 1978; the IBRD share in 1978 would be about 7 percent of exter-
nal debt outstanding and disbursed. It is estimated that in 1978, debt serv-
ice pavments due to the Bank Group, including that on Bank loans, will re-
present about 1 percent of service payments due on all of Egypt's external
debt.
24.       In FY75 the Executive Directors approved a credit and a loan for
the Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project, a loan for the Suez Canal
Rehabilitation Project, a loan for the Tourah Cement Expansion Project, a
second loan for the Egyptian Railways, and a credit for telecommunications.
In addition to the proposed project, those under preparation for FY76 include
textile rehabilitation, an agricultural credit including production and ex-
port marketing of fruits and vegetables, a project to improve the Port of
Alexandria, and a second Agricultural and Industrial Imports project. IFC
is considering financing a ceramic industry project.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Background
25.       Egypt has a long-established and active industrial sector which in
1973 accounted for about 22 percent of GDP, about 37 percent of total exports,
and about 13 percent of total employment (or about 1.2 million), ranking
second after agriculture in its importance to the economy. It is expected
to play the leading role in future development, especially in view of con-
straints on expansion of agriculture due to limitations of arable land and
water for irrigation. Egypt has a large domestic market, considerable human
and natural resources, a favorable geographical situation, a reasonably well-
developed industrial base and tradition of industrial activity, and a rela-
tively skilled labor force; it also has a demonstrated capability to produce
and to export a variety of manufactured goods. However, in recent years capa-
city utilisation has been low, mainly due to shortage of foreign exchange, so
that industrial output has been depressed. Government policy accords a high
priority to industrial expansion, in view of the importance of its potential
contribution to Egypt's development through increases in income, employment
and foreign exchange earnings.



Orglanization
26.       Industrial enterprises in Egypt, both in the public and private
sectors, operate generally under the guidance and supervision of the Ministry
of Industry. Public sector industrial enterprises are owned by one of six
"General Organizations", (Food Processing, Spinning and Weaving, Chemicals,
Building Materials, Metallurgical, and Engineering, Electrical and Elec-
tronics). 1/ In addition, the General Organization for Industrialization
(GOFI), the planning arm of the Ministry of Industry, is responsible for plan-
ning and coordinating expansion and development programs in the whole indus-
trial sector. All public sector industrial investments, and private sector
investments of over BE 8,000, require its approval. While for public sector
projects GOFI conducts a detailed appraisal, its examination of private proj-
ects is largely to assess the appropriateness of the proposal in relation to
government policy and development objectives. For private sector proposals,
GOFI acts on the advice of a licensing committee for granting industrial ap-
proval, whiclh includes representatives of the above-mentioned General Organ-
izations, the Industrial Control Board of the Ministry of Industry, the Fede-
ration of Egyptian Industries, and BOA. GOFI's appraisals and recommendations
for private sector projects are reviewed by the Industrial Control Board of
the Ministry of Industry, prior to final approval by GOFI, to assess their
suitability in the light of resource availability, market and other relevant
considerations.
Production and Growth
27.       Egypt's principal industries, as measured by employment and output,
remain in the traditional textile and food processing sub-sectors. However,
during the past twenty years other sub-sectors have increased in importance
as the scope of manufacturing industry has widened. Other sizeable sub-
sectors now include engineering (including production of vehicles, tractors
and certain consumer durables), chemicals (including fertilizers, paper and
tires), metallurgical (mainly iron and steel), and building materials. Some
75 percent of the value of industrial output is accounted for by the public
sector; the share of the public sector i.n the output of industrial sub-sectors
ranges from about 90 percent in the metallurgical industries to about 75 per-
cent in the textile and chemicals sub-sectors. Most large- and medium-scale
enterprises are in the public sector, which includes some 200 industrial
enterprises employing in total over 500,000 workers. Private industry remains
strong, especially in textiles, food and beverage processing, wood-working
and leather goods (the latter two sub-sectors being almost entirely in private
hands), where there are numbers of private firms employing 200-300 workers.
The private manufacturing sector has altogether about 450,000 employees in
over 150,000 establishments, of which some 2 to 3 percent are considered to be
factory-type operations, employing over 50 people.
1/   Certain other manufacturing enterprises operate under other ministries,
including especially defense related industries (Ministry of Defense)
and cotton ginning (Ministry of Agriculture).



-9-
28.       The growth rate in the industrial sector during the period 1968/69-
1970/71 was about 9 percent in real terms. Thereafter it stagnated until
1974, when output grew by about 5 percent. A dominant constraint on capacity
utilization and output growth in the sector in recent years has been foreign
exchange shortage. Together with other program assistance obtained by Egypt
in 1974 (see para. 15), the $70 million 1974 IBRD/IDA loan (No. 1062) and
credit (No. 524) for Agricultural and Industrial Imports was intended to im-
prove utilization of the existing productive capacity in the agricultural and
industrial sectors.
Exports
29.       Manufactured goods exports grew by about 26 percent (in current
prices) between 1970 and 1973, and by 52 percent in 1974. One major reason
for the sharp increase in the sector's export earnings in 1974 was the sig-
nificantly higher prices obtained for cotton textile exports, which have not
been sustained in 1975. Lower cotton textile export earnings combined with
the increasing domestic demand for manufactured goods are likely to result in
a substantial decline in the sector's export earnings in 1975 over 1974. It
is noteworthy that the exports of the private sector have grown much more
rapidly than those of the public sector in recent years. The share of the
private sector in total exports of indu-strial goods increased from 13 percent
in 1970/71 to 24 percent in 1974. While there is a substantial incentive
for exports to be directed to convertible currency markets, in that the
receipts for non-traditional exports can be directed through the parallel
market, a large proportion of manufactured exports (64% in 1973 and 71% in
1974) went to East European countries.
Public Sector Investment
30.       Investment in public sector manufacturing industry increased by
about 80 percent to $325 million in 1974. About half the 1974 investment was
devoted to metallurgical industries including the Helwan Steel Complex. The
balance was distributed among the remaining subsectors as follows: food pro-
cessing 9 percent, textiles 17 percent, chemicals 13 percent, building mater-
ials 4 percent and engineering industries 5 percent. The 1975 planned invest-
ment in industry is marginally above the 1974 total; allocations to the
metallurgical subsector have been reduced to 37 percent, reflecting a shift
of resources to the food processing and chemical subsectors. Investments for
tile period 1976-80 in the industrial sector are still under discussion in the
context of the Five-Year Plan now being prepared.    A number of joint venture
investments is contemplated for public sector enterprises.
Private Investment
31.       The investment climate for entrepreneurs in the private sector has
been improved in the past two years by the new official recognition given to
the role of the private sector in the economy. The previous environment of
uncertainty regarding nationalization and sequestration has given way to a
new and increasing confidence and optimism among private businessmen. Also
a new foreign investment law was enacted in 1974 to give additional incentives



- 10 -
to foreign private investment in Egypt, and as of March 31, 1975, 121 indus-
trial projects with proposed investments of about $140 million had been ap-
proved under the new law. Furthermore, the Government is continuing to expand
free zones to stimulate foreign investment, particularly in the Suez Canal
Zone.
32.       The Government envisages local private investment mainly in medium-
and small-scale industries. It is generally considered that local entre-
preneurs lack funds sufficient to undertake large-scale industrial projects,
while some major industries (including military industries, fertilizer pro-
duction and other key industries) have remained in the domain of the public
sector. Private industry has, however, a large potential for growth. The
number of licenses issued for private investment by GOFI increased from an
annual average of approximately 300 in 1969-72 to 447 in 1973 and 514 in 1974.
The total cost of projects licensed in 1973 and 1974 was estimated at about
$50 million, in each year. Planned investment in private sector manufacturing
industry in 1975 is shown at $80 million in the 1975 interim plan. Moreover,
a Presidential decree was issued in May to allow workers and private citizens
to purchase new issues of stocks of public sector enterprises up to a maximum
of hE 10,000 ($25,000) per individual.   The principal objective of this decree
is to encourage private savings and to cliannel them towards increased invest-
ment requirements of industry.
33.       Shortage of foreign exchange has however been a bottleneck to in-
vestment in public and privat:e sectors alike. The $15 million IDA credit
extended to BOA in 1973 has been the sole institutional source of foreign
exchange for long-term investment by the private sector in the past year,
and has also been used for relatively small public sector projects (see para-
graph 47 below).
Parallel Foreign Exchange Markets
34.       In September 1973, the Government announced the creation of a paral-
lel foreign exchange market, where a premium of 50 percent for buying and 55
percent for selling convertible currencies is paid over the prevailing offi-
cial rate of S2.56 for hE 1 (see Appraisal Report Annex 3). The parallel
market replaced a system of multiple exchange rates which had existed since
1969.  The two primary objectives for the creation of the parallel market were:
(i) to increase the inflow of convertible foreign currency resources, partic-
ularly by tapping assets held by Egyptians overseas, and by encouraging ex-
ports to convertible currency areas; and (ii) to make these resources avail-
able primarily to industry and selected service sectors so as to increase pro-
duction, tourism and exports. Since the creation of the parallel market, the
availability of foreign exchange for the recurrent needs of the private sector
has improved. In addition, because of the extreme shortage of foreign ex-
change in 1974, the parallel market was also used to provide hE 30 million of
foreign exchange to public sector industrial enterprises, for recurrent im-
ports, following a case-by-case review of needs. For 1975 SE 14 million of
foreign exchange through the parallel market has been budgeted for the private



sector. However, because of the tight foreign exchange position of the coun-
try, the actual allocations for the first half of the year are only BE 5 mil-
lion. The recent broadening of the parallel market to allow importation of
certain raw materials by Egyptians holding foreign currencies abroad is re-
lieving some of the pressure.
35.       Government policy has been to expand the scope of the parallel
market. However, since the proposed Credit is for investment purchases,
rather than recurrent imports, and it will be the private industrial sector's
sole source of.foreign exchange for investment purposes, the Government wishes
the proceeds of the Credit to be made available to BOA's sub-borrowers at the
official rate. Thus the private sector will be able to obtain foreign ex-
change as cheaply as the public sector. At the same time (para 50 below),
the exchange risk on funds provided to sub-borrowers under this credit will
be assumed by BOA's sub-borrowers (Paragraph 2(c), Schedule 2, draft Develop-
nent Credit Agreement).
Bank Group Strategy in Industrial Sector
36.       Since 1972, a significant part of the Bank Group's program in
Egypt has been in support of industrial development, 5 of the 12 projects
financed having been for industrial purposes. As part of this program,
studies are being carried out under the Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project (Credit 524/Loan 1062) of each sub-sector of industry so as to assist
future investment policy decisions in the sector. The results of these
studies will form an important input into the 1976-80 Development Plan, cur-
rently under preparation. The Bank Group has sought both to support develop-
ment in crucial sub-sectors (such as building materials and fertilizer) of
publicly-owned industry, and, through its credits for BOA, to support the
Government's strategy of diversification and growth of private sector medium-
and small-scale industries.
Financial Sector
37.       The Egyptian banking community consists basically of four state-
owned commercial banks: Bank Misr, Banque du Caire, National Bank of Egypt
and BOA.  Other government-owned, specialized banks handle mortgages, coopera-
tive credit, etc. Two other commercial banking institutions, the Arab Inter-
national Bank and the Arab African Bank, are treated legally as non-resident-
banks, and cannot conduct direct operations with residents. The Misr-Iran
Bank, set up jointly by Egypt and Iran, will identify, implement and manage
large development projects in Egypt and Iran. Its transactions will be car-
ried out in convertible currencies. Jointly-owned commercial banks are also
being established by other Egyptian banks in partnership with private foreign
banks (BOA, for exampie, has entered into a joint venture with American Ex-
press), but for the present these banks are not expected to be involved in
operations which would conflict with the project.
38.       Under the laws governing the Egyptiani banking system, each of the
four state-owned banks is assigned a specific role in providing services to



- 12 -
sectors of. the economy. BOA is assigned the role of servicing the industrial
sector, and is the private industrial sector's sole institutional source of
investment funds on a term basis. For local currency loans, BOA has access
to the funds generated bv its extensive commercial operations; so far the only
foreign exchange it has had has been from the first IDA credit.    The organiza-
tion and operations of BOA are discussed in greater detail in Part IV below.
Developments in the Banking System
39.      TThe organization of the banking svstem in Egypt is currently under
review bv the Covernment, and in November 1974 the Prime Minister announced
to the People's Assembly the Government's intention to establish a new indus-
trial hank. A resolution for the establishment of such a bank was issued by
the Minister of Finance in Februarv 1975. Because the establishment of this
bank was part of a reassessment of the banking system, to be made in the
light of the recent decision to authorize foreign banks to operate in Egypt
and other measures to liberalize economic policy, which might take some time,
thte Government asked IDA not to delav processing the proposed credit to BOA
on that account. Since BOA has a clear and urgent need for foreign exchanige
for its existing pipeline of projects, it was decided that the project be
processed for lending to BOA, rather than waiting for the new institution to
be operational.   (Assurances have been obtained that no measure will be taken
by the Government or bv BOA which would result in the dismantling of thie
organization, withiln O()A, responsible for term lending, or which would have
adverse effect o01 the adequacv of the staff of that organization.)    The Gov-
ernment recognizes that both the first and the proposed second BOA credits
must under the relevant Development Credit Agreements be administered by BOA,
an(i could not be transferred to another organization without IDA's prior
approval.   If the Government, in due course and after the organization, fi-
nancing, staffing, and policies of the new industrial bank have been estab-
lished, requested IDA's permission to transfer responsibility for carrying
out the project to the new institution, a fresh appraisal would be made in
order to assess the institution.   In the meantime, IDA will be kept informed
of development of the new bank, and its advice sought. (Assurances obtained
on the basis of Sections 3.01(c) and 4.01 draft Development Credit Agreement.
Sections 2.01 and 2.07 draft Project Agreement).
PART IV - TIIE PROJECT
40.       In late 197() the G;overnment sought Bank (;roup assistance for the
thetn [ndustrial Baank of Egypt (IBE}).  A reorganization of the banking system
took place in September 1971, as part of which IBE was merged with BOA. Fol-
lowing a renewed request by the Government, a credit of $15 million for BOA
was approved in June 1973.   In view of the rate of commitment of the first
credit, BOA's large project pipeline, and the desire of the Government and
BOA that the SBank Group continue to aid instituttion-btuilding in the sector,
the Government requested in July 1974 that the Bank Group consider providing
furthier assistance for 1B0A. The project was appraised in November 1974.



- 13 -
Negotiations on the proposed credit were held in W1ashington from May 16 to
May 22, 1975. The Egyptian delegation was led by Dr. Rafik A. Sowelem, Under
Secretary, Agency for Arab and International Economic Cooperation, and in-
cluded representatives of BOA and the Central Bank of Egypt.
41.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Second Bank of Alexandria Credit
Project - Egypt" (No. 797-ECT), dated June 27, 1975, is being distributed
separately. A Credit and Project Summary is attached as Annex III.
Bank of Alexandria
42.       BOA was formed in 1957, and its share capital is fully owned by the
Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). It is the largest commercial bank in Egypt with
assets of about bE 440 million in 1974. It is successful and profitable, and
has a good reputation in Egypt and abroad. Since 1971, BOA has been the
vehicle selected by the Government for financing development in the private
industrial sector.   It also provides substantial financial services to public
sector enterprises. Its large network of branches throughout Egypt facili-
tates development financing outside the main metropolises. BOA's portfolio
is sound, and more than adequate provisions have been made for possible
losses. BOA's liquidity, reserves, cash requirements and the relationship
between deposits and term lending are regulated by CBE, which follows con-
servative policies. It enjoys a comfortable spread of 7 percent on overall
operations, and its earnings have been consistently high in recent years.
43.       Management and Organization.    BOA's Board of Directors consists of
nine of its full-time officers. Five Directors, including the Chairman, are
appointed by presidential decree for indefinite periods, the other four being
elected by the staff. All are experienced commercial bankers. Following the
retirement of the previous chairman in 1974, Mr. Mohammed Moustapha El Bayoumy
is Acting Chairman, pending issue of a presidential decree that is expected
to confirm him in his post. Mr. El Bayoumy was previously BOA's Senior General
Manager and Member of the Board, and is highly respected in the financial and
business community in Egypt. BOA's organizational structure, appropriate for
a commercial bank of its size, is set out in detail in Annex 4 to the apprais-
al report. It includes as well its term-lending department "Special Services
to the Private Industrial Sector" (SSPIS, see para. 46 below), departments for
credit, follow.-up, promotion, and foreign relations, and service departments
such as the legal, administrative, planning and budgeting, accounting and per-
sonnel departments.
44.       Special Services to the Private Industrial Sector.    All term lending
operations involving foreign currency, local currency term lending operations
for the private sector, and direct term-lending operation for public sector
industry, are handled by SSPIS. The organizational structure of the depart-
ment is described in Annex 7 to the Appraisal Report. SSPIS follows policy
guidelines and procedures for term-lending formulated in consultation with
IDA that are in line with those normally followed by development finance com-
panies for which the Bank Group has provided funds. No change in these guide-
lines can be made without IDA approval. While lending and supervision acti-
vities for sub-projects using IDA funds are carried out by SSPIS, a separate



- 14 -
financial analysis for SSPIS would not be meaningful, since it is not a fi-
nancially autonomous unit nor are there adequate separate cost accounts for
the purpose. Banking and financial operations of SSPIS, as well as bookkeep-
ing and other service functions, are carried out by the other departments of
BOA. The project entity for which financial data is given in the appraisal
is therefore BOA as a whole, even thoughl SSPIS' development banking activities
form only a small part of BOA's total operations.
45.       Training and Equipment.   Bothi the general manager of SSPIS and his
deputv are ahle and experienced BOA staff members.    The Bank Group assisted
in arranging training for one of SSPIS's officers with another beneficiary
of Bank Group development finance company financing, the Industrial Credit &
Investment Corporation of India (ICICI). However, while SSPI staff is dili-
gent, it remains in need of further training and exposure to development
banking practices.   A training program for SSPIS staff will be drawn up by
BOA in consultation with IDA; it is proposed that $90,000 will accordingly be
made available under the cre(lit for technical assistance, for training staff,
and for giving them opportunities to gain experience with development finance
companies in other countries.   A technical adviser from ICICI, partly financed
under the first credit, worked in SSPIS from November 1974 to May 1975; the
value of his work is evident in the sub-projects rerently submitted to IDA.
The training program will include provision of the services of technical ad-
visers or consultants, to be agreed with IDA, financed from the proceeds of
the credit. It is proposed that $10,000 of the credit be made available for
purchase of calculating machines and other office equipment for SSPIS, which
would add substantially to the efficiency of SSPIS operations. (Sections
2.03(a) and 3.01(a), draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 2.08 draft
Project Agreement)
46.       SSPIS Operations.   In addition to its longer term lending operations,
the major part of SSPIS's activities consists of financing installment pur-
chases of industrial equipment and the provision of working capital, for terms
generally not exceeding three years.   From January 1974 to March 1975, these
activities accounted for some hE 30.3 million out of SSPIS's bE 39.5 million
total operations. Its term-lending operations during that period included 49
loans of longer than 5-year terms, totalling bE 7.8 million, of which 44 had
a foreign exchange component totalling LE 5.9 million, provided under the
first IDA credit (see paragraph 48 below). SSPIS financed in total about 79
percent of total   private in(lustrial investment approved by GOFI during that
period .
First Credit
Z7.       Thle first IDA credit to liOA (No. 412-ECT) became effective in
)ctober 1973.   Projects whose foreign f  xchange componients totalled more than
the $15 million of the first IDA credit had beeni submitted to IDA before
March 31, 1975, the date specified by the Project Agreement for final commit-
ment, although this date was subsequently extended to September 30, 1975, to
allow for flexibility in project selection. By June 12, 1975, $14.6 million
had been committed, and furtlher commitments had been suspended to allow for



- 15
foreign exchange fluctuations in subprojects already committed. Disbursements
were initially slower than expected, partly due to difficulties with proced-
ural formalities for granting licenses for imports to be financed under the
credit; while this problem was resolved in July 1974, disbursements have re-
mained slower than forecast, because of long lead times on equipment delivery.
SSPIS has recently begun to follow up more closely with sub-borrowers on is-
sues affecting the rate of disbursement, which is expected to increase by the
end of 1975.
48.       Financing under the first IDA credit was approximately equally
divided between public and private enterprises, as expected. The average
size of the 39 private sector loans involving IDA funds was EE 89,000, com-
pared with bE 831,000 for the 5 public sector loans. It is estimated that
SSPIS loans under the first credit generated about 687 jobs; the financial
return on a sample of major projects ranges approximately from 15 to 33 per-
cent and the economic return from 9 to 23 percent. Export earnings generated
by 15 major sub-projects analyzed by IDA were forecast at bE 5.7 million
$14.3 million) annually. Projects under the credit were well diversified
between five major industrial sub-sectors: food, building materials, clothing
and textiles, metal working and chemicals. SSPIS' pipeline continues to be
diversified, with a few tourist and other service sector projects in addition
to industrial ones. A substantial number of projects is for export-earning
investments.
Pipeline and Resource Requirements
49.       SSPIS had a pipeline of projects at the close of 1974 requiring
foreign exchange totalling approximately $50 million. It was expected that
approvals of sub-projects would grow at some 5 percent in 1975 over the 1974
figure of $17 million in foreign exchange, and then at an average rate of 11
percent annually to 1978. Allowing for projects in 1975 financed under the
first credit, and for the fact that only a proportion of pipeline projects
normally materializes, SSPIS' foreign exchange requirements are estimated at
a minimum of $40 million for the period January 1975-June 1977. However, it
remains difficult to estimate the pent-up investment demand for foreign ex-
change by private industry -- if growth prospects continue favorable it may
well be that these figures represent an underestimate of the actual foreign
exchange needs. The possibility of obtaining resources from other institu-
tions is being explored by the Government and BOA, and several other lending
institutions are considering making resources available to BOA, subsequent to
the proposed IDA credit being approved. It is therefore recommended that IDA
finance only a portion of BOA's estimated foreign exchange needs through June
1977 through the proposed credit of $25 million, leaving the Government and
BOA to arrange financing for the balance of at least $15 million.
On-Lending
50.       The proposed credit would be onlent by the Covernment to BOA for a
maximum of 17 years, including 3 years of grace. Repayment terms would be
adjusted to reflect the composite amortization schedule of BDA subloans.   The



- 16 -
effective cost to BOA would be 8 percent per annum (composed of 5 percent
interest and 3 percent Ministry of Finance charge.    BOA would relend the
proceeds at an effective cost to sub-borrowers of 10 percent (7 percent in-
terest and 3 percent Ministry charge), with amortization over periods up to
15 years, depending on the nature of the sub-projiects, including appropriate
grace periods of up to three years (Schedule 2, Draft Development Credit
Agreement). This would give BOA a spread of 2 percent. Under the previous
credit, the effective onlending rate to sub-borrowers was 9-1/2 percent, the
effective cost to BOA was 7 percent and BOA's spread 2-1/2 percent. The for-
eign exchange risk on subloans will be borne by the sub-borrowers.
Use of Proposed Credit
51.       1xcept for an amount equivalent to $100,000 which would be used by
1,A for training purposes, including the service of an adviser or consultants,
and $10,000 for purchase of equipment (see para. 45 above), the proceeds of
the credit woul(d be made available for onlending to both private and public
sector enterprises to finance replacement and new capacity capital expendi-
tures.  Experience with the first credit, which was committed as expected
approximately equally to public and private sector entities, has shown thlat
there continues to be a strong demand from public sector enterprises for for-
eign exchange from BOA, and it is proposed that BOA retain some ability under
the credit to respond to that demand. Since, however, the public sector has
access to foreign exchange allocations through the national budget, whereas
the private sector does not, and since the Government has an expressed policy
of increasing support for private sector activities, a minimum of 65 percent
of the proposed credit will be used for private sector financing, compared
with a minimum of 50 percent under the first credit. BOA expects the proceeds
of the part of the credit used for private sector financing to be spread over
a relatively large nuTmber of medium and small projects covering a number of
industries, as has been the case with the first credit.
52.       SSPIS carries out a full appraisal of all projects.    Public sector
projects are submitted to 1B0A throujgh GOFTI, which carries out its own tech-
nical evaluation.   SS'IS, however, makes its ownl appraisal based on the GO(FT
study, and mainitains the right to reject any public sector project submitted
(atnd has in fact done so). SSPTS has developed a 90ood working relationship
with GOFI. Since SSPIS has been fullv operational for only a short time, its
experience with tterni lending is still limrited.  During the period of the first
credit, satisfactory progress has been made towards improving appraisal pro-
cedures, although there are still weaknesses in engineering and economic as-
sessment of projects which it is hoped that the technical advice to be pro-
vided under the credit will help improve.
53.       The first credit provided that subprojects should have a minimum
internal financial rate of return of 10 percent.    As sub-borrowers will be,
for the first time, assuming; the foreign exchange risk, a minimum financial
rate of return of 15 percent on subprojects will be required under the second
credit, to ensure that sufficiently viable subprojects are selected. In view



of the improvement in appraisal procedures applied by SSPIS for term lending,
and in view of general price increases since 1973, the free limit on indivi-
dual sub-loans will under the proposed credit be set at $250,000 (compared
with $100,000 for the first credit), with an aggregate free limit of $8 mil-
lion (Schedule 2.03(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       BOA at the time of appraisal assures itself of the suitability of
the equipment proposed and of the procurement procedures used. The practice
in Egypt is that licenses to import, through the state-owned foreign trade
corporations, are granted after the appropriate governmental Determination
Committee has assured itself that the proposed procurement is competitive.
While generally somewhat time-consuming, these procedures as applied to BOA's
projects operate in a satisfactory manner. For items to be financed under
the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit, the normal procedures will be con-
tinued as they were under the first credit. As under the first credit, the
draft Development Credit Agreement requires the Government to issue as soon
as needed all permits, import licences and other authorizations required for
carrying out the project (Section 4.02).
55.       The amount of the Credit available for on-lending will be disbursed
against the foreign exchange costs of imported items for subprojects approved
for financing. The period for commitment of funds is two years, and the
credit is expected to be fully disbursed in about 4-1/2 years.
Financial Covenants
56.       Because BOA is basically a commercial bank with the bulk of its
business relating to short-term funds, financial covenants which might be
appropriate for a specialized development finance company (such as a debt/
equity limitation), are not considered appropriate for BOA. The Central Bank
maintains close supervision of BOA, as it does of the other commercial banks.
Therefore the financial covenants, as in the first credit, are those deemed
appropriate given the nature of BOA. In particular, BOA agreed (a) not to
make advance repayment of any outstanding debt which would materially affect
its abilitv to meet its financial obligations, and (h) that it would consult
with the Association on measures to increase its equity base should its medium-
and long-term loan portfolio rise to six times its net worth (Section 3.01-
3.04, draft Project Agreement). BOA would, as under the first credit, monitor
its liqtuiditv position closely and maintain a satisfactory balance between
the maturity of its obligations and the loans it makes.
I.conomic Benefits and .Justification
57.       The pattern of investment under the second credit is expected to
develop along the lines indicated by the use made of the first credit; there-
fore, the quantifiable economic benefits to be expected are likely to be
similar to those of the first credit, preliminary figures for which are set
out in paras. 47 and 48 above. HIowever, there are other contributions of the



project to the Egyptian economy which are difficult to quantify at this re-
latively early stage of BOA's relationship with the Bank Group. BOA is the
Government's designated source of term lending to the private industrial
sector and so the IDA funds constitute the sole foreign exchange available
for private industrial investment purposes from institutional sources.    There-
fore, the credit makes a major contribution to implementation of the Govern-
ment's policy of expansion and diversification of private industry, which in
turn supports its liberalization policy. BOA is an important institution
which has demonstrated its ability to use capital effectively. The relation-
ship between IDA and BOA continues the institution-building effort begun
under the first credit, and provides a continuing opportunity for the Bank
Group to participate in the development of Egypt's industrial financing sys-
tem.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AN1'D AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreemenit between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank of
Alexandria and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
59.       Features of the Development Credit and Project Agreements of special
interest are referred to in paras. 35, 39, 45, 49, 50, 53, 54 and 56 of this
report.
60.       Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement provides, as
additional conditions of its effectiveness,
(a)  the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf
of BOA shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b)  the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrokver and BIOA, respectively shall have
heen dulv authorized or ratififed by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
61.        L am satisfted that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



PART VI - RECOM.?IENDATION
62.       I recommend that   tne Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA - ESYFT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
AREA        2             POPULATION                                                 DENSITY    2
1,002,000 km             36.4 million (mid-1974 - Estimated)                         36.3 per Im,
Rate of Growth: 2.2%                                Over 1000   per kn2 of inhabited area
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1971)                                   HEALTH (1973)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)     35.1                               Population per physician        1,700
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)     13.2                               Population per hospital bed       435
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)  119.0 (1970)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1965)                                          DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP (1965)
. of national income, highest quintile      47.0%                   . owned by top 5.5% of owners    43%
lowest  quintile      4.2%
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER                                               ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
% of population - urban                      ..                     % of population - urban
- rural                     ..                                      - rural
NUTRITION                                                           EDUCATION
Calorie intake as % of requirements        103.0% (1970)            Adult literacy rate               40% (1971)
Per capita protein intake                   83.5% (1969)            Primary school enrollment         70% (1970)
1/
GNP PER CAPITA in 1973 : US $ 250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US $ Mln.       %                      1960-65     1965-70      1970-73     1974
GNP at Market Prices        10,210         100.0                       6.6        3.8         1.9         4.0
Gross Domestic Investment    1,894         18.6                       11.0       -1.1         8.8        25.0
Gross National Saving 2/       533           5.2                        -          -           -           -
Current Account Balance2/   -1,364        -13.4                         -                      _ 
Exports of Goods, NFS        2,196          21.5                       5.0        1.9         (3/)        (3/)
Imports of Goods, NFS        3,603         35.3                        8.0        1.0         (3/)        Q3/)
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added"                       Labor Force                   V. A. Per Worker
USLF Mln.     7                     Mln.        %                    US $        %
Agriculture                 2,902      31.3                    4.22       45.9                  688         68.3
Industry and Mining         2,098      22.6                    1.19      12.9                1,763         174.9
Electricity                   116       1.3                     .04       0.14                2,900        287.7
Construction                  393       4.2                      .41       4.5                  959         95.1
Distribution Sector         1,230      13.3                    1.29      14.0                   953         94.5
Services Sector             2.528      27;3                    2.04      22.2                1,239        122.9
Total/Average             ,         o267  100.0              9.19    100.0                 10            OOo
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central/Federal Government
( $    Mln.)        7 of GDP
(Prelim.) 19?h         1974  1   96 -71
Current Receipts                   2,926         31.6      21.3
Current Expenditure                3,105         33.5       20.7
Current Surplus                    -179                     *0.6
Emergency Fund                    1,308          14.1       9.2
Capital Expenditures              1,492          16.1      11.7
External Financing (net)            202           2.2      -0.4
1/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the same conversion
technique as the 1974 World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are
at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
2/ Excluding unrequited transfer receipts.
3/ Accurate constant price growth rates are not available due to insufficient information concerning
trade deflators.
v4/ At current factor costs.
5/ 1969-71 current receipts and expenditures not oomparable with 1974 data because of differences in methodology
'/ A Government account for special defence facilities and reconstruction, funded by Arab grants and ear-marked
revenue receipts. The operations of the Fund are excluded from the national budget.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2 pages
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                          1971            1972            1973           1974
(Million LE Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                           1,166           1,345           1,633          2,114
Claims on Government                            1,342           1,469           1,656          2,038
Claims on Non-Governmnent Sector                  549             553             531            7G8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                36.0            39.7            44.9           53.2
Consuimar Price Index (1966/67 = 100)            113.6 1/        117.4          122.4           135.7
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                              4.o 2!          2.8            4.3            10.9
Claims on Government                             13.6             9.5            12.7           23.1
Claims on Non-Government Sector                   5.0             0.7            -4.0           48.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-74)
1972     1973     1974                                             US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Raw Cotton                         545     40.7
Exports of Goods              813    1,003    1,674            Yarns and textiles                 218     16.3
Imports of Goods            1,286    1,574    3,207            Rice                                73      5.5
Trade Balance (deficit  A-)           Z571   -I3               Jll other cDmmodities             502    _37.5
Total                      1,338    100.0
Services, Net                   7        6      169
Net Transfers                  295      6l2   1,037             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Balance on Current Account    -1/1       71     7
US $ Mln
Net MLT Borrowing                                                 Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed    2,760
Disbursements              41c       345     522               (ofs which Medium and Long-t3rm)      (1,768)
Amortization               295       420     654
Subtotal                   115      -:75    -1l32 
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197i4
Other Non-Monetary Canital     29       -13      -48                                                      7.
(net)
Overall Balance (surglus +)   -27       -11    -507               Public D)ebt Outstanding & Disbursed  29.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                            IBRD/IDA LENDING, (May 31. 1975) (Million US $):
Through January 1973                                                                           IBRD        IDA
US $ 1.00 =    0.j35
1.00 = US $2.30                                        Outstanding & Disbursed               _        45.6
Undisbursed                        162.0      169.9
Since February 1973                                         Outstanding incl. Undisbursed      l.ro       2T15
us $ 1.00 LE 0.390
1.00 = US $2.56
1/ Due to non-availability of data on calendar year basis, figure refers to "fiscal" year 1970/71.
2/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
July 1, 1975



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT             Page 1 of 4
A. STATIMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1975)
Loan or                                              Amount in million US Dollars
Oradit                                                       Less cancellations
Numbers           Year     Borrower       Purpose     Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR        1959     Suez Canal    Suez Canal    56.5    --       --
Authority      Expansion
Cr 181-UAR        1970     UAR            Nib Delta     --    26.0     12.6
Drainage
Cr 284-UAR        1972     ARE            Railways      --    30.0      5.5
Cr S-13-UARL/     1972     ARE           Cotton Gin-   --      0.2      --
ning Egr.
Cr 393-UAR        1973     ARE            Upper Egypt   --    36.0     34.9
Drainage
Cr 412-uAR        1973     ARE            BOA           --    15.0     12.7
Cr 423-UAR        1973     ARE            Cotton        --    18.5     16.8
Ginning
Cr 437-UAR        1973     ARE            Population    --     5.0      4.9
Cr S-15-UAR_./    1973     ARE            Talkha Engr.  --     0.4
Cr 484-UAR        1974     ARE            Talkha        --    20.0     17.5
Fertilizer
Cr 524-EGT        1974     ARE           Ag/Ind         --    35.0     35.0
Imports I
Ln 1062-EGT       1974     ARE               i        35.0     --      35.0
Ln 1064-EGT       1974     SCA           Suez Canal   50.0     --      50.0
Rehab.
Ln 1085-EGT       1975     ARE           Tourah       40.0     --      40.0
Cement
Ln 1098-EGT       1975     ERO            Railways    37.0     --      37.0
Cr 548-EGT 3/     1975     ARn            Telecommu-   --     30.0     30.0
nications
Totals                                               218.5   216.1    331.9
Of which has been repaid                              56.5     0.6
Total now outstanding                                 162.0  215.5
Amount sold                                  7.4
Of which has been repaid                     6.0       1.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/                     160.6  215.5
Total undisbursed                                                     331.9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1975)                    Nil
1/ Refinanced under eredit 423-UAR
7/ Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
3/ Not yet effective
17/ Excluding exchange adjustments



A:NNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of April
17, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
In 1973 a revised implementation program was prepared, extending
this project until 1978, and the government agreed to take a number of actions
recommended by IDA to improve project performance and provide effective man-
agement. The major problem facing this project up to the end of 1974, of lack
of local funds, has now been resolved by allocation under the 1975 national
budget. The project will probably soon reach the rate of implementation
agreed in 1973 under the revised project schedule. However, in spite of the
recent improvement in project implementation, it wi:Ll not be possible to re-
coup all the time lost and project completion will not now be possible before
December 1979. Because procurement is well advanced, no substantial foreign
cost overrun is expected; the Government has stated that it will continue to
meet local cost overruns that may occur.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9 1972; Closing Date: (i) I)ecember 31, 1975, for track materials, loco-
motives and spare parts; and (ii) September 30, 1976, for signalling and
telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. Most of the pro-
curement contracts have been awarded, and the bulk of the credit has been
committed.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;_
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This Credit was declared effective on June 15, 1973. It has been
fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under Cr. 423 below.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress on both the drainage and the bilharzia control components
of this project was initially slow, but is now reasonably satisfactory. How-
ever, project cost estimates have increased by about 30%, as a result of price
increases. Foreign exchange costs are expected to rise by over 20%, largely
due to price increases of materials for bilharzia control. Discussions are
underway between the Government and the Bank as to how the increases are to
be financed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Bank of Alexandria Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
This Credit became effective on November 29, 1973, and about
$14.6 million of the credit has been committed to sub-projects. BOA is fol-
lowing up with sub-borrowers to speed disbursements.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
This Credit became effective on February 15, 1974. Prices of bids
received in May 1974 for major equipment packages were much higher than ex-
pected, and the total estimated foreign exchange cost is now estimated to be
about $41.5 million. In November, 1974, Saudi Arabia agreed to provide $23
million to finance the cost overrun thus enabling implementation of the proj-
ect as appraised. Awards for most of the major contracts are now being made.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; USS5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The Credit Agreement became effective on March 25, 1974. There
were initial delays but following appointment in November 1974 of a new Co-
ordinator and Executive Director, progress on the construction of clinics has
been reasonably satisfactory. The Consultant Architects have produced a pro-
cedures guide, and design guidelines; executive architects have been appointed
for detailed design of the 40 health clinics and family planning activities.
By the end of 1975 it is expected that most construction contracts will have
been awarded. Approximately 75% of the sites have been selected: they are
being surveyed and acquired. Progress on the program components of the proj-
ect has however been minimal:   discussions are underway with the Government
to overcome obstacles.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1975.
This Credit was declared effective on April 24, 1974. Meanwhile, a
consulting firm, appointed as the technical advisors, did some of the work
covered by this credit and was paid by Egypt. The credit was refinanced under
Cr. 484 below.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24_ 1974; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
This Credit was declared effective on January 22, 1975. The general
contractor has been appointed and work on implementation is proceeding satis-
factorily. The fertilizer sector study is expected to begin in June/July 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-ECT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Closing Date: June 21, 1976 (Credit) and December 21, 1976 (Loan).
This Credit and Loan were approved on December 2, 1974, signed on
December 20, 1974 and declared effective on March 19, 1975. Action on pro-
curement is progressing, and the first disbursements are being processed.
Ln. No. 1064-ECT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
This Loan was approved on December 2, 1974, signed on December 20,
1974, and declared effective on April 21, 1975. Meanwhile progress on proj-
ect implementation has continued, with funds made available by other donors.
The Canal was formally reopened on June 5, 1975.
Ln No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan was approved on January 28, 1975, signed on February 10,
1975 and declared effective on June 9, 1975. Bids were opened according to
schedule on February 1, 1975. Consultants assisted in bid evaluation, and
the contract will be awarded shortly.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This loan was approved on March 20, 1975 and signed on April 2, 1975.
Steps to declare it effective are underway. Meanwhile, action on procurement
and on selection of consultants for the transport sector survey is continuing.
Cr. No. 548-E(T - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
The Credit was approved on May 8, 1975, signed on May 16, 1975.
Steps to declare it effective are underway. Bids for cables are being
evaluated.



ANNEX III
Page 1
EGYPT: SECOND CREDIT TO BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:              Bank of Alexandria (BOA)
Amount:                   $25 million in various currencies
Terms:                    Standard
Onlending Terms:          Government would onlend the IDA credit to BOA at
5 percent per annum plus a Ministry of Finance charge
of 3 percent, making an effective cost to BOA of
8 percent per annum, for a maximum of 17 years
including 3 years of grace. BOA would relend to
sub-borrowers, at 7 percent per annum, plus the
3 percent Ministry of Finance charge, making an
effective cost of 10 percent, in addition to normal
bank charges, for up to 15 years depending on the
forecast financial position of the sub-borrowers and
the expected life of the assets. Foreign exchange
risk would be assumed by sub-borrowers.
Project Description:      To finance part of BOA's foreign exchange require-
ments for its development finance operations through
mid-1977.
Final Date for Sub-
Project Submissions:    June 30, 1977.
Free Limit:               $250,000 for individual sub-loans; $8 million aggre-
gate limit.
Procurement:              Through normal commercial channels.
Estimated
Disbursements:          Calendar Year       1970     1977    1978    1979
Amount (US$'000)    3,000   9,500   9,500   3,000
Technical Assistance:     Provision of $90,000 for:   staff training in Egypt
and overseas; purchase of books for a technical
library; services of a technical adviser or consult-
ants; provision of $10,000 for office calculators
and other office equipment.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Rate of Return:           Minimum internal financial rate of return on sub-
projects: 15 percent p.a.
Projected Balance Sheet
(December 31)
hE Millions
Assets                                 1975          1976           1977
Current Assets                        182.4         195.9         208.2
Net Loan Portfolio                    208.5         224.2          242.9
Other Assets                            0.7           0.8            0.7
Total Assets                    391.6          420.9         451.8
Liabilities & Equity
Current liabilities                   371.6         394.3         416.8
Borrowings                              9.4          15.0           22.3
Equity                                 10.6          11.6           12.7
Total liabilities               391.6          420.9         451.8
Term Loans/Equity as
defined in Credit Agreement:          2.1:1         2.6:1          3.0:1
Projected Earnings:                            bE Millions
Total Earnings                         18.3          20.1           22.0
Total Expenses                         11.7          13.1           14.8
Net Profit                              6.6           7.0            7.2
as /i average net worth              66             64            60
as % year-end share capital          220.0         233.0          240.0
Appraisal Report 797-EGT dated June 27, 1975
,MENA Projects Department



