CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 576 EGT
Project Agreement
(Second BOA Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA (hereinafter called BOA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that BOA agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BOA, the proceeds of the credit provided for tinder the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to BOA on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BOA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.0 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BOA
Section 2.01. BOA shall carry out the Project described in Section 3.01(a) of
the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs with


﻿4
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial
and investment standards and practices under the supervision of qualified
management assisted by qualified personnel in adequate number and in accordance
with the Articles of Association and the Statement of Policy.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, BOA shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Association for approval, BOA shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BOA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the Borrower of the amount
to be used for the investment, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by BOA for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to BOA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment Project shall
provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and BOA
shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of
approval by the Association of the Investment Project, or in the case of a free-limit
sub-loan, of authorization by the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e)   Except as the Association and BOA shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Association on or before June 30, 1977.
Section 2.03. BOA undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby BOA shall obtain,


﻿)
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and BOA,
including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate
in the case of any investment, the right of BOA to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery  ;nd efficiency  and reliability  of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance. against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be
made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investmeni Enterprise to replace
or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Association or BOA
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) su,,spend
or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds
of the sub-lo,, or investment upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with BOA.
Section 2.04. BOA shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and BOA;
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. BOA shall submit to the Association, for its prior approval,
any substantial changes proposed to be made by BOA in respect of the repayment
provisions of any sub-loan,
Section 2.06. BOA shall dIuly perform all its obligations under agreements
under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of BOA by
the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
BOA shall promptly inform the Association of any action which would have the


﻿6
effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
Section 2.07. BOA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BOA shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. BOA shall prepare and furnish to the Association, not later
than December 31, 1975 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
for its comments, and thereafter carry out, a program for the training of the staff
of BOA's Department of Special Services to Private Industrial Sector in
development banking practices and project appraisal and supervision.
Section 2.09. (a) BOA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   BOA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BOA of
its obligations tinder this Agreement and inder the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BOA: (i) shall
not sell, lease, transfer, encumber or otherwise dispose of any of its property or
assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BOA shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. BOA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for


﻿7
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BOA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. BOA shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of BOA which would materially affect the
ability of BOA to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.04. BOA shall consult with the Association concerning the measures
to be taken by BOA to expand its equity base should loans disbursed by BOA
and outstanding, which shall have maturities exceeding one year, at any time, equal
or exceed six times the amount of BOA's unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and
free reserves of BOA and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent equity interests of BOA in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in
BOA or any other subsidiary.
Section 3.05. BOA shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Egyptian Pounds) used
in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of BOA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; )r
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿8
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BOA of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as sLIch party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BOA:
Bank of Alexandria
49, RUe Kasr El Nil
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
BANALEX
Cairo


﻿9
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BOA may be taken or executed by the Chairman of BOA's Board of Directors
or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. BOA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of BOA, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by BOA pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
By /s / Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representative


