CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 576 EGT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second BOA Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 576 EGT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second BOA Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 30, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1975, between THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Section 3.01(a) of this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  The Project will be carried out by the Bank of Alexandria with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Bank of Alexandria the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C)  The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Bank of Alexandria;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1,01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, cated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fNlly set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule I to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BOA" means the Bank of Alexandria established by a decision of
the Board of Directors of the Borrower's Economic Organization issued on
March 25, 1957 and sanctioned by a Presidential Decree dated April 16, 1957;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BOA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BOA pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
BOA out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BOA under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by BOA out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BOA
under a subsidiary loan agreement in an investment enterprise for an investment
project;
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which BOA proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment;
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an investment enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment;
(h)   "Egyptian Pounds" and the sign and letter ".E" mean the currency
of the Borrower;
(i)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower;
(i)   "Articles of Association" means the Articles of Association of BOA
approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower's Economic Organization on
March 25, 1975, and appended to the Presidential Decree dated April 16, 1957;
(k)   "Statement of Policy" means the "General Policy Guidelines for BOA's
Term Lending Operations" approved by the Board of Directors of BOA on
April 24, 1973, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and as the same may
be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Associadon;


﻿(1)   "Subsidiary" means any compa.iy of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary "ipterest is owned or is effectively
controlled by BOA or by any one or more subslQiaries of BOA or by BOA and
one or more of its subsidiaries; and
(in)  "First Development Credit Agreement" neais the Development Credit
Agreement dated June 29, 1973 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount   in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  twenty-five  million  dollars
($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower designates BOA as its representative for the
purpose of taking any action required or permitted under the provisions of Section
2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) BOA shall, acting on behalf of the Borrower plursuant to
Section 2.02 of this Agreement, be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
(1) expenditures in foreign currency for an Investment Project (or, if the Association
shall so agree, such amounts as shall be required to meet expenditures in foreign
currency to be made) to finance the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; (II)
amounts expended in foreign currency (or, if the Association shall so agree, such
amounts as shall be required to meet expenditures in foreign currency to be made)
to finance, up to an aggregate amount of $90,000 equivalent, the reasonable cost
of the training of BOA staff included in the Project; and (111) amounts expended
in foreign currency (or, if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall
be required to meet expenditures in foreign currency to be made) to finance, up
to an aggregate amount of S10,000 equivalent, the reasonable cost of such office
equipment for BOA, as shall be agreed with the Association, provided, however,
that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless
(i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the Association; or
(ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from  the Credit Account.
(b)   A, free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an investment project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed


﻿6
the sum of (i) $250,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or under
the First Development Credit Agreement for such Investment Project or (ii)
$8,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts
being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Association.
(c)   Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an investment
enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in respect
of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before the date of
this Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and
information required by Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement or, under a
free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required. by Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 3 1, 1979 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of WrY) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1985 and ending May 1. 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (01-/29') of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4,02 of the General Conditions.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project for which the Credit is granted
is to assist BOA in financing the development of productive facilities and resources
in the territories of the Borrower. The Project consists in: (i) the financing by
BOA   of specific development projects through loans to and investments in
enterprises in the territories of the Borrower; and (iH) the training of the staff
of BOA's Department of Special Services to Private Industrial Sector in development
banking practices and project appraisal and supervision and the provision of office
eqLiplmen t to said Department.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of' the Credit to BOA under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BOA
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
including the principal terms set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4,01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or any agency or
instrumentality of any of its political subdivisions., to take any action which would
prevent or materially interfere with the performance by BOA of any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on
its part in order to enable BOA to perform such obligations.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall issue o' cause to be issued, promptly as
needed, all permits. import licenses and all other authorizations required for the
carrying out of the Project.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of BOA
under the Project Agreement;
(b)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to BOA (other than
deposits) having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance
with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided
in the relative contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall
have become enforceable;
(c)   a change shall have been made in the Articles of Association which
will materially and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of BOA;
(d)   the Statement of Policy shall have been amended without prior
approval of the Association;
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by BOA, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would materially
and adversely affect the conduct of BOA's business, its financial situation, the
efficiency of its management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(f)   BOA shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BOA or by others whereby
any of the assets of BOA shall or may be distributed among its creditors; and
(g)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BOA or for the
suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the events specified in paragraplhs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and BOA; and


﻿9
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (b), (d), (e), (f) or (g) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of BOA
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and BOA, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BOA, and is legally binding upon BOA
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BOA, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and BOA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 28, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.0.1. The Minister of Economy and Economic Cooperation of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                              Telex:
Ministry of Economy and                     GAFEC
Economic Cooperation                   348 UN
8 Adly Street
Cairo
For the Association:
International Developimnt Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C, 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s / Ashraf Ghorbal
Authorized Representatie
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Martijn Paijimans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The following subparagraphs are added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
"14. The term 'BOA' means the Bank of Alexandria established by
a decision of the Board of Directors of the Borrower's Economic Organization
issued on March 25, 1957 and sanctioned by a Presidental Decree dated
April 16. 1957."
(2)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cmcellation h' the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days. or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02(e) of the Project
Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph (a) or
paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Association
in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit
shall remain unIwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may
by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of BOA to submit such
applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
in behalf of the Borrower, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The following are the principal terms under which the proceeds of the Credit
shall be lent by the Borrower to BOA, and by BOA to Investment Enterprises:
1.    Lending Terms - the Borrower to BOA:
(a)   Term: 17 years including a grace period of three years.
(b)   Interest and Ministry of Finance Charge: not less than 8% per annum
on outstanding balance.
2.    Lending Terms - BOA to Investment Enterprises;
(a)   Term: Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the term shall
not be more than fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Association of the Investment Project or of authorization by the
Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect
thereof.
(b)   Interest and Ministry of Finance Charge: shall not be less than 10%
per annum  on outstanding balance.
(c)   The Investment Enterprise shall assume all foreign exchange risks in
respect of the proceeds of sub-loans.


