Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A.A/ 6 qS6 7-~cWAJ
Report No. P-4801-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TH8
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USg200.0 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 72.2 MILLION (US$100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
June 3, 1988
Country Department III
Agricultural Operations Division
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 30, 1988)
Currency Unit       Yuan
US$1.00         =   Y 3.72
Y 1.00          =   US$0.27
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABC          -   Agricultural Bank of China
BOC          -   Bank of China
BOP          -   Balance of International Payments
CAAS         -   Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CASS         -   Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
CEROILS      -   China National Cereals, Oils & Foodstuffs Import & Export
Corporation
CATIC        -   China Agribusiness Trust and Investment Corporation
CITIC        -   China International Trust and Investment Corporation
ICBC         -   Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
LGRR         -   Leading Group for Rural Reform    a ministerial-level
steering committee
LIV          -   Loan Implementation Volume
NAAF         -   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheri,as
MACHIMPEX    -   China National Machinery Import and Export Corporat ont
MIREP        -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
mOp          -   Ministry of Finance
MOFERT       -   Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
NPC          -   National People's Congress
PBC          -   People's Bank of China
PRS          -   Household Production Responsibility System
RCC          -   Rural Credit Cooperatives
RCRD         -   Research Center for Rural Development, a policy arm of the
State Council
RRP          -   Regional Reform Program
RSAL         -   Rural Sector Adjustment Loan
SINOCHEM     -   China National Chemicals Import and Export Corporation
SLA          -   State Land Administration
SPC          -   State Planning Commission
TVE          -   Township and Village Enterprises, Collectively and Privately-
Owned
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Credit Summary
Borrower:           The People's Republic of China
Amounts:            US$200.0 million equivalent
SDR 72.2 million (US$100.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Loan - 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Credit - standard, with 35 years maturity
Description:        The proposed loan and credit would support inception of
the second phase of rural economic reform in China. The
main objectives are to foster agricultural development and
specialization; increase economic efficiency; encourage
non-farm rural enterprises--both industrial and
commercial; expand rural exports; provide productive off-
farm employment opportunities; reduce agricultural and
urban food subsidies; improve agricultural tax buoyancy;
and improve the range and efficiency of rural financial
services. To achieve these objectives, actions taken to
initiate the second phase in 1987 will be deepened in 1988
and 1989 in the following key policy areas (i) agri-
cultural and food price and trade liberalization, while
ensuring protection of low income consumers; (ii) market-
ing and market integration, (iii) rural land system
reform; (iv) rural industrialization and commercial
activities; (v) marketing and service systems in the less
commercialized areas by establishing special and general
purpose cooperatives; (vi) state-level support for public
agricultural investment; and (vii) rural financial market
reforms. Typical of China's approach, the reforms are
being introduced first at the regional levels under
central government supervision, then will be generalized
for nationwide implementation. The proceeds of the
proposed loan and credit would finance a program of
imports, to consist of commodities and raw materials for
the rural sector, agricultural inputs, and machinery,
equipment and spares. A formal progress review would be
scheduled not later than June 1989, when judgments would
be made concerning the appropriateness of additional Bank
support for the second phase program.
Benefits and
Risks:            The second phase program aims to create a more favorable
environment for overali economic and sectoral development
in a time of increasingly severe resource constraints. In
particular, this program has been designed to make the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the peformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
rural economy a more efficient producer of agricultural
and industrial products and expotts; reduce marketing
costs and budgetary subsidies in the food products
assembly chain; stimulate private enterprise and the
mobilization of savings in rural financial markets;
improve rural incomes, while targeting urban food
subsidies; and establish more buoyant and equitable
agricultural taxation. The risks of the program relate to
the possible adverse social and political pressures,
unpredictable developments in the non-rural sectors and
the risk of premature, spontaneous replication of the
regional reform programs before these have been refined
under central supervision. These risks are limited by the
Government' s strong commitment and pragmatism, steps
alread4y announced to place the second phase in motion, and
the inherent flexibility in the regional testing approach.
Estimated
Disbursements:    The proceeds of the loan and credit would disburse without
tranching as per the following schedule:
Window:                                FY89     FY90
(US$ million
equivalent)
IDA                                    100.0       -
IBRD                                   100.0    100.0
Annual                                 200.0    100.0
Cumulative                            200.0    300.0
Appraisal Report:   This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report
Map:                No. IBRD 20863



- iii -
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN SUMMARY
PART I:     COUNTRY SITUATION........................................          1
A. An Overview.............. ............................         1
B.  Stabilization and Adjustment Policies...............          2
C.  The Sequencing of Overall Reform.....................         4
PART II:    RESTRUCTURING THE RURAL ECONOMY:  PHASE I ................         5
A.  The First Phase Program (1979-1986)....--..--*----0..         5
B.  Rural Sector Performance                                      7
C. Performance Prospects and Policy
n e q u i    s     i    t     e    s       ~~~~~~~~~~10
PART III:   DEEPENING THE RURAL REFORMS:  PHASE II...................         13
A.  Rationale and Thrust of the New Program gram00........       13
B. Medium-Term Policy  Pra oewo.                         k       14
C.  Program Implementationplementation...................        15
D.  Social Ip....                                                22
PART IV:    THE PROPOSED LOAN ........................................        23
A.  Bank's Role and Rationale.........................,..        23
B.  Loan Format and Administration.......................        25
C.  Coordination and Monitoring          .........................  26
D.  Program Benefits and Risks...........................        27
PART V:     BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA ...........................0    28
PART VI:    RELATIONS WITH IMF   ...........     ..............              29
PART VII:   RECOMME¢DATIONM.......e........ . . ..               O N..... ..........  30
ANNEXES
1.   Country and Sector Tables
2.   The Status of Bank Group Operations in China
3.   Supplementary Project Data Sheet
4.   Statement of Rural Reform Policies
5.   Matrix of Rural Reforms
6.   Main Regional Reform Programs Under Central Supervision
7. Contents of Loan Implementation Volume



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD AND IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN
AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200.0 MILLION AND A PROPOSED
CREDIT OF SDR 72.2 MILLION (US$100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit to the People's Republic of China, for the equivalent of US$200
million and SDR 72.2 million in support of the second phase of its ongoing
program to restructure China's rural economy. This program is described in a
Statement of Rural Reform Policies, received from the Government in May 1988
(Amnex 4). The Loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The credit would have
standard terms, with a 35 year maturity.
PART I - COUNTRY SITUATION
2.        In 1980, China embarked on a far-reaching program of economic
reform. Beginning with the rural sector, this program has developed ra.pidly
in both depth and scope, now touching virtually all aspects of social, econo-
mic and political life in the country. It has achieved in many areas 3pecta-
cular success and gained widespread international attention. The Bank 1&ts
been an active partner in this process. Economic Reports titled "Finance a
Investment" (Report No. 6445-CHA: June 11, 1987) and "External Trade &
Capital" (Report No. 6690-CHA: October 20, 1987) have been distributed to. the
Executive Directors.
A. An Overview
3.        Almost ten years have elapsed since China's 11th Party Congress took
the landmark decision during its Third Plenary Session to readjust and
restructure the economy. Armed with this mandate, the Chinese leadership
embarked on the first phase of what promises to be a far-reaching program of
administrative decentralization and market mediated development. The positive
signs are the pace at which GNP has increased-by 10X p.a. over the reform
period as a whole; the extraordinary responsiveness of savings to rising
incomes; the strength of investment; the growth of commodity exports and their
changing composition which by 1987 had seen the share of manufactures rise to
over 64X; near equilibrium in the balance of payments; and a comfortable
reserve and debt situation.
4.        But easing the controls on publicly-owned enterprises, with access
to subsidies to cover their poor marketing and production decisions, has
uncovered an investment hunger which is held in check only through great
vigilance on the part of the central authorities. Partial price reform has
led to mounting subsidies to enterprises and urban consumers (about 30% of the



-2-
state budget in 1987), while profit retention by firms operating under the new
incentive regime has eaten into government revenues. Although the tax/GNP
ratio is still a respectable 23% (1987), fiscal maneuverability has been
reduced and the authorities have to contend with a budget deficit equal to
2.3% of GDP. In recent years, credit expansion by 20-30% p.a. has given a
further twist to aggregate demand pressures. The result has been inflation of
20Z in,free markets and 7.5Z p.a. increase in the overall retail price index
during 1986-87.
5.        The reforms and their impact have been most pronounced in the rural
sector, which continues to account for the main livelihood of over 800 million
rural people. Since 1979 the introduction of the Household Production
Responsibility System, dismantling of communes, and the separation (at the
local level) of political decision-making from economic management have
profoundly restructured rural economic activity. Beginning in 1979, in
recognition that the benefits from ccllectivized management had run their
course, land use rights were progressively transferred to farm households,
pricing and markets were increasirgly liberalized, and a policy environment
was adopted to encourage decentralized management in the rural segments of
secondary and tertiary industries. The result has been an explosion of growth
in rural manufacturing and services over the past decade (22% p.a.), and a
very high rate of growth in the agricultural sector (6.6Z p.a.). Perhaps the
most significant achievement, however, has been the massive shift of more than
60 million farm laborers which occurred between 1979-1987, from the unproduc-
tive make-work environment that characterized China's agricultural sector
prior to decollectivization, to the dynamic rural non-farm sectors. In
parallel, agriculture has been revitalized. Since 1980, the sector has
witnessed a rapid expansion of cash cropping, non-staple foot production and
agricultural foreign trade. Reforms, abetted by substantial ificreases in
producer prices, the progressive removal of restrictions on most commodity
markets and--increasingly--on input distribution activity, and by three
successive years of good weather, not only yielded record harvests with grain
production peaking in 1984, but also made China for the first time a net
exporter of foodstuffs (though in recent years, China has been reverting
towards foodgrain deficits).
B. Stabilization and Adjustment Policies
6.        After 1984, the Chinese policymakers began to tackle the more
difficult hurdle which involved extending the reforms to the urban-based
industrial sector and using profit incentives, enterprise autonomy and the
dismantling of some price contrels to coax forth the dynamism that has trans-
formed the rural economy. The economic decision-makers also found that each
round of liberalization triggered an upuelling of investment, with consequent
strain on the BOP, and that increased consumer demand backed by a sizeable
growth in household incomes became a threat to both price stability and the
trade balance. Since 1985, additional measures have been taken to rein in the
current account deficit, which in 1985 had swelled to -4.2% of GDP, largely
through imports of consumer goods and equipment.
7.        Inflation.  Following a 30-year period of near total price stabi-
lity, inflationary pressure first became noticeable in 1985 with the retail



- 3 -
price index climbing ne4rly 9 points and free market prices by 172. The in-
crease in prices slowed during 1986, but last year, the tempo quickened once
again, approaching the levels reached in 1985. Though quite mild by inter-
national comparison, inflation in China is a source of official concern be-
cause urban consumers and enterprise operators are still not accustomed to
rising prices (or for that matter, to fluctuations of any kind). The persis-
tence of inflation can be traced to a number of factors. Repressed demand,
backed up by substantial accumulated savings is very large. Because the
supply of quality consumer goods is not growing at a sufficient pace, their
prices ere pushed upward in the more liberal market evvironment. Demand-
switching from scarce consumer goods to foodstuffs, whose supplies have also
increased slowly in the past two years, has spread inflation to rural
markets. Demand pull has been reinforced by rising labor costs in state-owned
enterprises (SOEs), which still account for 57.5% of the country's total
industrial output value, though the share is declining rapidly in favor of
collectively-owned (40.2%) and private (2.3%) enterprises. Finally, monetary
policy has also contributed to the price spiral. Total credit grew by 33% in
1986 and by over 30% in 1987, possibly injecting more liquidity into the
system than was desirable under the circumstances.
8.        Since the last quarter of 1987 the authorities have begun stemming
the growth of credit. They have also, temporarily, suspended their efforts at
SOE price reform for fear that inflation might worsen. The danger is that
price controls may aggravate supply shortages of foodstuffs and consumer
goods, the rapid growth of which is necessary to help solve the problem of
inflation. And while slowing credit growth will be necessary to dampen
inflationary pressures, a credit crunch could cause widespread hardship in the
enterprise sector, sapping industrial momentum and damaging the often tenuous
financial health of collective and state firms alike.
9.        Public Sector Deficits.  With reforms having to be sequenced so as
to avoid overstraining the administrative apparatus and exceeding the
economy's absorptive capacity, transitional budgetary stresses have reduced
fiscal maneuverability. Partial price reform, by raising purchase prices
without compensating increases in the prices at which goods are sold to urban
consumers, has resulted in an escalation of subsidies to enterprises and
consumers. Whereas in the past, enterprise earnings were the major source of
state revenues, industrial reforms permitting greater profit retention by
firms have reduced the flow into the exchequer and this has yet to be
counterbalanced by revenues from new indirect and income taxes introduced
during 1984-85. The problems faced by many enterprises in adapting to the new
environment have also reduced their incomes and hence, tax payments to the
state. Finally, revenues have been affected by curbs on the imports of
dutiable consumer goods, which were introduced to narrow the trade gap.
10.       After dropping to 0.5% of GDP in 1985, the budget deficit has risen
in each of the last two years reaching 2.3% of GDP in 1987. A third of this
was financed through foreign borrowing, the balance by the banking system and
the sale of bonds. The government will need to control the drain from subsi-
dies and lo3s-making enterprises. On the revenue side, it has to refine the
tax instruments that have been brought into use so as to increase and stabi-
lize revenues. A number of alternatives are being considered and these along



-4-
with improved enterprise performance made possible by the reforms should help
restore budgetary belance over the medium term.
11.       Current Account.  An easing of controls on the use of foreign
exchange by enterprises and local bodies together with the removal of some
restrictions on the import of consumer durables resulted in an enormous surge
of imports in 1985. The balance of trade registered a $12.6 billion
deficit. Even though imports were reduced in 1986, falling oil prices and a
modest increase in other exports kept revenues from growing; the trade gap
narrowed but it was still $7.5 billion. In 1987, further checks on consumer
imports and a sharp increase in the export of light consumer goods, electro-
nics and machinery helped bring about a significant improvement in the trade
pictu.e. Merchandise export earnings rose to $31.1 billion (largely
reflecting the depreciation of the dollar) while imports decreased to
$32.3 billion.
12.       The prospective trade deficits are manageable, though medium term
projections are worrisome (Annex 1). There is an accumulated backlog of
import dkuand resulting from past import restrictions. China is quickly
maturing i.'to a trad.tng nation likely to rival the East Asian NICs in light
manufacturea, certain types of machinery and possibly transport equipment.
Should manufactured exports continue their rapid advance, it should be
possible to gradually relax import controls without severely endangering the
external accounts.
C. The Sequencing of Overall Reform
13.       Though progress has been mixed because of the difficulty of
coordinating macro-stabilization, enterprise reform, general price reform, and
other key macro-reforms, the Chinese Government is committed to reforming
nearly every aspec: of the economy, including prices, the tax system, trade,
the financial system, wages and employment, and enterprise autonomy. Domestic
credit targets under the IMF's 1986-87 stand-by arrangement were exceeded, but
the government moved to restrict credit in the second half of 1987. Recent
pronouncements have stressed government intentions to limit credit expansion
and aggregate investment. Growth of credit in 1988 is targeted to be well
below last year's >-*-*<l. Major steps on enterprise reform are being
implemented. The contract system of enterprise management has spread to about
87X of the State-owned enterprises (SOEs), many of which have been relieved of
compulsory production targets. In April 1988, a new state-enterprise law was
enacted which would, together with the application of bankruptcy regulations,
make SOEs more accountable for losses. The Government intends to enact a
township-village enterprise (TVE) law in 1989 to clarify property
relationships and operating rules, primarily for collectively-owned TVEs. In
April 1988, the Constitution was formally amended to sanction private
enterprise, while by end 1989, the Government intends to enact a private
enterprise law and bankruptcy regulations to clarify the business environment
for this small but rapidly growing business form.
14.       General price reform is recognized to be an essential element to the
overall reform effort. But decontrolling urban and state sector pricing has
proved a most sensitive undertaking, and the Government in 1987 partially



-5-
reversed some earlier liberalization measures. Progress on price reform is
dependent on further progress on state enterprise reform, viz. the SOEs must
be subjected to a hard budget constraint including some enterprise
restructuring and the genuine threat of bankruptcy before they will be
responsive to price changes.
15.       Pending general price reform, some other macroeconomic reforms will
also be delayed. It would be unwise to unify tax rates across sectors until
the general price structure has been rationalized, though the Government plans
to develop a full-fledged reform of the agricultural taxation system in 1988
and 1989, which later will be implemented nationwide to improve the buoyance
of tax yields from this dynamic sector. Progress on macro-stabilization and
enterprise reform should establish the preconditions the authorities consider
necessary for a major initiative on general price reform. Meanwhile, the
government plans to undertake reforms in grain pricing on a regional pilot
basis in 1988 as part of the second phase of rural sector reform. China is
go.ng ahead with trade reforms and has cecently announced programs which will
encourage an expansion of direct trading rights and foreign exchange retention
rights in certain sectors. The Government recognizes that there are policy
areas where further changes can take place independently of full stabilization
and general price reform. This is particularly true of rural sector reform,
for which major new initiatives are being laid down and implemented.
PART II - RESTV"T',rUUINC THE RURAL ECONOMY: PHASE I
A. The First Phase Program (1979-1986)
16.       The policy directives of the Government in November 1978 outlined a
number of bold new measures to stimulate rural growth and structural change.
Reform objectives stressed improved production incentives and incomes for
producers, an important shift from earlier policies designed in part to
extract surpluses from the countryside to support the country's industrializa-
tion drive. In 1979, the Government raised the state purchase prices for 18
major farm products, including grains, oilseeds, cotton, live pigs, beef
cattle, sheep and aquatic products, by about 25X. This was followed by price
reductions for selected agricultural inputs and some upward adjustment in
consumer prices (and subsidies) for non-staple foods, including meat, eggs and
vegetables. In 19a1-84 further price increases were announced for cotton and
oilseeds, multi-year grain purchase agreements (quotas) were made with
producers, above quota sales were permitted at free market prices, and the
number of farm products whose prices were under state control was reduced from
46 to 12.
17.       Improved price incentives were acc¢mpanied by reforms of the agri-
cultural production system which linked remuneration more closely to farmer
initiative and effort. The production responsibility system (PRS), first
practiced clandestinely by a small group of farmers in Anhui Province, then
extended officially to China's poorer areas in 1980 and 1981, effectively
decoliectivized agricultural production by transferring decision making to
individual farm households and giving producers new freedoms to produce and



-6-
market a wider range of farm products. Farmer confidence in the reforms, and
incentives for on-farm investment, were enhanced in 1984 when the Government
permitted 15-year leases for land under annual crops (longer leases for tree
crops). Other tenure improvements included provision for inter-generational
transfer of leaseholds and opportunities for subleasing of land. By 1984, the
communal system of organization had been officially phased out in favor of the
traditional township and village. The township was recognized as the lowest
level of government administration and provision made for the establishment of
non-governmental village committees which were to mediate civil disputes,
maintain public order and serve as the communication link with township
authorities.
18.       An agricultural boom was induced by rural economic liberalization
and better producer price incentives. It has been estimated that the X-
efficiency effects alone, stemming from spread of the PRS and the farmers'
initiatives thereby unleashed, accounted for 60% of China's agricultural
growth between 1980-1984. By end-1984, China had been transformeQ -'rom
chronic agricultural scarcity to an unaccustomed abundance. The years 1985
and 1986 were thus years of adjusting to a new reality.
19.       In 1985 the state procurement system for agricultural products
underwent a major change in further efforts to move away from compulsory
deliveries to the state and in response to good grain harvests, the emergence
of crop surpluses in some locations and growing consumer subsidies. Key
features of the new system included: (i) contracting arrangements with indivi-
dual producers which provided for sale to the state of specific quantities at
stated prices (the latter generally less than free market levels) and
(ii) freedom to sell above-contract quantities on the open market with no
price guarantee. The partial liberalization of grains in 1985 received
special emphasis. Here, a modified "two-tier" procurement system was
introduced, consisting of contract (quota) sales at administered prices, and
above-quota sales in free markets at market prices or with the state and
provincially owned grain agencies at near-market level prices negotiated with
local communities. In parallel, quota prices have been progressively
increased. In 1987, these averaged about 70% of the prevailing negotiated
prices. The Government has continued to reduce the volume of grain purchased
under contract--from 75 million tons in 1985 to about 50 million tons in 1987
(the latter about 15% of production). Since 1985, the Government has been
purchasing about 20X of annual grain production, either through contract or
(at higher prices) by negotiated sales. The balance of production is consumed
by farm families or sold in the free market. To foster more realistic pricing
for farm inputs, a two-tiered pricing system has also been introduced for
fertilizers produced above Plan, though retail subsidies were reestablished in
1985 to encourage farmers to accept grain delivery quotas.
20.       Marketing systems for farm products have been made more flexible.
Rural free markets were reinstituted in 1979 and expanded rapidly to about
63,000 by 1986. In 1983, the Government announced a key new policy which
permitted individuals and commercial organizations to engage in the purchase,
transport, processing and sale of farm products in excess of state purchase
requirements. In 1978, more than 90% of the value of China's agricultural
production was accounted for by products subject to administered pricing; by



-7-
the end of 1985, t;-is had declined to 40%.  At the retail level, subsidies for
meat, poultry, eggs, aquatic products and vegetables were substantially
reduced or eliminated in most urban areas during 1985 and 1986. Despite the
reimposition of pork rationing by mtjor cities (para. 25), free markets now
iccount for more than 50X of all pork marketings and three-quarters of egg and
vegetable sales.
21.       The outflow of labor from agriculture permitted by the reforms
provided new impetus to rural non-farm activity. Rural industry began to
shift from the simple processing of farm products, manufacture of building
materials for local use and manufacture or repair of simple agricultural tools
and equipment to more advanced processing and manufacturing activities.
Sources of raw materials were diversified and efforts were made to sell a
larger share of product outside the local community. To encourage rural
industrialization, TVE prices have been set free as a matter of policy unless
the enterprise sells to or distributes on behalf of SOEs still subject to
administered pricing. Rural enterprises have developed with exceptional speed
since 1978, although growth rates are now slowing somewhat and some issues
remain to be resolved, including ownership of assets taken over from communes
and brigades, poorly-defined commercial codes, occasional ideological
ambivalence by local governments over these activities, and credit and market-
ing constraints.
B. Rural Sector Performance
22.       Production.  In 1980-87 the rural sector expanded by more than IOZ
p.a., or at least three times the rate of the previous 25 years. Agriculture
expanded by 7.2% p.a. in 1982-87; rural non- 4riculture by more than 20% (cf.
Annex 1, Tables 4-8 and the Loan Implementation Volume (LIV), Working Paper
No. 1). Grain production (1979-87) grew on average by 3.3%, or about 45%
faster than in the earlier period. Cotton output expanded b7 9.9% p.a., a
development which permitted China to move within a period of less than five
years from being the world's largest importer of raw cotton to export of about
550,000 tons annually. By 1987, the value of rural non-agricultural output
exceeded the value of output from agriculture. Rural non-farm employment grew
very rapidly during this period, with part- and full-time employment in
township and village enterp? ies rising from 8.3 million to about 50
million. In 1986 alone some nine million people left agriculture to work in
rutal industry and by the end of that year some 79 million rural laborers (22%
of the rural labor force) were engaged in rural non-farm activities.
23.       The sources of this agricultural growth are notable.  With the
exception of chemical fertilizer and machine harvesting services, physical
inputs into crop production declined. Comparing 1986 with 1978, the cropped
area fell by 3.9%, the irrigated area by 1.8%, labor inputs by 1.2% and the
tractor ploughed area by 11.4%. In contrast, nutrient applications of
chemical fertilizer per cropped ha rose by 130%. Econometric analysis of
agricultural growth in 1980-83, when the subsector was expanding by about 8%
p.a., suggests that about 60% of the increase was due to institutional reform



(movement 1? the PRS), 25Z to input and technology changes and 152 to price
increases.-
24.       Incomes and Consumption.  During 1978-87 rural net per capita
incomes rose from less than Y 150 to about Y 450 in nominal terms and more
than 102 p.a. in real terms. Agriculture's terms of trade (prices received
compared with prices paid for production inputs and consumer goods) rose by
about 65X. Rural income sources have become increasingly diversified, with
the share of cash incomes rising from 40X to 65% during the period and income
from rural non-farm sources increasing from 7X to 231 of the total. Dietary
patterns improved-in the rural areas per capita consumption of grain and pork
rose by more than 30Z and 80X, respectively. With higher incomes after a long
period of relative stagnation, farmers began improving their housing--average
living space per capita rose from about 8 m sq to over 15 m sq during this
time.
25.       Urban residents also gained.  The quantity, variety and quality of
farm produce available in the cities improved substantially and by the end of
1986, long-standing rationing systems had been abolished for meat, poultry,
eggs, fish and vegetables. Consumers began to move away from their
traditional heavily grain-based diet--per capita grain consumption declined
marginally as intake of meat and poultry rose by about 20% (1978-86). Early
in 1988 the municipalities of Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai announced the
reimposition of pork rationing, although this restriction was expected to be
short-lived. On the other hand, Sichuan authorities recently moved to free
all controls from pork marketing in urban areas in order to limit provincial
consumer subsidies on this product which had more than doubled in two years to
Y 37 million.
26.       The reforms have been instrumental in reducing rural poverty.  In
1978 more than 802 of rural households had net incomes averaging less than
Y 200 p.a.; by 1987 this had fallen to less than 152. Although higher product
prices are important explanatory factors, rapid growth of agriculture and
rural industry made important contributions. While virtually all areas
benefitted, income gains have been uneven. Within the rural areas, income
disparities narrowed slightly in 1978-82, reflecting the early adoption of the
PRS in the poorest areas. After 1982 rural income differentials began to
increase as the PRS spread to the more favorably endowed areas and growth of
rural industry accelerated. Average rural net per capita income in the
eastern provinces grew at 14.72 in 1980-86, as compared with 11.4% in the
western provinces. In 1980 average rural net incomes in the eastern provinces
were 27% greater than those in western provinces; by 1986 this difference
increased to 512. Growth of the rural non-farm economy also has been uneven-
with the coastal regions generally experiencing more rapid growth than the
interior provinces. Between 1980 and 1985, the nominal value of rural indus-
trial output rose by more than 4002 in Zhejiang Province, but only 322 in
1/  Lin, Justin Yifu, "Household Farms, Cooperative Farms and Efficiency:
Evidence from Rural De-Collectivization in China"--Discussion Paper
No. 91, Department of Economics, University of Hong Kong, October 1987.



- 9 -
Inner Mongolia. In eight provinces this increase was greater than 250Z; in
seven it was below 120X.
27.       Savings.  Growth of rural incomes has fueled a dramatic increase in
savings and liquidity. In the 1978-85 period, rural savings deposits per
capita increased from Y 7 to Y 85 while total rural savings deposits rose from
Y 5.6 billion to Y 76.6 billion. Another Y 10-20 billion of rural cash
holdings may remain outside the formal financial system. Even though average
per capita income in the countryside is about half that in urban areas, rural
households save a larger proportion of incomes than do urban households (about
20% vs 8%). This may reflect more limited availability of consumer goods in
r-iral areas, but also is due to the fact that rural households must finance
some services (housing, medical care, retirement) which in urban areas are
usually provided by the employees' work units. A major objective of rural
financial reforms is to mobilize a larger share of these increased savings for
directly productive purposes.
28.       Investment.  Rural economic growth occurred in an environment of
generally declining budgetary support from the Central Government. Public
sector investment in agriculture (agriculture, water conservancy, forestry,
meteorology) fell sharply from Y 6.3 billion in 1979 to Y 3.5 billion in 1981,
then increased to Y 5.5 billion in 1986. The recurrent budget for agriculture
appears to have undergone little change from an annual range of Y 8-9 bil-
lion. Agriculture's share in the government's capital construction expendi-
ture fell steadily from 12.52 in 1979 to 4.6% in 1986. Statistics on private
investment by farmers are not available and information in this regard is
largely anecdotal. Under the stimuli of the PRS and longer-term land
contracts, farmers are increasing tree plantings on privately controlled lots
and giving the plantings improved care. With the move toward farmer-
controlled plots, private ownership of draft animals has increased. In 1986
90% of purchases of walking tractors, and a rapidly-expanding share of truck
purchases, were by individual farmers. The reintroduction of rural works
programs for maintenance of irrigation infrastructure mobilized an estimated
two billion worker days in 1987 which, if conservatively valued at Y 4/work
day, would imply investment at least as hi&h as public expenditure for capital
construction in agriculture.
29.       Foreign Trade.  Steady increases in grain production during the
reform period permitted China to expand grain exports (corn, rice, soybeans)
to an average of about 8.7 million tons in 1985-87. Although China emerged
briefly as a net grain exporter in 1985-86, growing domestic demand for wheat
and corn, coupled with slowing growth rates in production, led to net grain
imports in 1987 provisionally estimated at 8.6 million tons (gross grain
imports of about 16.0 tons). In addition to grain, China continues to be a
sizeable importer of other farm products, including sugar, wool, edible oils
and natural rubber. Major efforts are being made to expand agricultural
exports, including high-v&lued products such as live pigs, aquacultural
products and horticultural specialties.



- 10 -
C. Performance Prospects and Policy Requisites
30.       Prospects.  Rural economic growth and structural change since 1979
has proceeded considerably faster than was generally anticipated at that
time. The rural sector's performance prospects remain sound. The main issue
for agricultural development is whether continued production growth can be
fostered, at a rate and with an output mix which will meet the changing size
and structure of demand without either food prices or imports increasing at
unacceptable rates. Failure in this regard would lead to a slowdown of
internal reform and external trade liberalization. For the TVE subsector and
other non-farm rural commercial activities, a strategic question for the
medium-term is whether output growth will prove sufficient to absorb enough of
the rural labor force into producti'- employment to maintain buoyant per
capita growth for the rural sector as a whole.
31.       Performance projections to 1995 for both subsubsectors were prepared
at appraisal and are reviewed in the LIV, Working Paper No. 2. Summary
results for agriculture are presented in Annex 1, Tables 9 and 10. Under the
first scenario, which included further pricing reforms and internal market
liberalization, trade policy reforms, devaluation of the real exchange rate,
and investment policies to stimulate intensified crop and animal production,
growth of agricultural value-added of about 5-1/2% p.a. appears to be
feasible. The projections made under more restrictive assumptions, which
essentially maintain current policies and levels of agricultural investment,
show much lower growth in aggregate supply, demand and exports by 1995, and
also slower growth in agricultural imports. Sectoral value added would
increase by only 3-3.5% p.a. They also show a less diverse commodity
composition of output and consumption, only marginal improvement in per capita
energy consumption (to 2,750 kcal/day by 1995 compared with 2,842 kcal/day
under more liberalized policies), and more adverse consumer price movements
for agricultural products. Perhaps the most striking result is confirmation
that Government's target of 500 million tons of grain production by the year
2000 appears to be feasible with or without these reforms. However, further
liberalization and productivity increases cause a marked change in the output
mix, with production of feedgrains rising considerably in importance compared
to grains produced for direct consumption. This factor, in combination with
pricing reforms, could also be expected to stimulate production and
consumption of animal products which is another Government food policy
objective. The real opportunity costs of not deepening the Phase Ilreforms
for agriculture are thus slower growth in sectoral GDP, exports andtincomes,
the denial of specialization in production, and a food consumption bundle that
is both less diverse and has lower nutritional value than could be obtained
through further reform.
32.       It is particularly difficult to forecast rural industrial
development. Several potential impediments to continued rapid growth of the
TVEs can be identified, including inappropriate product/industry structures at
the lecal level, difficulties of access to technology and particularly to
trained managers and technical personnel, dispersed and costly locational
patterns, and underdeveloped financial and support services, but it seems
likely that the subsector will continue to grow at a rate that is considerably



- 11 -
faster than the State sector (LIV, Working Paper No. 5). Nonetheless, TVE
growth must slow down compared to its past performance as market penetration
by relatively small scale industries becomes more difficult with increasing
market share. A growth rate to 1995 of 10-15% p.a. is a possibility.
33.       The rate of increase in the rural labor force (3% p.a. during 1980-
86) is likely to slow in the medium-term as entrants are drawn increasingly
from the ranks of post birth-control years and possibilities for greater
rural-urban migration materialize. Rural sector income growth will
increasingly depend on TVE performance and other commercial activities with
60-70% of gross rural output being derived from the non-agricultural sectors
by the mid-1990s. The marginal employment-output elasticity of the TVE
subsector is high (about 0.5 - cf. LIV, Working Paper No. 2) and likely to
increase as small-scale privately-owned enterprises expand. This, in
combination with the expected expansion of marketing, transportation and rural
commercial enterprises, suggests that Government's rural employment target of
providing an additional 100 million off-farm jobs by the year 2000 may not be
overly ambitious.
34.       Requisites of Reform.  To achieve these performance prospects,
however, a number of policy and institutional constraints will have to be
addressed. Perhaps the single most important one is food pricing policy,
where it will be necessary to further increase urban sales prices, especially
for grains, and reduce administrative controls. This would facilitate
comparable increases in producer prices and thus engender a supply response.
It would also mitigate and ultimately provide scope for reducing the large
budgetary outlays for urban food subsidies (amounting to about 11% of State
revenues in 1987). Because institutional development for the marketing of
various commodities (and provision of technical and financial support) has not
proceeded evenly since 1979, the organizational needs for linking farmers with
urban and export marketing channels show great regional differences. Outside
of the coastal provinces and major cities, farm households by and large face
only one channel--either state-owned, or through the network of supply and
marketing organizations set up by local governments. The need to broaden
China's rural marketing infrastructure, including the organizing of private
sector and cooperatively run marketing enterprises will be addressed under the
proposed loan (paras. 44-45).
35.       External sector and agricultural inputs pricing policies are also
rigid and tend to be largely administered. The rationalization of export and
import pricing is inhibited by the continued management of the largest share
of China s external trade by a few state-owned trading houses, which operate
mainly to fulfill export-import and foreign exchange earnings targets. Work
has begun to implement partial reform of the export marketing and foreign
exchange allocation system (para. 44), though nationwide implementation will
necessarily be a long-term effort. The rationalization of inputs prices,
particularly for fertilizers, will also require (i) a restructuring of the
input distribution system, and (ii) the injection of some competition for
state- and provincially-owned distributors, who dominate distribution, tend to
be unresponsive to farmers' requirements, and still have little incentive to
reduce costs. However, major initiatives to rationalize fertilizer pricing
and distribution are being held in abeyance until current shortages are



- 12 -
overcome. This will be achieved in part through the implementation of
nitrogen and phosphate industries projects assisted by the Bank which focus on
the state-owned sector and aim principally to reduce manufacturing costs.
Meanwhile, a regional reform is being introduced in Henan Province to phase
out distribution subsidies (para. 47).
36.       An untoward consequence of the shift to the PRS was a dramatic
reduction in public investment for agriculture. Consequent to the dismantling
of collectively managed infrastructure development, agriculture's share of the
total capital construction budget fell from 10.5Z in 1976-80 to 3.3% in
1986. This has resulted in a slow but steady deterioration of rural infra-
structure, e.g., the effectively irrigated area in 1986 was about 2% lower
than in 1978. Because China's irrigation infrastructure is extraordinarily
large (covering 47% of the cropped area), further reductions in irrigated
areas may not pose great consequence. However, the lack of systems repair
work--even in the better endowed areas--is posing problems, and recent
programs to reintroduce rural public works (para. 28) probably should be
expanded.
37.       Private on-farm investment has been inhibited and possibly diverted
into unproductive uses such as housing by unclear tenure and lack of
flexibility in the transfer of land use rights. The full capitalization of
TVEs and other commercial enterprises have been hindered by lack of a
companies law, laws of contract and liquidation regulations. Investment in
both subsectors has been hindered by rigidities in the formal banking sector,
and for the smaller, privately-owned TVEs, by administrative controls and lack
of technical and managerial support. Nationwide policy changes will need to
be introduced to improve the on-farm investment climate and rural business
environment. A broadening of rural financial markets and a general reform of
their operations and procedures will be needed to facilitate the term
transformation of deposits into medium and long-term loans. At the regional
level, some reforms are already under way (paras. 57-62).
38.       The expansion of rural savings, both through increased agricultural
taxation and financial sector reforms to increase rural deposit mobilization,
could ease the budgetary and credit constraints facing the rural sector.
Direct taxation of agriculture presently yields only 2-3% of the gross value
of agricultural output, while the remaining quota requirements-a source of
indirect agricultural taxation of roughly equivalent value--discriminate
against grain farmers. There is a need to improve the buoyancy and equity of
agricultural taxation, firstly by revising the basis for assessment (last
revised in 1958), and second by phasing out grain contract procurements under
the food pricing reforms. It is estimated that the current effective yield
could be more than doubled were the present mixed system of direct and
indirect taxation replaced with an agricultural tax yielding 12-15% of gross
output value. This tax, as a share of total government revenues, could be
increased from 2-3Z to 9-10% over the medium-term. The Government plans to
introduce agricultural tax reform on a trial basis in 1988 (para. 47).



- 13 -
PART III - DEEPENING THE RURAL REFORMS: PHASE II
A. Rationale and Thrust of the New Program
39.       The success of the initial phase of rural reforms resulted in
second-generation problems, which the authorities moved to address in 1987.
The Politburo recorded strategic guidelines for its new program of rural
reform in its document, "Deepening the Rural Reforms," of January 1987, which
set forth a medium term agenda to strengthen at the sectoral and subsectoral
level the policy and institutional underpinnings needed for stability and the
continued rapid expansion of product, factor, assets and rural financial
markets. Specific policy initiatives to implement the new program were
spelled out in Secretary General Zhao Ziyang's address to the 13th Party
Congress in October 1987. A policy reform matrix is attached (Annex 5). This
program consists of (i) a package of reforms to deepen ongoing initiatives,
which can be implemented without further refinement; and (ii) an approach--
through the mechanism of pretesting at the regional level--for formulating new
sets of policies and establishing.new institutions to provide continued but
more stable growth in the 1990s.-/
40.       Behind the new program resides a conceptual sea change in the
management of China's rural economy. First, the reforms entail a fundamental
shift in economic decision-making away from governmental and Party officials
and towards individual farmers, artisans, entrepreneurs, savers, investors and
merchants, or voluntary combinations of same, whose economic decisions will be
coordinated primarily by market forces. Much more than a policy change is
involved: the economic institutions and factor markets that would carry out
this policy change must be created, refined and strengthened in a political-
bureaucratic environment hitherto somewhat hostile to them.
41.       Second, the rural reform process in China was initiated and
continues in an atmosphere of pragmatism. When promulgating these guidelines,
the Politburo recognized that the first phase reforms succeeded largely
because free rein was given to local initiative. The limits of unbridled
innovation are recognized, particularly since the agenda for reform requires
State-level sanction and the promulgation of legislation and other enabling
regulations, all having nationwide or at least regional application. On the
other hand, the need to enlist the support and cooperation of the rural
population in the design and implementation of future reforms is seen as being
paramount, in view of this megastate's huge numbers and regional variations.
2/   The detailed agenda (para. 43) aims to bring land transfers, factors of
production, and a higher proportion of products into the expanding market
system. Price- and market-related reforms to foster further development
of autonomous rural production units (commercial farming, private firms
and cooperative institutions) would be complemented by refining the
regulatory and contractual infrastructure required for the market system
in which they operate, and reforming the rural financial system to make
it more responsive to emerging opportunities and needs.



- 14 -
Therefore, the agenda called for the implementation of a program of regional
reforms (RRPs) at the county or prefecture level, involving a population
totalling 30 million, to determine the effectiveness of particular measures
and to develop necessary regulations for possible promulgation on a wider
scale.
B. Medium-Term Framework
42.       Armed with this agenda, the government moved quickly to place its
second phase program in motion. Constitutional amendments were ratified
(paras. 49 and 55), laws enacted, enabling regulations were issued, and the
detailed Program for medium-term reform (Annex 4) was approved by the State
Council. Meanwhile, the State Council's rural policy arm (known as the
Research Center for Rural Development (RCRD)) was vested with responsibility
for organizing regional programs, to test designs and mechanisms for
implementing the key reforms underscored in the Politburo document, and
provide technical, organizational and financial support. After vetting some
112 rural reform proposals from provincial and local authorities in 1987, the
RCRD submitted 12 for endorsement by the State Council (cf. Annex 6 and
map). Implementation of most of the RRPs had begun by end-1987. The areas
chosen for testing are representative, and local governments have been given
expanded authority to design and implement the RRPs under the general guidance
of the central and provincial governments.
43.       There are six main features in the new program.
(a) Markets and Marketing - to promote the development of well function-
ing internal and export markets for agricultural commodities;
develop and encourage appropriate marketing chains, including
vertically integrated systems for specialized items; reduce or
remove barriers to interprovincial trade; improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of marketing systems; and liberalize marketing
channels for the commercial distribution of inputs.
(b) Pricing/Subsidies and Taxation - to reduce further reliance on
administered pricing and thus permit a rural pricing system to
evolve that can better reflect local scarcities and international
trade opportunities; progressively reduce generalized urban consump-
tion subsidies with improved targetting on the poorest groups in
both urban and rural areas; and improve tax buoyancy and equity by
removing input subsidies and replacing the output tax implicit in
below-market price quota obligations by a transparent tax based on
the value of agricultural land.
(c) Land Management System - to improve the security of land use rights
by formalizing relationships which govern land use under the PRS;
provide incentives through agricultural land taxation for more
efficient land use; and create agricultural leasehold markets with
land as collateral for financial and other transactions, secure from
local government interference, to foster land use specialization
and--where conditions warrant--to reduce land fragmentation.



- 15 -
(d) Rural Industry - to provide equal treatment for all industrial
enterprises regardless of type of ownership; extend the reform of
public enterprises to SOEs operating in the rural sector; support
and reinforce the development of TVEs; provide internal management
and institutional support, in terms of useful organization models
and management systems, and a more secure and less arbitrary
external commercial environment; clarify regulations governing their
operations and transactions; and strengthen institutional support
(industrial extension, financial policies, etc.).
(e) Rural Investment - to improve the organization and management of
public investment programs and maintenance of rural infrastructure;
delimit policy frameworks to encourage private investment; and
reduce the risks attendant with investment which must be faced in
China's present rural business environment.
(f) Credit and Finance - to promote development of a rural financial
system which will efficiently mobilize rural households' savings and
intermediate funds for private agricultural and rural nonagricul-
tural investments.
C. Program Implementation
44.       The main features are being implemented in the following way:  in
the area of markets and marketing, the new program will promote national
integration of the rural economy by implementing policies to reduce local
government fees, simplify their administration, and eliminate licensing and
other "nontariff" barriers to internal trade. Regulations that were tested in
the 8 counties of Fuyang Prefecture in 1987 will be extended to the whole of
Anhui province in 1988. After 1988, in conjunction with a review of the
ongoing reform to remove interprovincial barriers to agricultural trade
between Jiangxi, Fujian and Guangdong Provinces, the Government intends to
issue national regulations and conduct enforcement campaigns to insure comp-
liance by local officials. The Government is developing RRPs at the regional
level in Shangzhi County of Heilongjiang Province, Fuyang Prefecture of Anhui
Province, and Shunyi County in the environs of Beijing to establish general
purpose agricultural marketing channels and integrated chains for specialized
lines. Support is being provided by (locally financed) price equalization
funds and member-owned financial service companies, while various organiza-
tional forms are being permitted. In parallel, "industrial" associations are
being developed within these RRPs, while steps are being taken to improve
marketing facilities and market access in the main urban areas for perishables
and other high-valued commodities being distributed outside of official
channels. To facilitate exporting, authority has recently been given to 8
provinces to directly manage export marketing, and to establish more flexible
trade regimes, foreign exchange allocation systems, and export/import market-
ing organizations. Regional programs will implement trial regulations and
enactments to define business personality for TVEs, commercial farmers and
marketing/service cooperatives, define and delimit asset ownership, transfer
and disposal, and regularize contractual rights and obligations (Fuyang,
Anhui; Meitan, Guizhou; Shunyi, Beijing; Nanhai, Guangdong; Wenzhou City,
Zhejiang; Southern Jiangsu and Shangzhi, Heilongjiang). The Government



- 16 -
intends to evaluate and refine these reforms between 1988-90. Thereafter, it
is expected that the RRPs also will become national policy. The RCRD will
monitor implementation.
45.       In circumstances where there is a lack of marketing intermediaries,
or where the ubiquitous "commercial organizations" exist mainly on paper, the
Government intends to encourage farmers to organize cooperatives which would
engage in purchasing and marketing, and obtain production services otherwise
unavailable (detailed in LIV, Working Paper No. 6). To establish insti-
tutional guidelines, RRPs for farmers' cooperatives are being implemented in
Yutian County, Hebei Province and Shangzhi County of Heilongjiang. These
include the formation of multipurpose and community-owned cooperatives at
village and township levels, and specialized coops and associated companies
which integrate the production, processing and marketing of high valued
commodities. Government intends in 1988 to review progress under these RRPs,
then (i) promulgate model organizational codes for "arious cooperative
organizational forms, (ii) stipulate standard membership agreements, and (iii)
promulgate a cooperatives law which will delineate the internal organization
and the contractual rights and obligations of voluntary cooperatives, as well
as the duties, responsibilities and rights of their members.
46.       The intended pricing reforms are being designed to complement
(i) the very large producer price increases for grains and other primary
agricultural products that were introduced during the early 1980s; (ii) the
markedly restricted scope of administered pricing (from 902 of agricultural
production value in 1979 to 40% in 1985); and (iii) a phase-down of consumer
subsidies on processed grain products. To deepen the rural pricing reforms,
the Government is putting together packages which will simultaneously reduce
producer and retail subsidies and improve agricultural taxation.
Specifically, between 1988-1990 the Government intends to:
(a) reduce procurement at fixed prices, increase those producer prices
which remain subject to administrative controls and increase the
proportion of sale through the market so as gradually to transform
"two-tier pricing" into a system of market pricing, and raise farm
inputs prices for fertilizers, diesel, electricity, etc. in order to
reduce producer subsidies; and
(b) reduce government subsidies for food sales. Reductions in the value
of food subsidies would be facilitated by moderation of market
prices due to increased production and compensated by a one-time
income supplement for urban consumers. Thereafter, Government
subsidies for food sales will only be granted to civil servants,
teachers, retired cadres, urban workers on fixed incomes, and to low
income earners.
These reforms were initiated by an announcement in February 1988 that urban
pork rationing would be eliminated by end-1988.
47.       The most pressing area is reform of the grain pricing system (LIV,
Working Paper No. 3). After some hesitation in late 1987, the Government has
decided to accelerate grain pricing reforms. These will be introduced in the



- 17 -
context of a general reform of the grain production, marketing and financing
system, including a complete phase-out of contract procurement, the
elimination of related inpMst subsidies, a phase-down of urban sales subsidies
and more transparent agricultural taxation. This intention was communicated
to lower level cadres in the Politburo's Document No. 1 of 1988, and reflects
the desire of China's political leadership to accelerate grain market
liberalization. Implementation will begin in Xinxiang, Henan (grain surplus
area).  A similar  WP has been designed for implementation in Yulin, Guangxi
(a grain deficit area) beginning May 1988. Implementation of these programs
will be monitored, and general programs to phase out urban grain subsidies,
eliminate retail inputs subsidies, and improve land taxation policies will be
designed for subsequent implementation nationwide. After this stage has been
reached (in about two years from now), a phasing in of the subsidy reduction
program for urban grain sales will begin, starting with smaller and medium-
sized cities, then moving to large cities. The phasing in of generalized
agricultural land taxation policies would likely begin in the more developed
zones.
48.       The transfer of land use rights to farm households under the PRS has
resulted in very small holdings (average farm size - 0.61 ha) and extreme
fragmentation (average of 9.2 plots/farms). Rigidities in the present land
system are inhibiting the realignment of farms to facilitate investment and
crop diversification. To facilitate security of tenure, the Government in
1984 permitted the use of term leases (15-30 years) on lands growing annual
and tree crops.
49.       Land system reforms (LIV, Working Paper No. 4) aim to convert the
contractual relationship between the land-owning village and the farmer into a
long-term leasehold relationship in which use rights are inheritable,
transferable, and mortgageable. In 1987, China's policymakers experimented on
a limited scale with various procedures for auction and sale of use rights. A
system of cadastre and land certificates is also being planned at the national
level. The Constitution was amended in April 1988 to authorize and legalize
the transfer of land use rights. These amendments will enable the Government,
by the end of 1988, to formulate the implementing policies and regulations
required for establishing markets in land rights, mortgageability and to guide
the resolution of various claims.
50.       In parallel, the Government is implementing trial reforms at the
regional level. In 1987, an RRP was designed to create agricultural leasehold
markets in Meitan, Guizhou (a poor, labor surplus agricultural area). Under
central supervision, the Meitan authorities have promulgated local land use
laws which define land ownership and farmers' rights to use and transfer
land. As a result, sale or transfer of land use rights in Meitan is becoming
an open and legal undertaking. To support the reform, new land contracts and
comprehensive land management regulations have been implemented on a county-
wide basis. In 1988-89, the program will emphasize development of more
precise land assessment procedures and a system of land use certificates, key
measures to facilitate use rights transactions, and creation of a land bank to
loan against security in use rights. By the end of 1989, 10-20Z of all
townships province-wide in Guizhou are expected to have adopted the Meitan
model. RCRD is now strengthening its monitoring of the Meitan RRP, which is



- 18 -
expected to serve as a model for the eventual formation of agricultural
leasehold markets nationwide.
51.       Regional programs are also underway in labor-deficit zones to reduce
land fragmentation, convert micro-farming units to mini-sized farms (2-3 ha),
and facilitate limited small-scale mechanization (sites: Southern Jiangsu;
Nanhai, Guangdong; and Shunyi County, .Beijing). Focussed on areas of major
rural industrialization, these RRPs are consolidating holdings and concentrat-
ing in the hands of specialized producers lands which have become available as
a result of migration out of agriculture. Supported by a program of public
investment in agricultural infrastructure, the aim is to provide income
opportunities in agriculture comparable to those in rural industries. In
Southern Jiangsu, holdings have been consolidated in six out of a total of 30
demonstration villages with work in another ten to be completed by the end of
1988. By 1992, it is expected that consolidation of holdings will be under
way in one-third of the 2,100 villages in the area. Investments in
irrigation, roads and machinery form an integral part of the consolidation
program. RRPs are at an earlier stage of planning and implementation in
Beijing and Nanhai, Guangdong, the latter to foster export-oriented cropping
patterns.
52.       Implementation of these RRPs is being facilitated by the land
administration law, with effect from January 1, 1987 which is designed to
rationalize rural and urban land use, mandate land recording systems and
clarify the allocation of land rental and tax collection responsibilities
among local levels of government. A State Land Administration (SLA) was
established to administer the law, whose key premises are that the use of land
should involve costs to the user; that use rights to a particular entity
should be limited to a specified, but generally renewable, period; and that
transfers of land from agriculture to non-agricultural use should be
controlled and subject to payment of a land conversion tax. Tax proceeds have
been earmarked for agricultural purposes and will be shared between central
and local governments. In 1988, the Government intends to strengthen the land
registry system, and clarify recent policies governing the conversion of
farmland to non-agricultural use. After refining the successful components of
these reforms, the Government, about two years from now, intends to introduce
national policies to facilitate sale/transfer of agricultural leaseholds.
53.       The Government is targetting 100 million more non-agricultural jobs
to be created by the year 2000 to absorb the growing rural workforce and
reduce redundancy in farming activities. Under the new program, the
Government will emphasize rural industrialization, principally the TVEs (but
also SOEs) for which broad-based reforms are being implemented (See LIV,
Working Paper No. 5). To these ends, the Politburo in 1987 clarified national
policies governing privately-owned TVEs by:  ti) removing limits on enterprise
capitalization; (ii) expanding the sectors in which private enterprises can
operate to include all but the most "strategic" ones (which will remain under
State control), and (iii) abolishing limits on numbers of employees,
previously set at seven full-time employees. Parallel enabling policies were
announced for the financial sector. Banking regulations were revised in 1987
to extend a broader range of credit and financial services to collectively-
owned and private sector TVEs. More than 1,000 branches of the specialized



- 19 -
banks (ABC, etc.) were converted into investment and trust corporations to
facilitate conversion of household and government deposits into credit lines
for rural enterprises. Meanwhile, the numerous informal financial service
organizations (that have evolved to facilitate TVE financing) have been given
sanction, subject to their registering with the People's Bank of China (PBC),
and their conformance to regulations which Government intenda to devise by end
1989 (para. 62). Recent steps include the granting of permission to rural
localities to rapidly develop nonagricultural activities under all forms of
ownership; sharp increases in the provision of credit and other resources to
TVEs; the enunciation of policies which can stimulate contracting, leasing and
sale of numerous community-owned TVEs to private individuals and groups; a
gradual removal of previous tax exemptions for many TVEs; and the removal of
limits on size of private firms. The major obstacles to the development of
TVEs are lack of clarity in their property rights, scattered investment, low
levels of technology, weak internal management systems, poor economic
efficiency and the family and community oriented characteristics of these
enterprises. These factors also have hindered integration as well as
reinvestment for expanded production.
54.       To facilitate an orderly expansion of TVEs, the Government by end
1989, intends to implement the following:
(a) a law for TVEs will be formulated to clarify property relationships,
improve the present contractual system for TVEs, and encourage joint
stock organizations at the township and village levels;
(b) TVEs in China's coastal regions will be encouraged to support the
country's export drive by producing export commodities. For this
purpose, policies will be enacted in 1988 to promote coastal
development, facilitated by policies announced in late 1987 to
expand the "open" areas along the Eastern Seaboard beyond the 144
counties (90 million people) that have already been opened. Details
of the strategy, encompassing both direct trading rights and more
flexible foreign exchange allocation and retention rights, were
spelled-out in February 1988 and favor export-oriented development
which builds on local advantages of comparatively inexpensive labor;
new export and import financing facilities; selective though broad
relaxation of export quotas and import permissions; a simplified
structure of tariffs and trade administration; reasonably well-
developed infrastructure; access to foreign markets; and agrocli-
matic conditions which permit production of a wide range of crop,
livestock and aquacultural products. Regulations are presently
being formulated for issue in 1988 to encourage foreign
participations, upgrade technology and management, provide freer
access tc raw materials and set in place financing facilities and
financial services for foreign trade which thus far have been
availed only to SOEs.
(c)  accelerate the implementation of the "Spark" Ptogram to transfer
modern technologies to TVEs through small and medium-scale
industrial development programs, staff training, industrial
extension services and tailored financing facilities; and



- 20 -
(d) reform the existing financial system and expand financial services
for TVEs, introduce bankruptcy regulations to increase the mobility
of fixed assets, encourage inter-enterprise and trivate investment
and other ownership forms.
55.       To permit the promulgation of necessary laws and regulations,
China's Constitution was amended iu 1988 to facilitate the expansion of
privately-owned enterprises. On the basis of the amendment, the Government
intends by end 1989 to introduce a private enterprise law to encourage and
guide the development of private enterprises and ensure their equal status and
treatment vis-a-vis tax obligations, credit and other operational activities
so as to facilitate increased investment, expanded employment and fair
competition amongst different types of enterprises.
56.       To support the preparation of these national programs, RRPs were
designed in 1987 for Fuyang, Anhui and Wenzhou City, Zhejiang. The Fuyang
program includes measures to introduce a companies' law and bankruptcy
regulations for TVEs and improve support services; partly by redefining
government agencies' role from supervision to that of providing needed
services and training, and partly by encouraging TVEs to relocate closer to
supplies or markets. In the Wenzhou RRP, nine local enterprise laws have been
formulated, of which the most important is a private enterprise law. Over the
next two years, the Government intends to monitor the Fuyang and Wenzhou
programs, refine the rules and procedures, and extend these initiatives
throughout China. After 1989, the concurrent existence of a TVE law and a
private enterprise law could result in some confusion for private-sector
TVEs. Government will need to minimise contradictory provisions while
drafting these laws.
57.       Policy initiatives were announced in 1987 which could favorably
influence the effectiveness and financing of rural investment. Policy
guidelines to resuscitate rural works on the basis of off-season labor were
approved by the State Council in October 1987. These require all able-
bodied beneficiaries to contribute 10-20 days (or equivalents in cash) each
year to the maintenance or rehabilitation of water conservancy works managed
at the county level or below. As of March 1988 fourteen provincial
governments had issued implementing regulations for their respective
provinces. The October guideline formalizes a system which had been operating
on a limited basis since 1986 and which in 1987 mobilized about two billion
worker days. A water resource law was enacted by the Seventh National
People's Congress (NPC) in March 1988, to provide an overall management
framework for China's water resources and set forth rules to govern competing
useP for water, problems of water quality and soil erosion, cost recovery from
users, and the financing of water resource development projects. Having
effect from July 1, 1988, this law clarifies responsibilities for capital
construction of irrigation and drainage infrastructure, major repairs and
routine maintenance, and delineates responsibilities for assessing water user
charges. At the enterprise level, SOE managements were made personally
accountable (through signed contracts) for enterprise investment decisions and
financial performance, while the previously informal policy of "encouraging"
rural private investment was made into official state policy.



- 21 -
58.       Most of the rural financial market reforms have centered on the
formal system, though recent initiatives also deal with China's burgeoning
informal financial markets (see LIV, Working Paper No. 7). Recent reforms
include: increases in interest rates and somewhat more flexible rate-setting
for local bank branches, and partial institutional separation of the RCCs from
the Agricultural Bank of China. In addition, incipient competition among
banks has been permitted in certain localities, while Jhe legalization and
encouragement of informal credit markets has been authorized in a few areas.
59.       Potentially far reaching RRPs were set-up in late 1987 to test
methods for deepening these reforms. The Guanghan program in Sichuan consists
of fundamental reforms to the way the banking sector does business in rural
areas, aiming to improve deposit mobilization, introduce more flexibility,
improve Gperating efficiency and broaden the variety of financial services
available to farmers and rural entrepreneurs. In 1987, Guanghan's specialized
banks and the RCCs (including local branches of the ABC and the Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China (ICBC)) were permitted to diversify their branch net-
works to urban and rural areas and operate as enterprises autonomous in
management and accounting with considerable flexibility in lending opera-
tions. They are being allowed to establish investment corporations to faci-
litate the provision of longer-term financing. Current banking regulations
have been modified to permit interbank borrowing. To facilitate interbank
transactions, a clearing hoase also was set up in Guanghan in 1987, while
formal links betweeen the local network of RCCs and the ABC were completely
severed, to permit the RCCs to reestablish as independent service entities.
Good results are being achieved in terms of expansion of the formal sector's
financial services in Guanghan, including the use of variable interest rates
to induce more efficient resource allocation. The Government also has relaxed
its financial system regulations to permit the organization of nongovernmental
financial service companies in Fuyang Prefecture, Anhui Province. Three such
entities have been formed thus far, and four more are being organized. Their
objectives are similar to those of Guanghan's formal sector: (i) to mobilize
rural savings; (ii) provide flexible and more reliable financial services; and
(iii) facilitate a term transformation of deposits, borrowings and other
resources into longer-term investments--primarily for rural non-farm economic
activities.
60.       At the central level, the China Agribusiness Trust and Investment
Corporation (CATIC) has been formally established by the State Council in the
form of a joint stock company, to function as an independent business
entity. Its initial capitalization will be subscribed by Government and the
State-owned banks. It is intended that CATIC will mobilize cash held by
farmers and reserve funds previously held by people's communes through
issuance of stocks and bonds to support the growth and development of local
financial institutions through participations, joint ventures and loans,
including (i) the numerous rural trust and investment corporations that have
been set up by specialized banks, local government and private initiative,
(ii) local financial syndicates, and (iii) non-government financial service
organizations. CATIC's senior staff have been appointed, drawing from the
RCRD, the Bank of China, the China International Trust and Investment
Corporation (CITIC) and other mainstream financial service institutions. A
business plan and internal regulations are now being finalized with some



- 22 -
assistance from Bank staff. Start-up participations have been identified and
it is expected that CATIC will formally open for business during the second
half of 1988.
61.       During the remainder of 1988 and 1989, the Government intends to
(i) make CATIC operational and begin the financing of reform-oriented invest-
ment projects, mainly in the coastal export oriented regions; (ii) introduce
reform of the specialized banks and RCCs in several other regions based upon
the monitoring of performance under the Guanghan RRP; and (iii) establish and
revise as necessary trial regulations to facilitate an orderly expansion of
nongovernmental financial service companies, including rules and procedures to
regulate accounting and accountability and define their relationship to formal
financial institutions.
62.       Policies for the longer term are less well defined, though the
Government intends in 1988 to initiate a general review of rural financial
market policies and prepare guidelines for a general reform. The results of
this review, expected by end 1989, will facilitate the formulation of nation-
wide policies.
63.       The RCRD.  An important role has been assigned to the State
Council's Research Center for Rural Development. RCRD has for several years
been charged with advising the Politburo and the State Council on the
effectiveness of rural reforms and proposing modifications where needed. In
1987, it was also given specific responsibility for finalizing the RRPs in
collaboration with core agencies and national and provincial technical
agencies, for vetting these on behalf of the State Council, and for
supervising implementation. With a staff of 200 persons, and supported by
policy-research institutes and a network of equivalent agencies at the
provincial and prefectural levels, the RCRD has proved itself to be both
capable and suitably positioned to carry out its responsibilities. The RCRD
would serve as a principal Bank counterpart under the proposed loan.
D. Social Impact
64.       China's longer-term development objective is to quadruple the 1980
economic level of output by the Year 2000. Within that framework, the rural
sector will be expected to play a major role in creating employment, providing
food and raw materials for domestic use and generating a much larger volume of
foreign exchange earnings. Grain production will have to increase by at least
25Z from a production base which in terms of arable land and irrigated area is
likely to continue to decline. To meet employment and income targets, the
rural sector must provide more than 100 million new jobs by the year 2000, to
employ the 60 million redundant workers now in agriculture and additional new
entrants. Investment requirements will be large and available resources-both
financial and natural (land and water)--will have to be used efficiently.
65.       The next phase of the rural reforms will help point the way in this
regard. The major source of future output gains in agriculture will come from
more efficient use of productive inputs, of which land is among the scarcest
and most important. Regional reforms to facilitate the transfer of land use
rights will encourage the flow of land and labor to highest economic use.



- 23 -
Reforms of the grain marketing system will send more rational price signals to
both producers and consumers, thereby stimulating more appropriate cropping
systems and grain consumption patterns. Steps to phase out consumer and
producer subsidies hold the potential to free financial resources which are
several times tha current level of the capital construction budget for agri-
culture. Reforms of rural investment mechanisms and financial markets are
expected to mobilize additional rural savings and ensure more effective
investment of available public fund . Improving the operating environment for
rural nonfarm enterprises will be esiential for continued growth and employ-
ment creation in this key subsector. Dismantling of the communes, with their
well-developed system of organization and control, produced an institutional
vacuum in rural areas which has not yet been ef ectively filled. RRPs to
develop rural support systems for production inputs, improved rural techno-
logy, processing and marketing services are expected to provide new models of
effective rural organization which can be extended geographically.
66.       The Government intends to increase budgetary support for agriculture
and rural development. This will be essential. But the challenges to China's
rural economy relating to production, structural change, employment and income
can be met only if greater budgetary support is complemented by an appropriate
economic environment which encourages initiativre and investment by the rural
residents themselves. A major objective of the second phase reforms is to
help provide such an environment.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Bank's Role and Rationale
67.       The rationale for this loan is threefold.  First, it enables the
Bank-at the request of the Chinese government-to assist in the design and
evaluation of reforms in a rapidly evolving and markedly more complex policy
environment. Second, it provides a reassuring margin of support in countering
the balance of payments strains which, based on past experience, are likely to
emerge as reforms accelerate. Third, it will help relieve budgetary pressures
which will increase in the near term as reforms are generalized.
68.       The Bank has assisted reform efforts in China by undertaking
analytical work that ranges from the 1985 study of the economy (World Bank;
China: Long-Term Development Issues and Options, Johns Hopkins University
Press, Baltimore (1985)) to indepth study of sectoral and subsectoral
issues. These studies have had a significant impact on the scope and pace of
the Chinese reform effort and were carried out at the invitation of the senior
leaders of the country and often in collaboration with institutions in
China. The senior leaders of government have come to view the Bank as ast
important window on international experience and have now invited the World
Bank to assist them in the design and implementation of the RRPs as well as in
the development of the national policy reforms that are expected to result
from the regional efforts.
69.       Staff are contributing to both aspects of the new program, but
especially to design of the RRPs. Past experience suggests that many of the



- 24 -
regional reforms, if well conceived, will be emulated by other areas and may
be generalized quickly. Continuous dialogue through mechanisms such as the
proposed R5AL will provide a venue for sustained interaction as policymakers
confront a series of decisions while deepening the reforms.
70.       China does not face an immediate balance of payments problem because
imports have been temporarily compressed through administrative measures.
However, this is inconsistent with progress on reform and the backlog of
import demands that have accumulated during the past two years. To satisfy
more appropriately the repressed demand for consumer as well as capital goods
and bring some relief to inflation, the Government has announced relaxation of
administrative restrictions on imports that are likely to result in a larger
balance of payments gap. The availability of quick-disbursing foreign
exchange funds provides a measure of reassurance to policymakers who are
troubled by the past association of reform episodes with greater macroeconomic
instability. Foreign exchange financing is thus needed to help China meet its
import bill while the new program is being implemented and refined. The
proposed RSAL would finance a portion of the rural import bill (estimated $5
billion p.a.). Due to the expected increase in China's foreign borrowing
requirements over the coming years (Annex 1), repeater RSALs will likely be
justified both for these purposes and to maintain an intensive technical
involvement.
71.       The rationale for this loan also is linked to incremental budgetary
needs. Although resource balance has been attained, at least temporarily,
through administrative control and robust rural savings performance, the
second phase of the reforms will entail increased rural consumption to bolster
incentives as well as increased budgetary outlay to finance rural
infrastructure. In the near term, the main pressures will be budgetary, but
as the changes being introduced during the second phase are dispersed through-
out the economy, a resource gap may ippear as it has done in earlier reform
episodes. The budget is under strain because of revenue losses arising out of
enterprise profit retention and the difficulty in finding alternative revenue
sources at short notice, as well as from increased public demand. As a
result, the public sector deficit widened to 2.31 of CDP in 1987, thereby
adding also to inflationary pressures.
72.       To make a success of the reform program, policy and institutional
change must be backed by infrastructure building, direct investment in
agriculture and continued spending on rural industry that will generate
employment for surplus rural labor. Total budgetary expenditure on the rural
sector, therefore, is likely to be rising sharply in support of the second
phase. The proposed loan and credit of $300 million is, of course, very small
in relation to the total budgetary spending in support of agriculture (about
$4 billion) and to the current or projected budget deficits. But as a
proportion of incremental budgetary expenditure for the rural sector
(estimated at $750 million over the next two years), it will be quite
significant and it would facilitate the financing of priority initiatives
supporting the policy reforms.



- 25 -
B. Loan Format and Administration
73.       Borrower and Release of Funds.  The State will act as Borrower and
Will assume the repayment and foreign exchange risk obligation. In view of
the scope of the reform effort that has already been launched, the proposed
loan would not be tranched. Rather, progress monitoring would be effected
through:
(a) routine supervisions;
(b) formal progress reviews, to be held in the first instance not later
than June 1989;
(c)  semiannual progress reports, to commence in January 1989 and
continue until the loan is closed;
(d) continued collaboration with the Chinese authorities in the develop-
ment of national programs for policy reform based on the results of
regional efforts; and
(e)  the process of preparing possible repeaters.
74.       Procurement.  The proposed loan and credit of US$300.0 million
equivalent would finance the foreign exchange cost of priority imports as
follows:
Indicative Amount
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Commodities and raw materials for the
rural sector                                               75.0
2.  Agricultural inputs                                       200.0
3. Machinery, equipment and spare parts for
the rural sector                                           25.0
Total                                                300.0
Imports under the proposed loan and credit would be procured by three major
import/export agencies:  the China National Chemicals Import and Export
Corporation (SIN3CHEN), China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
(MACHIMPEX) and the China National Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and
Export Corporation (CEROILS). The following procedures would apply:
(i) procurement would be made against a list of eligible items; (ii) ICB would
govern all contracts in excess of $5 million, while some contracts for goods
estimated to cost less than $5 million may be awarded on the basis of the
normal procedures of the three agencies noted above (which have been reviewed
and are acceptable to the Bank). It is expected that procurement under ICB
tendering procedures will amount to $125-$150 million; and (iii) subject to
the prior approval of the Bank, procurement of commonly traded commodities may
be undertaken through organized international commodity markets or other



- 26 -
channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank. The normal
procedures of SINOCHEM, MACHIMPEX and CEROILS are based on a form of limited
international competitive bidding, generally are economic and efficient, and
are acceptable. Procedures for procurement of commodities which ensure wide
international competition have been agreed.
75.       Disbursements.  The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would have primary
resporsibility for the financial administration of the proposed loan and
credit. Disbursements would be made against 100% of the foreign exchange
costs (CIF) of eligible imports. Disbursements for contracts in excess of
US$5 million would be made against fully documented withdrawal applications
following standard procedures used in adjustment lending. Disbursements for
other contracts would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure from
the MOF and other authorized signatories. Withdrawals under statements of
expenditure would be consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1
million equivalent. The loan and credit are expected to disburse fully within
18 months of effectiveness. This being the first adjustment loan to China,
profiles for sector lending operations to that country are not available,
however, project lending experience suggests that disbursement will be easily
achieved within the time indicated. The closing date would be July 31,
1990. It was agreed that a special account with an authorized allocation of
US$50 million would be established by MOF within the Bank of China's New York
Office, if needed, to ensure smooth disbursement of the proposed loan and
credit.
76.       Accounts and Audit.  The MOF would maintain records of all transac-
tions under the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. Not later
than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year, all accounts
would be audited by State Audit Administration. Certified copies would be
submitted to the Bank. Audit reports would include a separate opinion with
regard to claims submitted to the Bank on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
C. Coordination and Monitoring
77.       Coordination.  Arrangements to coordinate the implementation and
financing of China's second-phase program have been established at the highest
levels of Party and Government. A national-level Leading Group for Rural
Reform (LGRR) was created within the State Council on February 2, 1988 to
provide central level coordination. The director of this group is the
General-Secretary of the State Council, with the Minister of Agriculture and
the Deputy Chairman of the State Planning Commission as deputy directors. The
Director of the RCRD will act as lead advisor to the LGRR. Other members
include the Vice Minister of Finance, the Minister of Water Resources, the
Minister of Forestry, a member of the General-Secretariat of the State
Council, the Director of the State Land Administration, the President of the
Agricultural Bank of China, and one member each from the Chinese Academies of
Social and Agricultural Sciences. The Development Institute of the RCRD will
serve as secretariat.
78.      Leading groups have also been set up at the provincial level
(usually chaired by a deputy governor, though regional variations exist),



- 27 -
while Experimental Program Offices operate within the immediate jurisdiction
of each regional program to provide on-site coordination. RCRD staff are
seconded to these entities.
79.       The State Council in December 1987 established an umbrella Trust
Fund for Land Development and (Rural) Construction, through which proceeds of
the recently imposed land conversion tax will be channelled for rural
development. The Government has advised that these resources may be
supplemented by a portion of the RSAL's counterpart proceeds. A part of the
Fund's capitalization will be used to supplement the RRPs' budgetary needs.
80.       Tracking and Monitoring.  The importance of having well-designed
arrangements in place during this next-and inevitably more complex--phase of
rural reform is recognized by Government, of a sort that would enable it to
(i) track the spread and diffusion of related policies, regulations, laws and
official declarations through its implementing agencies and local
jurisdiction, while (ii)--over the longer term--of a sort which will enable
the central level authorities to assess the impact of the reforms.
81.       Two kinds of diffusion indicators are being set up.  The first:  to
track the uptake of designs being implemented in the RRPs when these spread to
other administrative units in China, both within each province where the RRPs
are located, as well as beyond provincial boundaries. The second: to track
the diffusion of reforms that have been mandated as a matter of national
policy, including those being generalized from local experience, as well as
those which merit direct intervention by the State. Tracking will be handled
through Government's routine reporting and internal communications systems,
backstopped by special reviews and tailored investigations when needed.
82.       Both for technical and practical reasons, detailed impact monitoring
will be confined to the RRPs. Criteria, indicators and implementation details
for impact monitoring have been agreed for the priority regional reforms in
the Government's 1988-89 program. It would be agreed during negotiations that
the Government's report to be submitted for the June 1989 Progress Review
(para. 73(b)) would detail the extent and kinds of diffusion occurring between
negotiations and preparation of the report, and summarize progress made to
establish impact monitoring systems for regional reforms under central super-
vision. The monitoring indicators and supporting data collection systems are
being tailored to meet the quite varied requirements of individual RRPs.
Diffusion and monitoring indicators are described in the LIV, Working Paper
No. 8.
D. Program Benefits and Risks
83.       The reforms in rural China under the first phase program both
supported the macropolicy adjustments and provided an important cushion during
years of imbalanced macroeconomic performance. These fundamentally changed
the direction of agricultural performance towards greater diversification and
specialization. Regional self-sufficiency at low levels of output was swept
aside--a consequence of decollectivization-while price and food policies
stimulated production, improved the quality of urban diets, and enhanced
exports. Meanwhile, the potential of rural industrial and commercial



- 28 -
activities was given free rein. The result was explosive expansion of the
TVEs and the energetic development of new markets, both internal and
overseas. This led to a remarkable absorption of underemployed farm labor,
first by the collectively-owned enterprises and later by privately-owned
firms, a massive growth in output value, and needed competition for the SOE's
which previously dominated rural manufacturing and commerce.
84.       Ambiguities developed during the first phase, however, which both
provide the rationale and have determined the direction China now is taking to
deepen the rural reforms. The expected benefits from the new program are
substantial though difficult to quantify. The second phase reforms are
I..pected to create a more favorable environment for overall economic and
sectoral development in a time of increasingly severe resource constraints.
In particular, liberalization of agricultural and food pricing, marketing and
land transfers, the establishment of a more supportive business environment
and more efficient financial intermediation are expected to (i) make the rural
economy a more efficient producer of agricultural and industrial products and
exports; (ii) reduce budgetary subsidies in the food chain and the transac-
tions costs associated with non-food and non-agricultural marketing;
(iii) stimulate private enterprise, investment and the mobilization of rural
savings in rural financial markets; (iv) improve rural incomes, while
adequately protecting low income urban residents by targeting the remaining
food subsidies, and (v) introduce more buoyant and equitable agricultural
taxation. The risks of the program relate to the length and difficulty of the
process, possible social and political pressures-particularly an over-reaction
by consumers and producers alike to unaccustomed price swings and commodity
gluts (which might persuade Government to reimpose controls), unpredictable
developments in the non-rural sectors and the risk of premature, spontaneous
replication of the reforms by other local jurisdictions before these have been
adequately tested and refined under central supervision. These risks are
limited by the Government's strong commitment and pragmatism, demonstrated
during the first phase of the rural reform program (1979-1986), steps already
announced to place the second phase in motion, and the inherent flexibility of
the regional testing approach. Further, if the temptation to reimpose
controls can be avoided, the likely ouccome will be a continuation of the
strong upward trend in rural output and income of recent years.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
85.       The primary objective of Bank assistance to China is to support
economic reforms, especially those aimed at strengthening the financial
sector, developing export orientation, increasing reliance on markets, and
furthering national economic integration. Specifically, the Bank's program
seeks to assist in reinforcing the foundation for modernization by helping to
improve capacities for planning, research and analytical work, and management
and adaptation of new technologies. Another priority is to help China insti-
tutionalize national systems of social services, so as to ensure their
delivery to the Chinese people in cost-effective ways as economic reforms
proceed.



- 29 -
86.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank in May 1980, 57
projects involving lending of $6,060.17 million to China have been approved.
Over 40% of Bank lending to date has been in the transport and energy sectors,
in an effort to alleviate the serious lack of physical infrastructure in
China. China's programs to increase and rationalize agricultural productbgn
from a small base of arable land have been supported by 17 Bank projects,_
accounting for about 202 of total lending to China. In industry, Bank Croup
lending has focused on DFC-type operations while building the capabilities of
financial intermediaries which provide credit to SOEs and collective enter-
prises, and on direct lending to important subsectors such as fertilizer and
machine tools. Operations in the industrial sector have absorbed about 16% of
total lending. The shortage of skilled manpower has been addressed through
investments in education, mainly higher level learning institutions. In
health, the Bank has supported government programs to improve the quality of
care and efficiency of service delivery, particularly in rural areas, through
technical assistance and modern technology. The Bank has also financed
projects in both rural and urban areas to improve water supply and sanita-
tion. In total, the social sectors have accounted for about 18% of lending to
China. IFC has made three investments in China, in automobile and bicycle
manufacturing, for a total of US$25.0 million. Annex 2 provides a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of end-March 1988.
87.       A b-oad program of economic and sector work helps to further the
Bank's dialogue with China on macroeconomic and reform issues and underpins
development of the lending program. Economic analyses are aimed at expanding
understanding of the structure and direction of an economy undergoing rapid
systemic changes as a result of the reform initiatives launched in the late
1970s. A two-year program of thirteen studies has just been completed. In
December 1987, the Government and Bank agreed on a three-year rolling plan
which includes studies of the long-term structural changes likely to take
place in the economy to the year 2000, options for urgently needed tax reform,
and alternatives for relieving enterprises of responsibility for providing
social security while safeguarding the remarkable achievements China has made
in recent decades. A country economic memorandum is scheduled for FY89.
Sector analyses on key areas of reform such as agricultural marketing and
pricing, agricultural land issues, rural poverty and employment, the Yellow
River development program, rural industrialization, export marketing and
housing reform are being undertaken to improve sector planning and investment
decision making.
PART VI - RELATIONS WITH IMF
88.       The Fund has been active in China in recent years, both in terms of
its economic consultations as well as its programs. China was an original
member of the Fund, and the People's Republic became the representative on
April 17, 1980. Following China's change of representation, China borrowed
3/   Including the Daxing An Ling Forest Fire Rehabilitation Project, to be
considered by the Board on June 16, 1988.



- 30 -
through o Standby and an Extended Arrangement in March 1981 (SDR 4TO million -
25% of quota), repurchasing the full amount by end-August 1983. More
recently, China borrowed again for a Standby, a one-year first credit tranche
arrangement signed in November 1986 (SDR 597.7 million - 251 of quota). Since
its change of representation, China has had an annual Article IV
Consultation. The most recent Article IV Consultation took place in November
1987. In the Fund's consultations and drawings, there has been ample
coordination with the Bank and involvement of Bank staff.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Loan and Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
June 3, 1988
Washington, DC



- 31-                        ANNEX 1
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Country and Sector Tables
1.  China - Economic Indicators
2.  Key Macroeconomic Indicators
3.   Balance of Payments
4.   Growth and Structure of the Rural Sector
5.   Sown Area, Yields and Production of Major Crops
6.  Use of Major Agricultural Inputs
7.   Rural Incomes, Savings, Prices and Consumption
8.   Consumer and Producer Subsidies
9.  Projections:  Grain Production
10.  Projections: Agricultural Sector Performance Indicators



32  -                             ~~~~~~ANNEX 1
CHMA                                 ~~~~~~~~Table  I.
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMnT LOAN                                     Page 1 of 3
I"  ws"cwtoam .                                                                            ha   1 .    06110J
A. *MM darn 1W OUSP* lS . anw  htos  (Iw VW                                   )
(fin   -    ea 41)ca                                               dn   aa
i.e  10,    irn     no      is    IMiP            IN*-"  ion-0  io-es   lim          imp~
-    -      .-*;, s;.       ;;     I. -                    --31      Ws      7*-.
Owes ~s1. Pw~  .p.  100.0   106.    1660   10:.   106.0   50.010                        .     10.5    s1.       7.1
z~~ta,               51.5~~M  43.4    40.    45.5      4.2                    12.1     0.0    12*5    U.4       0.0
Cdi %*m Nmob*tw&v)          20.0    55.5    51.     55.      32.       .1.0                   0.4    12.4     0.4
25.     =4.    56.0    25.4    25.1                    U1.?      5.4      o.4     3.* 4
homes UsIom             6~~~.5  6.5   41.5    -4.4    -2.0      6.6               .       .
~~ of   S     ~~~~4.5         4.7     7.1    $9.    10.0    UA                 2.1     5.4    15.     10.4    l0.5
7se'   tinWS                 5.1     4.2     0.4    14.      15.1    11.4             1.0    11.5   1V.    -15.2   -10.0
Tota uppa.mos                  66.5    66.5   101.5   104.4   101.    189.6              1.0     5.0    10.0     5.2      5.1
Total hamour                7409    0.*    115s   60.7    "**                         :.      3.      6.        .        .
Psiw. om impu             5M.      4.5   35.6    51.0   10.4                        .        .       .       .       0.
e~~~  o~~~~        15.4    15.2   &Ls    15.0    15.6        ..               .6     4.0     5.5     5.4      7.2
0we haat14 flvsinll         2.4.    29.7    20.6   23.0   23.0                       12.9     0.1    19.       1.0      9.6
l1.A imaom                  ..      .       .      0.4    52.2      .                .       .
a.wena SIahs                ..      .               .1     6.0      .                .       .
Oe.s hasse  "M1                25.1    20.2   38.7    34.5    30'         U.1.&                  7.5    10.2    12.5    14.0
Sot Iwoes, horn              6.6       . 0.0      0. 2 C     4.1    40.1                .       .
of se  O hastellohess.                 . .    0.2     0.1     6.1     6.1,.                     .
Givna" mtum& swiu                .             20.0    34.0    360.      ....                      .    1.5    11.0      1.4.
ha .A      5 a LW'.            105      5      i66    1no      i.e    iUip
(at OWAS i. pew"s)              -   -   -   -   -   -
own" DOMt1a lw*mt           249.0   260.6   4566 0.0        1226   30.61.0                    5. M.4           1.9      7.1
c4gassity to am"ue          14.6   140.    51.0    10.0    180.    0360               2.0     0.0    I2.1   -0.1    13.1
Tomat .5 2tda djuswm        -4.6    -4.0      6.6   -1.6    -1.6   -1.6                 .      .
"Dus hmatssl Tem            104.0   289.6   456.6  0MA.   745.0  1M3.                         S:05.   10.4     1.0      1.2
oine Uosgmi l.**Mt          149.0   36.    420.6   m.@   M3.0   30.0                  7.0     S.4    IO.$      7.0      1.1
aowe NUotInA Tee            104.    100.0   439.    466.   744.6   766.               1.0     5.7    10.4    4.1       7.1
*12    i   g     . -             -y        aistm  got".  vi.&.).        -
C.Ple  dou4                ie      INO    ams    iwo    it"         im6p         1905-75 105-30  1206-00    io    Iwo
hawms lobes (ME               IWO16.    100.5   109.5  129.0   131.1     ..                .       0i    5.0     0.1
iqMOLS UP klIne.,             006.0   104.2   100.5   110.1   124.    15.               -.       15      5.       .      10.6
?LUglI inprmuss" Deass        1M06.    105.6    WI.  im.    120.0   130.4              -11       11      4.6     5.4      9.0
9. Oshot ToOlnatws.                 1"9-73           1M0150          196-46
GOWA hAOr cm P.&.) I
lP,lstlm                             2.1              13              1.2        VA"a en the 1ambm hoisomta,sm"
Labn or P                              .....                                     ahmdd fallo  de 44112itm mA
ows em  ilm 1hmomn V.o.              5.1             4.1              0.1        aoruos .8 lbo 8tdsi e0 Tae mA
luoom  @onmpt1  P.*.                 5.5             3.6              5.5        ktwA.0 *Attda. so idmmto
awns Marntels"                                                                      moainl aowoad oslsw vow(o
low" t0own I UP (v)                  0.2             2.1              1.0        fInal. vwI%be ii.  s  QC oal. poo
41wel"e). Sunf sesInme" NW be matd
3on*mi hauge hman                                                                   L feLft  ot psealisdMa aaemla swe
Gm"aum ~* s  w                       1.53.                           40.2          o pswloempsues. 2m U   ad  afLlegeda
lblo of Tot"                   1005    iois    Ina6   i.e6                                  p   mlialsomy dats
Lobes lto usels-                            
AdstioaUme,                   O&    11.3      12    01.1
?dbup                          8    ii.2    14.3    51.0
Ssotime                       U1    ii.      11.7     v1
TO"a&                        106   16.        160     106



- 33 -
33                             ~~~~~~ANNEX 1
CHINA                                           Table 1
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMINT LOAN                                   Page 2 of 3
- -c um_i
vaIm  &WM (1SW0  100)s                       9.1w as Owwwo Vtmin  CetiiJ   06) I
te H..,Ue hie91uOISW                       lOW 1      06      1 09     103      1067w   low       son       iu4      low      too    1
          ~        ~       ~        ~
M. - ends a   5 ..                   ..                ..       ..       ..              4.       4an        4       am       s091      su
wood                                                             nu    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2602    2247  4017  412  1nu
s           4"1 7 2
0tb   _i"                                                                                2oo   2s          2 " e amo  am                a
sl I .L.o a..  ..                    ..       ..                ..                      18406   20        2300     25106    W36        3010
P. vAomo
wood                                              ..            ..       *.              20    3061        21n       142        W       17#2
___                                   -        .       ..       ..            ..          24t       10    - 130       157      419       2n
Odbet   -                                                                                1601    154    2642    2664         328       307
Ods   Cosg 94.4                                                                        24        S        71      3a?7   13190      11409
0z    b        lto Goo"                                                               1105     10659    124      1740       9n       S9
Cpit  =006                                 ..       . ; ..            ..       ..    706        43n      750    13        12e69    u11m
l 1bc        A.   .us. M                      ..       ..       ..                ..    209    317    2281             1    346
0. Twu   6 TRW  (l0o0 - no)  10   1io    no   10   1to"   lSoop
M0101  Iqo.t P.1G 2.A6w             320      6.      U',s     86.      86.
!!_. kW" 9w1w ZIA"                  1       UO .9      a1    8.6    94.                        Em. ex dw 64mb  _46ietw    bla.UU
_ode  I           4d                3o 0    99,7   100.$       10      91.9                    Ab-4l 1.11w dos daftim  ad
go 90Lllm  (at        mpx1mw)a                        Stad s6 Attlnsa. U-  s4Amags
-'1 illa dma ta shte dok suma
B. 34M    1f %1                             10n      1064     106      19   IO" S?p           ie.m1       q e  d t946aL     a w (eM
-  -  -     --         -        -          ~~~~~fLmai  pow in doe Gmo. .1 SIsal p
sa at              - Gos          106MI    232      261    2610    29          342               AMCUa ). S2_  MUm..    b wed
n L e  (X)                     3l4w    20707    22I5   210         25734    30W             it SInai M. p.abmwp saami am  Mt
Em-Vms.   uW1220    2726    2 1                            205      297      42            pet illabl.. In we ad mesimm ad
-9Lidsw   a_  1b"  be_due
Zqut    o G OmA M23435    03                        26859    407       7?2    34200
ldnes (1M)                       4      16717    2- -      321    249    s0m
Emmst 3.av1.in         1ISO      1996     n   2372 64       2276     326
_m pgai1u m
bau         asum                  -342      2722      447  -15        -79         -4
Emt foame tom                       321     1254     342       528     -36      -22
Eat    DRSwe (PuiOwS)               44       43       205      111      as       247
(1m  umitt)                           0   4"   -171 in   2M    1
ammu m            _     e1.       -30u      4          72  -18        -752         4
(Cow. am0  1 la   P) )
lam-Tm bpA*ai zn                    21      18       174      4511     ?        10
01ime Iuue.Am                     57      54      i        1021     14       140
NM *11l T1.1  ESe                -70      I5       127      7l       1        35
Em Li taxn (NS de")             197       a0      32       407      41        317
IS  um  (at)                  -164      -421     -24      -59      10      -19
Tam1  00r  1Am  (Mt   )            s2      -11n    -337       2       -1854    -57
an Emat-twon colia1             1M      -I4    -244        27      -SO0    -253
C05anlow S._.It.                   0        0        0        0        0        0
xcm  mA a31.alm                  47      -354     -9        420      In         0
am        ai E mft _N~             -24     -4324    -780       874     20        on
Net CusiehmI                      ..    -40         ..       ..      721        0
-    ei g   imme")            -24    -23         -70      "74      131       S
Ssm Same                        -1.3      1.0      0.2    -4.4    -2.6        0.0
iwtem    1o                      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.3
Qazms Ammmm Sale                -1.1      1.5      0.8    -4.2    -2.6        0.0
_swem  di. G414 (si1. VS8)    24               7 W  1721 4     12325   11453    16305
ome"" Al.  C1  (a.   )    10091    102    2120              16661    18417    2243
0111L. X4Ata (UV's10)            1.20     1.0      24.2     2."      S.4      3.70
Indax NMl sn. XS- S      le 100   100.00   a3."1    74.24    0.U      45.94    39.61
o   xl=oel             $ 6)   20734   2U46     2942    20328    274       2



29303 a+m +t £   ^  9amr
$9',c    K  Y   t  b POOXNR  I V
w- ff- t~~~~~~~3=W89t- W-"    "Mtz;*
a,*  U000    00-0    solo    00-0    CO1 Omalo  M  It11~*
191     01t   lot  f f-6                 IC%dt""  f-m tz -* n  9  
b-X  b-@  alltg 911- 1   019T   cola        vammbC6a 4     & -      .
oS      1 a -o   W'09 00-0   CO-O  0060                 1-A390 1t2 *a t
W-9S    00'.     5S     S'   t9-t    SO'           X-t 9SUS-t3 OS* 't
aswzpnlUS             IS'S   ,11       9919    1       16'9 ST      1¶ P.wzUo9 fmaWI 't
'Msc    g       gg*3AM           59r    5g0               wtq.o *
so) au  soppe 0 ,t116- &Puw    "IC        Ct.  W-0    otil:      ol     CloW &-  I- Iola It
W MP$Mws     'St    u's  -OD-    00- 0  00-0    00-0 I5m,vio am  It
_2=Ma                1. -01I                                 °-%'stO-l; mn amW Zt' nu   2Z OM"
v- *"Ws I                     IS9       9      I'S     P         6?      66£UsoR                   1- a
9119    VS.$    all3   W'.E    to's1   oSo'S         fl      3      M  an I
_z    -       W's it  ;s    m'         ss              n-gut          aa V g
am  V=  39                  gm P "t         an- ;  6  o      16-9        -                      as0* - 0 0-  IA   sa X 'Tt 
-9          a    a-a0  -                              CUO Ut                     - 1-0                       tO-- m D
$  ~  011    eng  Ct-tn " m  an- tO-O 1 u    e               to"     $t    go         at                          9  a
* l  "It  un    an  -Gm         A-                       Va-Mt6    '     LS   -t              1tO-  P 1*
-  _ G           $t                                                        to      C UPT n-'  3    U  '  *O  II0 P 3 " *Z
"3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~5 33¶q  99-1  0t-t Po                                  oo                    t      *
WI    U'a £a'9    St    LO'S    OSSSM10tn99t "3                             'l "
13   up                  U      t        99    on-   1M6          M3       9-   3           C              am  t tt51391 1
?S      469      09      m C 96    .0    O          P    63-   0COO6Z9-   91-   16?1211 t -2     ffSt
099   t6   O             0        O   O           to      OK      S       o        169     0 5                    311"     a6
1        S       S        M      5099      4      5t      0t    5NT    OK                  5t                          I   t
6339  ZtUL  *93          19n     196      6001   ZtO      310   Ct1         -      991-  CCt                2   l I
tUtL    CU"       =1    t"    gm         UOt    AM        U"      &M      ffW      Z   Us   aB IlgnmeAMr    
17    9961    33?         W,    Wt W    t    t     n £01Ct W1-    U    U 96?-      161     I                     31I   'V
tSt 0U 1619    469       969       5      109    196      @55     P         P        9   065                    1"3  P223
t061     9U      11        t  O9          5W   96           S     31       9°      59 
O"t 90tCt  tVmm tttt   OIO lltm- aS fft t0umkmw
Stt      tm        "t-            VW-           t         SIC     clo-  .o   t1   - t               Z     S_too!Z  W"  el*
0663 161    t,"?    51       19      5        0      3        61       106    405      0                  W8IN$      M. a    4
USI  £60    0619     Wig     99      999     16       91C     635     CIO    166       CIO                gms-am 1IU3I
965£?    £119? 5351   9699  K    909     LP       91      £0       11     U        L? 3   S23  £uw903t
-  -                     -                  --V   -
4tm      US?    05       9661    66       066?   46       166?    00?    965       30?    556?                S01~g9   2b"
193in1  lWlD  1me    *t'
('19905) 99q9159 96"32'w'O 3930                     IweIfli'W 1 ) l_U1   333
161t    ?669-  L'99-              VUw-            *-0     S'S     1'S-    '0       S'S     6'393?                    5   1
9095n    **S-      6                                                                                       o*S  -0 Z - O S'S  Z -O  0U-0   z
0'50?    S'SUC   9t-t              I-             0 O-t           0'S   0-0        $l      ts'       C     -      OW) t-Sl
.99   .'.6    ..?9       . . S              *       -    6'-  *'-  *'-  *'-    9*-                              21313 t1
CIL0'S    V1'P               19s             0'        '       'S     IS      *s        '9,'s"91
S'S  S'      9'1             L'                '      SW      6LI     14       I'       0
-'99  -9tC  O-t9-                6*&-            &-Z-  -S-  X-o-    -t- "St-   *-s- C  "
*631    6351    Wi?          91- @5- 4535?-  635?    906                           156?    ,0 Ct?~1)3
('30 1)  m19                                     (3) AD 
..  ..  ..      ..               ..      ..      ..00  .-         *-I=*Ze
NY-n-  um             rim - tG        -
r&     z-     eXtt           Z-O' cn                  mqsau X-1o,-tt~       zwirnZ     t-Z
-%   O'      b%                 '*-                     -              taI- 
'r 30    j                                              VMIU XS   )S 
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           '7%'-



CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJU-WI,5NT LOAN
Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Actual                   Prelim.                   ProJected
1982   1983   1984    1985    1986          1987     1988    1989   1990   1991   1992
GDP growth rate                         8.8   10.2   14.5       12.7      7.9       7.1       7.3      7.4    7.4    7.4    7.4
GDY growth rate                          9.8   10.6   14.4      11.1      7.0        7.3      7.2      7.1    7.5    7.4    7.5
GNY/capita growth rate /a               7.3    8.9   13.4       11.6      6.3       6.3       6.3      6.1    6.4    6.3    6.3
Private consumption/cap'T-a
growth rate lb                        8.5    8.7    8.1        2.6      1.9      -1.3       6.3    10.3    8.6    8.6    8.5
Debt service (US$ millions)           2,800  1,500  1,100    2,100   2,400        2,482    2,249   2,248  2,584  3,217  4,661
Debt service/XGS                       11.3    6.1    3.9        7.2      7.8       7.0       5.6      5.0    5.3    6.0    8.0 0
Debt service/GDP                        1.1    0.6    0.4        0.8      0.9       0.9       0.8      0.7    0.9    1.1    1.5
Gross investment/GDY /c                29.1   29.6   32.2       38.8    38.8       39.6      39.8    39.3   38.3   37.3   36.3
Domestic saving/GDY /I-                31.0   30.5   32.3       34.3    36.0       39.6      39.5    37.7   36.8   35.8   34.9
National saving/GNY 7-T                31.3   31.2   33.0       34.6    36.1       39.7      39.7    37.9   36.9   35.9   34.9
Marginal national savTng rate          n.a.   n.a.   n.a.       n.a.    n.a.        0.9       0.4      0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2
Government revenues/GDP                28.0   28.3   27.1       27.5    25.6      1
Government expenditures/GDP            29.4   30.0   28.7       28.0    27.5      }  Not projected
Deficit (-) or surplus (+)/GDP         -1.4   -1.7   -1.6       -0.5    -1.9      }
Export growth rate /d                  -3.8   -1.5   14,0        5.4      5.0       16.6     12.9    11.5    8.8    9.3    9.3
Exports/GDP                             7.4    7.3    7.2        8.5      8.7       11.2     11.3    11.3   11.4   11.4   11.5
Import growth rate /d                 -19.6    9.6   26.8       55.1    -8.8       -7.2      15.0    25.4    7.5`-  8.9    8.9
Imports/GDP                             6.5    7.5    8.1       12.1      9.7      11.4      11.6    12.8   12.9   12.9   12.9
Current account (US$ million)         5,823  4,487  2,509  -11,811  -7,448          225      -133  -5,624 -5,839 -6,541 -7,301
Current account/GDP                     2.2    1.6    0.9       -4.2    -2.7        0.1    -0.04    -1.5   -1.4   -1.5   -1.5
/a  Real GDP/capita growth rate for 1982-86.
b  Real.
t Ratio to GDP for 1982-86.                                     
7   US$ value in current prices.



- 36-                                                   Table 3
RURM  SECTOR AJUSIMET LOM
galiner of Payments
(US9  mllion, at current prtces)
Actual                          Prtlin.                   Prolecte1
1982      I98      198        1983      1986      1987     1988       1989     1990      191        99
A. Exports of goods and RFS          23,786    23,433    26,716    28,163    29,583    34,502    38,937    43.415    47,235    51,631    56,443
1, MIrchandtse (POB)             21.125    20,707    23,905    25,108    25,756    30,105    33,794    37,600   41,092    44,944    49,163
2. Uonfactor servtces             2,661     2,726     2,811     3,055     3,827     4,397     5,143     5,815     6,142     6,687     7,280
8. Imports of goods and NPS          18,900    20,711    26,269    40,755    37,172    34,506    39,685    49,766    53,477    58,235    63,423
1. Nerchandise (FO)             16,876    18,717    23,891    38,231   34,896    30,908    35,541    45,108   48,586   52,941    57,691
2. Nonfactor serviesa             2,024     1,994     2,378     2,524     2,276     3,398     4,144     4,657     4,891     5,294     5,733
C.  escource balance                  4,886     2,722       447   -12,592    -7,589        -4      -748    -6,351    -6,242   -6,604   -6,980
D. Net factor ncome                     451     1,254     1,620       538      -238      -139       247       358        35      -305      -689
1. Factor receipte                1,092     1,549     2.008     1,478       986     1,001    1S251      1,371     1,611     1,712     1,836
2. Factor payments                  641       295       388       940     1,224     1,140     1,004     1,013     1,576     2,017     2,525
S. Net current transfers                486       511       442       243       379       368       368       368       368       360       36P
1. Current receipts                 672       620       596       439       516       505       W5        505 5       5       505       505
a. workers realmtence            541       446       317       180       266       125       129       125       125       125       125
b. other current transfers       131       174       279       259       250       380       380       380       380       380       380
2. Current payment                  186       109       154       196       137       137       137       137       137       137       137
F.  Cirraet account balance           5.823     4,487     2,509  -11,811    -7,448        225      -133   -5.624    -5,839    -6,541    -7,301
0. Long-term capital Inflow            1,559     1,172    1,608     3,371     5,796   -2,366      1,827     8,816    6,999      8,054    8,957
1. Direct investment                474       636     1,258     1,658     1,875     1.401     1,331     1,331     1,131     1,331     1,331
2. Oficial capital grants             -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         ---                 -
3. met LT loans (DRS data)          803       820       734     3,148     4,545   -2,416        496     7,485     5,669     6,723     7,626
a. Disbursements                1,032                                             -875     2,045     9,024     6,981     8,226    10,066
b. Repayments                    229                                             1,541     1,549     1,538     1,312     1,503     2,440
4. Other LT inflows (net)           282      -284      -384   -1,235       -624   -1,351          -         -         -         -         -
H. Total other item  (net)           -1,057      -888   -2.301      4,404      -339     1,301         0         0         0         0         0
1. Net short term capital        -1,052      -522   -1,369      4,021    -1,532     1.301         0         0         0         0         0
2. Capital flows IMZ                  -         -         -       764     1,193         0         0         0         0         0         0
3. Errors and omiasiona              -5      -366      -932   -1.145          0         0         0         0         0         0         0
I. change in nst regarere            -6,325    -4,771   -1.816      4,609     1,991       872   -1,598    -3,198    -1,355   -1,648    -1.805
1. Net credit from the llP          -27      -482         -         -       731         0         0         0         0         0         0
2. other reserve ehanges
(- indicates increase)        -6,325   -4,771    -1,816      4.609     1."1        872   -1,598    -3,198    -1,355    -1,648    -1,805
Shares of GDP (current 118)
. 1Rasource balance                 1.8       1.0       0.2      -4.5      -2.7      -0.0      -0.2      -1.6      -1.5      -1.5      -I.S
2. Current account balance          2.2       1.6       0.9      -4.2      -2.7       0.1      -0.0      -1.5      -1.4      -1.5      -1.5
3. net credit from the IM           0.0      -0.2         -         -       0.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Namorandum Item
GDP (Ns$ millioo)               266,200   284,800   291,400   262,800   271,700   298,308   343,548   386,141   405,496   438,970   475,302
Forelgn Erchenas Reserves
1. International reserves        11,135    14,476    16,705    11,913    10,514    16,000    17,673    19,405    20,494    21,867    23,360
2. Gold a                         5,236     5,887     5,120     4,419     5,123    6,484
3. Gross reserves
inel. gold                  16,371    20,363    21,825    16,332    15,637    22,484
4. Gross reserves in
montha  nports                 10.1      11.6      9.8       4.7        4.9      7.7
Exhmbme Rate
1. Nominal offieial
exchange rate               1.8925    1.9757    2.3200    2.9367    3.4528    3.7221
/a Valued at London price.



ANNEX 1
-37-                           Table 4
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Growth and Structure of the Rural Sector
1978    1980    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Rural Total Gross Social Product /a             203.8   279.2   412.4   506.8   634.0   742.9   904.1
Of which:
Agriculture /b                              139.7   192.3   275.0   321.4   361.9   394.7   447.7
Crop Production                                   137.7   194.2   219.4   228.2   245.9
Livestock, fisheries                               54.4    80.8   101.9   133.8   148.6
and forestry
Rural non-agriculture
Industry                                  39.7    54.4    82.6   116.1   175.0   234.2
Construction                               13.5    18.0    32.1    37.1    51.0    58.8
Transportation                              3.5     4.7      8.3    13.3    19.0    22.8
Commerce and services                      7.5      9.8    14.4    18.9    27.0    32.4
Total, non-agriculture                  64.1    87.0   137.4   185.3   272.1   348.2   459.4
Agriculture /c                                               250.8   281.5   291.2   301.4
Growth Rates (Z p.a.)
Rural total gross product /d                                                              11.6    12.7
Agriculture /e                                                          12.2      3.4      3.5     4.7
Rural non-agriculture                                                                     22.3    21.8
Shares of Rural Total Product (2)
Agriculture                                    68.6    68.9    66.7    63.4    57.1    53.1    49.2
Crop production                                      49.3    47.1    43.3    36.0    33.1
Livestock, fisheries                                 19.5    19.6    20.1    21.1    20.0
and forestry
Non-agriculture                                31.4    31.1    33.3    36.6    42.9    46.9    50.8
/a   In current prices; billion yuan.
7b- Includes crops, animal husbandry, forestry, fisheries and sidelines.
75T In constant prices; billion yuan.
Td   Rural total gross product grew at about 3.2% p.a. from the mid-1950s to the late 1970's and at 13.8% in
1980-85.
/e   Agriculture grew at about 32 p.a. in 1953-80 and 8.2% in 1980-85.
Sources: China Rural Statistical Yearbook, 1986; and Statistical Yearbook of China, 1987.



-38 -Tal5
RDRAL UCTOR AIJUSTNERT LOAN
Sown Area, Yields, and Production of Major Crops
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Rice
Sown area (eil ha)        34.4   33.9   33.9   33.3   33.1   33.1   33.2   32.1   32.3   32.1
Sown area (ail mu)       516.3  508.5  508.2  499.4  496.1  497.1  497.7  481.2  484.2  481.0
Production (paddy) (mil t) 136.9  143.8  139.9  144.0  161.6  168.9  178.3  168.6  171.1  176.0
Yield (t/ha)               4.0    4.2    4.1    4 3    4.9    5.1    5.4    5.3    5.3    5.5
Percent change
Production                     5,0   -2.7    2.9   12.2    4.5    5.5   -5.4    1.5    2.8
Yield                          6.6   -2.6    4.7   13.0    4.3    5.4   -2.2    0.9    3.5
Iheat
Sown area (mil ha)        29.2   29.4   28.3   28.0   29.1   29.6   29.2   29.2   29.7   28.9
Sown area (ail mu)       437.7  441.0  424.6  419.3  435.8  443.7  438.3  438.3  445.5  433.8
Production (cii t)        53.8   62.7   55.2   59.6   68.5   81.4   87.8   85.8   90.3   88.0
Yield (t/ha)                1.8    2.1    2.0    2.1    2.4    2.8    3.0    2.9    3.0    3.0
Percent change
Production                    16.5  -12.0    8.0   14.8   18.9    7.9   -2.3    5.2   -2.5
Yield                         15.6   -8.6    9.4   10.5   16.8    9.2   -2.3    3.5    0.1
Corn
Sown area (ail ha)        20.0   20.1   20.4   19.4   18.5   18.8   18.5   17.7   19.2   20.2
Sown area (ail ou)       299.4  301.5  305.3  291.4  278.2  282.4  278.2  265.4  287.6  303.2
Production (ail t)        55.9   60.0   62.6   59.2   60.6   68.2   73.4   63.8   69.0   76.0
Yield (t/ha)               2.8    3.0    3.1    3.0    3.3    3.6    4.0    3.6    3.6    3.8
Percent change
Production                     7.2    4.3   -5.4    2.3   12.6    7.6  -13.1    8.1   10.1
Yield                          6.5    3.0   -0.9    7.1   10.9    9.3   -8.9   -0.2    4.5
Other Grain/tuber Crops
Sown area (mil ha)        37.0   35.9   34.7   34.3   32.8   32.5   31.9   29.9   29.7   29.7
Sown area (ail ou)       555.3  538.5  520.4  514.2  492.0  487.7  479.2  447.8  445.8  445.8
Production (mil t)        58.0   65.6   62.8   62.2   63.9   68.8   67.8   60.9   60.7   62.4
Yield (i/ha)                1.6    1.8    1.8    1.8    1.9    2.1    2.1    2.0    2.0    2.1
Percent change
Production                    13.0   -4.2   -1.1    2.7    7.7   -1.4  -10.2   -0.4    2.9
Yield                         16.5   -0.9    0.1    7.4    8.6    0.4   -3.9    0.0    2.9
Total Grain Crops
Sown area (=iI he)        120.6  119.3  117.2  115.0  113.5  114.0  112.9  108.8  110.9  110.9
Sown area (ail mu)     1,808.8 1,789.5 1,758.5 1,724.4 1,701.9 1,710.7 1,693.3 1,632.7 1,663.1 1,663.8
Production (all t)       304.8  332.1  320.6  325.0  354.5  387.3  407.3  379.1  391.1  402.4
Yield (t/ba)               2.5    2.8    2.7    2.8    3.1    3.4    3.6    3.5    3.5    3.6
Percent change
Production                     9.0   -3.5    1.4    9.1    9.2    5.2   -6.9    3.2    2.9
Yield                         i0.1   -1.8    3.4   10.5    8.7    6.3   -3.5    1.3    2.8
Cotton
Sown area (oil ha)         4.9    4.5    4.9    5.2    5.8    6.1    6.9    5.1    4.4    n.a.
Sown area (mil mu)        73.0   67.7   73.8   77.8   87.4   91.2  103.9   77.1   65.3    n.a.
Production (mil t)         2.2    2.2    2.7    3.0    3.6    4.6    6.3    4.1    3.5    4.2
Yield (kg/ha)            445.3  488.9  550.2  572.4  617.3  763.0  903.9  806.8  813.1    n.a.
Percent change
Production                     1.5   23.0    9.6   21.2   28.9   35.0  -33.7  -14.6   18.4
Yield                          9.8   12.5    4.0    7.8   23.6   18.5  -10.7    0.8    n.a.
Oilseeds
Sown a .ea (all ha)        6.2    7.1    7.9    9.1    9.3    8.4    8.7   11.8   11.4    u.s
Sown area (all ou)        93.3  106.5  118.9  137.0  140.2  125.9  130.2  177.0  171.2   nua.
Production (cil t)         5.2    6.4    7.7   10.2   11.8   10.6   11.9   15.8   14.7   15.3
Yield (kg/ha)            638.5  901.4  970.0  1117.2  1264.8  1257.4  1372.5  1337.6 1,291.2    na.
Percent change
Production                    22.7   20.2   32.7   15.8  -10.7   12.9   32.5   -6.7    3.5
Yield                          7.5    7.6   15.2   13.2   -0.6    9.2   -2.5   -3.5    n.a.
Average annual growth (1) in
production of:                 Grains   Cotton    Oilseeds
1979-83                         5.0      16.9          9.3
1984-87                         1.1       1.2         14.4
1979-87                         3.3       9.9         11.6
Source:t China Statistical Yearbook, various yours; United States Department of Agriculture; Government
briefings to the RSAL Appraisal Nission.



ANE 1
- 39 -                                       TabIe 6
CHIIU
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Use of Major Agricultural Inputs
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987    X '86/'87
Land (mil ha)
Cultivated                  99.3   99.6   99.3   99.0   98.4   98.4   97.8   97.4   96.9   96.1             -2.4
Cropped                    1S0.1  148.5  146.4  145.2  144.7  144.0  144.2  143.6  144.2  144.7             -3.9
Irrigated                  45.0   45.0   44.9   44.6   44.2   44.6   44.4   44.0   44.2                     -1.8
Chemical Fertilizer
Nutrient weight (nil t)    8.8   10.9   12.7   13.3   15.1   16.6   17.4   17.8   19.5   20.1               120.6
Nutrient/cropped ha (kg)  58.9   73.1   86.7   91.9  104.4  115.3  120.7  124.0  135.2  138.9              129.6
Rural Labor Force (mil)
Total                      313.5          325.1  333.4  345.3  353.6  366.2  370.7  379.9                   21.2
Crop Production         256.8          266.7  276.8  281.6  282.8  255.0  249.4  253.7                    -1.2
Forestry                  3.0             3.2    2.5    2.7    3.2    3.4
Animal husbandry          6.4             7.5    6.5    6.5    7.9   20.7
Fisheries                 0.6             1.6    1.5    1.6    1.6    2.5
Sideline wt/
village indu            8.0             8.8    9.1    8.3    9.5   21.4             51.0
Total agriculture       274.8           287.8  296.4  300.7  305.0  303.0            304.7                10.9
Total non-agriculture   38.7             37.3   37.0   44.6   48.6   63.2             75.2                94.3
Township and village  17.3            19.4   19.8   20.7   20.1   24.2              31.4
enterprises (TVEs)
Other non-agric        21.4           17.9   17.2   23.9   28.5   39.0              43.8                94.3
Employee Shares (Z) of Total
Agriculture                 87.7           88.5   88.9   87.1   86.3   82.7             80.2
Non-agriculture             12.3           11.5   11.1   12.9   13.7   17.3             19.8
TVEs                       5.5            6.0    5.9    6.0    5.7    6.6    7.4    8.3
Machinery Services
Tractor-plowed (nil mu)  610.1  633.3  614.9  546.4  526.7  503.6  523.8  516.3  540.6                     -11.4
Machine-harvested
(nil mu)                46.9           65.4           67.7   68.0   71.6   71.3   82.6                   76.2
Sources: China Rural Statistical Yearbook; various years; Statistical Yearbook of China, 1987.



-I
- 40 -                                     table
MU  SECTOR AAR U   Lem
Rural Inoome. SavioaR. Prices and Coneuaytion
1978  1919  1980  1981   1982   1983   1984   1985  1986   1987
Rural Population (all)  790.1  790.5  795.7  799.0 803.9  783.7  704.7  662.9
Rurl and lurban Incomea
Avg. net rural
itcome/capita:
loinal (yuan)         134   160   191   223   270   310   355   398   424   463
Real (1978 - 100)     134   157   177   202   239   271   302   311   312   318
Avg. urban income/
capita /a             316                  458           526   608   685   828
latto of avg urban
to rural InooMa
(nominal)             2.4                  2.1           1.7   1.7   1.7   2.0
Rural Savinas
Rural savinga
depoalta (adl mIe)   5,570  7,840 11.700 16,960 22,810 31,990 43,810 56,480 76,610
Rural ssavngs dep/
capit (yYun)            7     10    15    21    28    41    62    85
Avg/capita casb saviaga
(yuan)                18            27    36    50              92   113
Avg/capita cash savinga
not depoalted          11            12    IS    22              30    28
Total casb saving not
deposited (all MIS) 8,653         9,783 11,804 17,384        21,021 18,425
Rural avg/living
apaces a sq/cap        8.1           9.4  10.2  10.7  11.6  13.6  14.7  15.3
Farm Prices Usei"vad and Paid
Prtiee reetved index lb
General Index
(1978-100)         100.0  122.1  130.8  138.5  141.5  147.7  153.6  166.8  177.5  198.9
Grain                100.0         140.8  154.5  160.4  176.9  198.1  201.7  221.7
Induatrial crops     100.0         136.9  146.3  148.6  149.0  150.9  153.2  156.7
Poltry * liveatoc*   100.0         127.7  129.7  130.2  130.7  136.1  168.9  174.0
Otber agricultural/
*ideltnas          100.0         115.8  119.6  121.3  127.1  132.7  163.8  176.4
General Index prices
paid /c              100.0  100.1  100.9  101.9  103.6  104.6  107.8  111.3  114.6  120.4
Paersr terms of trade
index (Prtceas
received/paid)       100.0  122.0  129.6  135.9  136.6  141.2  142.5  149.9  154.6  165.2
Retail Prices
General retail price
inudex
1950-100             135.9  138.6  146.9  150.4  153.3  155.6  160.0  174.1
1978-100             100.0  102.0  108.1  110.7  112.0  114.5  117.7  128.1  135.6  145.6
Conation/Canita (ka or Q cloth)
Rural
Grain                  196           214                                254   256
Sdible vegetable oil    1.6          2.3                               5.1   5.2
Pork                   7.7          11.2                               14.0  14.3
Sugar                  3.4           3.8                               5.6   6.1
Cloth                  8.0          10.0                               11.7  11.2
Rural percent change (1986/1978)
Groin                 30,6
Pork                  85,7
urban
Grain                                     145.0         144.0  142.0  135.0  137.0
meat                                       18.6          19.9  19.9  19.3  21.6
Poultry                                     1.9           2.6   2.9   3.2   3.7
Piab                                        7.3           8.1   7.8   7.1   8.2
Liquor                                      4.4           5.3   6.8   7.8   9.4
Urban percent change (1986/1981)
Grain                 -5.5
Neat/Poultry          23.4
Liquor               113.6
/a Urban Income (staff and workers) available to neat daily neds.
/elghted average farm price for agricultural and sideline products, incuding state,
negotiated and free market pricea.
/c  An index of prices paid by farners for production inputs and conmer goods.
Sourcest O,iaa Statistical Yearbook, varioug yeaar; Cdnat A Statistical Survey tn 1987;
briefings by Goverment to the RSAL Appraisal Mission.



CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Consumer and Producer Subsidies
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985   i986
Consumer Subsidies on Commodities /a        5.6    13.6    17.9    21.8    24.0    27.0    32.1    27.5
(bil yuan)
Subsidies,on grain, edible
oil, cotton (bil yuan)                          8.4    13.3       18     19.9    22.7      26     26.2  24.9
Subsidies on grain, edible oils                  61.8    74.3    82.6    82.9    84.1    81.0    95.3
and cotton as Z of subsidies
on commodities
Subsidies on Agricultural Inputs            2.4      2.2     2.0      2.2     2.1      1.3     0.8     0.7   0.2
(bil yuan)
Total subsidies /b                               -10.6    15.3    20.2    22.0    24.0    26.8    26.9  25.1
Total subsidies as % of                            9.6    14.2    18.5    19.6    19.3    17.9    14.5   11
state revenue /c
/a   Excludes all subsidies on urban services and may exclude commodity subsidies financed by local
governments.
/b   Subsidies on grain, edible oil, cotton and agricultural inputs.  These figures exclude very sizeable              X0H
subsidies applied by various municipal governments on selected other products including pork,
vegetables and sugar.
/c   Total subsidies as defined in Footnote b above.
Source: Ministry of Finance; China Statistical Yearbook, various years.



CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Projections: Grain Production
Average         Average 1994-96
1984-86       Run Al         Run B21
(million In tons)
Rice (paddy)                          179.7         203.7          181.9        Run Al:  "Less favorable" conditions:  slower total consumption
Wheat                                  87.9         108.9          121.7                  growth, slower growth of crop yields, agriculture less
Other grains                           94.7         120.2          136.3                  responsive to price, foreign trade under administrative
Soybean                                10.5          12.7           16.0                  control, no exchange rate adjustment.
Tubers /a                              26.6          30.9           33.0
Total Grain                         399.4         476.4          488.9        Run B21: "More favorable" conditions:  faster total consumption
of which: foodgrain              (82.4)         (78.2)         (72.6)                 growth, faster growth of crop yields, agriculture more          a
feedgrain /b           (17.6)        (21.8)         (27.4)                 responsive to price, foreign trade 'liberalized, exchange        .
rate devaluation.
Total available animal feed
from domestic sources /d            95.1 /c       135.4          162.7
*   Several runs of the model were made.  The two selected for these tables are Intended to Illustrate the variety of possible outcomes,
depending on future policy developments and other conditions.
/a  At one-fifth net weight.
Tb  Whole grain only, including tubers.  Excludes wheat, rice and other cereal processing by-products and soybean cake.
7F  Mission estimate; no official figures are avallable.
7-3 Includes whole grain fed to animals (including fish), grain and oilseed processing by-products.
1El



CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSITENT LOAN
Projections: Agricultural Sector Performance Indicators
Price-      Price           Price
Demand   Supply   Import   Export       change       change          change            Grain            Meat            Cropping
growth   growth   growth   growth   (all item.)   (crops)   (animal products)   production           production          index
(index of values: average 1984-86-100)                           nillior tons   millions tons   ratio x 1001
Nodel Run Al/a
(less favorable       126.4    125.3    226.8    158.4        103.2        102.3           112.6             476.4           24.3 /c           152.4
conditions)          (2.4)    (2.3)    (8.5)    (4.7)        (0.3)        (0.2)           (1.2)           (104.0) /b      (37.4) 7d
Model Run B21 /a
(more favorabie       139.3    139.1    251.2    221.5         97.3         95.3           125.3             488.8           28.5 /c            154.7
conditions)          (3.4)    (3.4)    (9.6)    (8.3)       (-0.3)       (-0.5)           (2.3)           (133.9) /b      (44.8) f
/a  See Anne: 1, Table 9 for the assumptions about future policies and conditions for different model runs.
#b leedgrain production.
7c  Red meat:  pork, beef and mutton.
/d Red meat plus- poultry and fish.
1I!



ANNEX 2
- 44-
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1988)
Loan/                                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Credit      Fiscal                                                         (less cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower           Purpose                    Bank      IDA    Undisbursed La
One loan and one credit have been fully disbursed
2021/1167    81        PRC    University Development             100.00    100.00        0.00
1261       82       PRC    North China Plain Agriculture         -        60.00        4.79
2207       83        PRC    Three Ports                         67.9J       -          1.56
1297       83       PRC    Agric. Education & Research           -        75.40        8.55
2226/1313    83        PRC    Industrial Credit I (CIB I)         40.60      30.00       5.36
2231       83       PRC    Petroleum I (Daqing)                162.40      -          25.73
2252       83       PRC    Petroleum II (Zhongyuan-Wenliu)  100.80          -         39.84
226111347    83        PRC    State Farms I (Heilongjiang)        25.30      45.00       1.98
1411       84       PRC    Polytechnic/TV University             -        85.00       33.83
1412       84       PRC    Technical Cooperation                 -        10.00        1.37
1417       84       PRC    Rubber Development                    -       100.00       32.60
2382       84       PRC    Lubuge Hydroelectric                145.40      -          53.11
2394       84       PRC    Railway                             220.00       -         42.97
1462       84        PRC    Rural Credit I                       -        50.00       10.34
1472       84       PRC    Rural Health & Medical Educ.          -        85.00       30.46
2426       84       PRC    Petroleum III (Karamay)              99.50       -         41.57
243411491    84        PRC    Industrial Credit 1I (CIB II)    105.00       70.00       35.24
2444/1500    84        PRC    Agricultural Education II           45.30     23.50       19.47
1516       85       PRC    Agricultural Research II              -        25.00       13.01
1551       85       PRC    University Development II             -       145.00       82.58
2493       85        PRC    Power II                           117.00       -         49.20
2501       85        PRC    Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining        120.50       -        108.11
1577       8S       PRC    Seeds                                 -        40.00       21.03
1578       85       PRC    Rural Water Supply                    -        80.00       82.16
253911594    85        PRC    Highway I                           42.60     30.00       41.38
2540       85        PRC    Railway II                         235.00      -         209.71
2541       85        PRC    Fertilizer Rehabilitation &         97.00       -         44.35
Energy Saving
1605       85       PRC    Forestry Development                  -        47.30       42.08
2579/1606    85        PRC    PiShiHang-Chaohu Area Development 17.00       75.00       73.53
2580       85       PRC    Weiyuan Gas Field Technical          25.00      -          16.78
Assistance
1642       86       PRC    Rural Credit II                       -        90.00       45.63
265911663    86        PRC    Industrial Credit III (CID III)   75.00       25.00       32.80
1664       86       PRC    Technical Cooperation Credit II    -           20.00       21.69
1671       86       PRC    Provincial Universities               -       120.00       81.42
2678/1680    86        PRC    Third Railway                      160.00     70.00      245.92
2689       86       PRC    Tianjin Port                        130.00      -         121.17
1689       86        PRC    Freshwater Fisheries                 -        60.00       45.48



ANNEX 2
45 -                                   Page 2 of 3
Loan/                                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Credit      Fiscal                                                        (less cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower           Purpose                    Bank      IDA    Undisbursed la
2706       86        PRC    Beilungang Thermal Power           225.00       -        204.55
2707       86        PRC    Yantan Hydroelectric                52.00       -         35.10
2708       86        PRC    Liaodong Bay Petroleum Appraisal  30.00         -         20.66
2723/1713    86        PRC    Rural Health & Preventive Med.    15.00        65.00      80.93
1733       87        PRC    Red Soils                            -        40.00       30.63
2775       87        PRC    Shuikou Hydroelectric              140.00       -        123.40
27S3/1763    87        PRC    Industrial Credit IV (CIB IV)    250.00        50.00     282.74
2784       87        PRC    Shanghai Machine Tools             100.00       -         99.40
1764       87        PRC    Xinjiang Agricultural Development  -          70.00       73.67
2811/1792    87        PRC    Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway 25.00    125.00        162.20
2812/1793    87        PRC    Gansu Provincial Development        20.00    150.50      174.15
1835       87        PRC    Planning Support & Special Studies -          20.70       20.53
2794/1779    87        PRC    Shanghai Sewerage                   45.00    100.00      144.02
2838       87        PRC    Pertilizer Rationalization          97.40       -         97.40
2852       87        PRC    Wujing Thermal Power               190.00      -         190.00
1871       88       PRC    Rural Credit III                      -       170.00      171.75
Total                             3.320.77  2.352.40        _
of which has been repaid           71.41       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA   3.249.36  2.352.40
Amount sold: Of which repaid         -         -
Total Undisbursed                 2.170.28  1.507.65   3.677.93
la As credits are denominated in SDRs (since IDA Replenishment VI), undisbursed SDR credit
balances are converted to dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the
SDR. In some cases, therefore, the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater
than the original principal credit amount expressed in dollars.
Notes: (1)  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
(2) Subsequent to the above data of Statement A, the following loans and credits have
been approved.
a. Huangpu Port (287711845) - $63.0 M loan and SDR 19.8 M (equivalent $25.0 M)
credit
b. Dalian Port (2907/1875) - $71.0 M loan and SDR 18.2 M (equivalent $25.0 M) credit
c. Northern Irrigation (1885) - SDR 72.7 M (equivalent $103 M) credit
d. Coastal Lands Devt. (2924/1887) - $40.0 M loan and.SDR 40 M (equivalent $60.0 M)
credit



ANNEX 2
-46-                                 Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1988)
Invest-   Fiscal                                 Type of       Loan  Equity  Total
ment no.   year          obligor                  business     -- (US$ million) --
813     1985    Guangzhou and Peugeot          Automobile   L5.00  2.00   17.00
974     1987    China Investment Co.           Investment    3.00  0.04    3.04
1020     1987    Shenzen China                  Bicycle        5.00  -        5.00
Bicycles Co. Ltd.           Manufacture
-              Total Gross Commitments                     23.00  2.04   25.04
Less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales               _                _
Total Commitments now Held by IFC           23.00  2.04   25.04
Total Disbursed                              4.40  0.04    4.44
Total Undisbursed                           18.60  2.00   20.60



-                     ~~~~AM=E  3
- 47                                  -
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTENWT LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of [Me Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the operation:       About 5 months
(b)    Responsibility for preparations           Government/Bank
(c)    Operation first identified by Bank:       September 1987
(d)   Bank appraisal mission:                    February  1988
(e)   Negotiationst                              May       1988
(f)    Board presentation                        June      1988
(g)    Planned date of effectiveness             August    1988
Section Ilt Special Bank Impl  ementation Actions
(a)    Formal program review:                    by June 1989
(see para. 73)
Section III:  Special Conditions
None



ANNEX 4
-48-                             Page 1 of 13
STATEMENT OF RURAL REPORM POLICIES 1/
1.       The basic direction of China's economic restructuring was established
by the Government in December 1978. The principal guideline was subsequently
confirmed by the Fifth and Sixth National People's Congresses and, most
recently, by the Seventh National People's Congress which was convened in
March, 1988. Meanwhile, a series of decisions was approved to deepen the
reform. In line with the decisions on economic restructuring and development
adopted by the National People's Congresses since 1979. the following
statement outlines specific programs for deepening our economic restructuring
in the rural sector.
Part I - DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND OVERALL STRATE4Y
2.       China has put forward three phased objectives in its economic
development plan for the future:
(a) to double the GNP of 1980, and solve the problem of food and clothing
for the Chinese people. This task has been largely fulfilled;
(b) to quadruple the GNP if 1980 by the end of this century. This is the
main task confronting China at the present time; and
(c) to achieve the major features of a modernized economy by the middle
of the next century.
These steps will be achieved through steady economic growth and coordinated
development. In this regard, China plans to shift from the prevailing pattern
of extensive development, which unduly emphasizes a lateral expansion of the
means of production, to intensive development, which emphasizes a ore
efficient use of productive resources.
3.       Such a shift of emphasis requires that priority be given to three
major tasks:
(a) Emphasize Education. Science and Technology: To modernize the
existing enterprises and basic industries, and popularize technology
in rural areas through such means as the 'Spark' and 'Bumper Harvest"
programs, well proven scientific and tecLnological advances which are
highly applicable will be utilized. National research and
development capacity will be enhanced. China will continue to stress
the strategic role of education, including increases in funds
allocated to this sector;
(b) Maintain Macroeconomic Balance: China's strategy is to achieve
steady economic growth, and avoid the twin problems of overheating
and recession. To achieve a rough balance between aggregate supply
and demand, the Government will control the overall scale of
investment and the people's consumption. Increasingly, this balance
will be achieved by the use of indirect economic levers; and
11 This statement of Rural Reform Policies (The "Programs) was approved by
the State Council on May 25, 1988 and conveyed to the Bank by the
Minister of Finance in a letter of even date.



ANNEX 4
- 49 -                             Page 2 of 13
(c)  Open to the Outside Worlds  The policy of opening to the outside
world will continue. The extent to which China can increase economic
relations with the outside world--and in particular to import
technology and equipment--depends on China's ability to earn foreign
exchange. We will therefore continue to emphasize the development cf
export-oriented industries, as well as other sectors that can earn
foreign exchange, such as tourism, shipping, labor services, and
technology transfer. We will continue to stress the efficient
utilization of foreign capital.
4.       A major objective of China's economic restructuring is to establish a
socialist commodity economy combining use of planning and market forces while
maintaining public ownership as the primary form of ownership. Economic
restructuring involves various economic sectors. The Government agencies
responsible for economic management will develop their own specific reform
programs. Based on the reform process and targets to be achieved, the reforms
contain six major features?
(a) Invigorating Public Sector Enterprises. Reforms for this area aim to
(i) separate ownership from managerial authority; (ii) give enter-
prises true autonomy in management; (iii) rationalize relationships
between owners, managers and producers; and (iv) safeguard the
legitimate rights and benefits of enterprises and make them fully
accountable for profits and losses.
(b) Promoting Horizontal Economic and Technical Ties Between Enterprises.
We intend to promote the rational flow and allocation of factors of
production such as trained personnel, funds, technologies and
physical resources through joint investments, mutual purchase of
shares in enterprises, and other means. We will stress the role of
large and medium-sized enterprises and manufacturers of quality
products; and promote ties between scientific research institutions,
production units and enterprise associations so as to meet the
demands of larger scale production and efficient division of labor
based on specialization.
(c) EstablishinQ Market System. A system will be gradually established
in which the State sets prices of only a few vital commodities and
services while leaving the rest to be determined by market forces.
As reform of the price system is deepened, a more comprehensive
market will be gradually built, including that for consumer goods,
means of production, capital, labor, technology, information and real
estate. Transaction rules of the markets will be strengthened and
new systems for income distribution and price subsidy will be
gradually established to ensure that people's living standard
continues to improve as the economy expands.
(d) Imoroving the Macroeconomic Control System. Based on reforms of
monetary, fiscal and income distribution policies, the Government
will reduce its direct administrative interference to economic
activities and establish an indirect macroeconomic control system, by
appropriate economic legislation and adjustment in the functions of
Government agencies responsible for economic management.



ANNEX 4
- 50 -                          Page 3 of 13
(e)  Diversifying OwnershiR Structure.  While public ownership will remain
predominamt, cooperative and private sectors of the economy in both
urban and rural areas are being encouraged. The First Plenary
Session of the Seventh National People's Congress adopted an amend-
ment to the Constitution of the People's Republic of China on
April 12, 1988. The amendment, which supplements Article 11 of the
Constitution, readss
"The State permits privately-owned economic entities to
exist and develop within the framework of law. The private
econmy is supplementary to the socialist economy of public
ownership.  The State protects the legitimate rights and
interests of the private economy while providing the private
sector with guidance, supervision and administrative
regulations."
On the basis of this amendment, we will promulgate laws governing the
private sector of the economy as soon as possible, so as to fur.her
diversify the ownership structure.
(f)  Rationalizing Systems of Income Distribution.  While wages and
salaries will continue to be the main form of income in China, other
forms will be recognized. including interest, dividends and profits
from lawful operations; and additional income received as rewards for
risk-taking by public enterprise managers who are leasing public
enterprises. The taxation system will be used to prevent excessively
high personal incomes or exorbitant profits. This is important not
only for reasons of social equity, but also to avoid excessive
consumption. China will continue to practice thrift, ensuring that
the growth of consumption will not rise faster than national income,
and that wages do not rise faster than productivity.
Part II - GENERAL REVIEW: RURAL REFORM SINCE 1978
5.       China'a overall reform program was initiated in the rural areas and
has achieved its greatest success there. Gross output value from the rural
economy by 1986 had increased by 70Z compared with 1978, for an average annual
growth rate of 13.2Z. The agricultural growth rate has been 6.62 per year,
compared to the 2.6? annual growth achieved over the previous 26 years. By
1987, net income per capita in rural households increased to an average of
Y 463, which is more than three times the figure of 1978. National per capita
grain production increased to 375 kg, an increase of 17.22 over 1978. The
improved rural economy has created conditions for developing the entire
national economy and extending reforms to all aspects of the economy.
6.       The agricultural policies formulated by the Chinese Government in
late 1978 include the following:
(a) to reduce the grain purchase quota and thereby give China's farmers
an opportunity for economic recovery;



ANNEX 4
- 51-                                  Page 4 of 13
(b) to raise the State purchasing prices for agricultural products, and
reduce the prices for agricultural inputs so as to allow farmers tq
gain more benefits from production expansion; and
(c) to grant greater decision-making authority to farm households,
reestablish the linkage between production aud household income, and
reward above-quota output so as to provide effective farmer incent-
ives for production increases.
These policies began to be implemented in 1979.
7.       Subsequent to 1979, the rural reform has advanced along the following
lines:
(a) the Government has continued to increase the purchase prices of
agricultural products: between 1980 and 1983, the purchasing prices
for grains were progressively marked-up by more than 30X. Thereby
grain production received the strongest price support since the
founding of the PRC;
(b) in 1982, the Government officially recognized and encouraged the
"production responsibility systems as a means of agricultural manage-
ment. In this system, farm households sign contracts with collective
economic units to manage specific pieces of land. A portion of
output is handed over to the Government in the form of quota sales;
another to the collective economic units as management fee and public
reserve. The remaining part is at the free disposal of the farm
household. By the end of 1983, virtually all of the collectives in
China's rural areas had adopted the system. Beginning in 1984, the
people's communnes were dissolved and replaced by people's governments
and village committees at the township and village levels, respect-
ively, with local administrative functions separated from the commun-
ity economic organizationa based on household operation;
(c) the Government has encouraged full utilization of China's abundant
rural labor to develop non-agricultural activities. It is important
to note that by encouraging the development of rural non-agricultural
activities, the Government has clearly shown its support for house-
hold enterprises, partnership, stock enterprises as well as private
enterprises. This has changed the previously-uniform pattern of
public ownership of the means of production in China's countryside,
and provided new impetus for rural economic growth; and
(d)  the Government has opened free markets for agricultural products,
allowing farmers to sell on their own accord the products remaining
after fulfilling State purchase quotas. Along with the development
of product markets, markets for labor, farm inputs. and capital are
also evolving in the countryside.
8.       1985 was a very important year for China's rural reform.  In that
year, the Central Government announced its intention to abolish the State
purchasing monopoly for all of agricultural products except cotton, tobacco,
sugar crops and silk cocoons. With regard to grain, the 'two-tier system" was



ANNEX 4
- 52 -                            Page 5 of 13
introduced, consisting of contract quota purchase and market purchase, i.e.,
the farmer signs a contract to sell part of his marketable grain to grain
management authorities at fixed government prices while the remainder can be
sold to government grain stations at negotiated prices or in the free market.
9.       The achievements of China's rural reform up to now can be summarized
as follows:
(a) the establishment of an organizational structure based on farm house-
hold operation;
(b) the gradual development of commodity markets for farm products and
rural factor markets;
(c) abolition of sole public ownership and development of diversified
forms of ownership and operations-
id) correction of the earlier over-emphasis of grain production and
adjustment of the rural economic structure, and comprehensive, multi-
sectoral development of the rural economy; and
Ce) gradual replacement of the administrative means of rural economic
management with economic levers such as price and interest rate,
contracts and other legal instruments, in an effort to improve the
government's regulatory functions on rural economy.
10.      The above five aspects can be viewed as the achievements of China's
rural reform and at the same time as the basic framework of the new rural
economic system we are building. In- the years ahead, we are going to
consolidate and expand these achievements, and continuously improve the new
rural economic system based on this established framework.
Part III - RURAL REFORM POLICIES: PRESENT AND FUTURE
11.      A basic task in the deepening of China's economic systems reform is
to transform the planned economy into a socialist commodity economy. This
includes tasks In three aspects: (i) reestablish a management and operational
system for enterprises; (ii) foster the market mechanisms; (iii) establish and
improve the macro-regulatory system of the State.
12.      Implementation of these reforms is complicated and arduous.  The
reforms will affect interests of one billion people. What is more, it will be
carried out comprehensively in a developing country with great regional dif-
ferences. It is a typical approach for the Chinese Government to conduct
pilot programs in limited localities and then with the experience obtained,
promote general implementation of the program. This has proven to be an
important experience for the previous reforms. In 1987, the Chinese
Government established rural reform experiment areas in nine counties and
three prefectures in 11 provinces (involving a total population of 30 million,
a total area of 31,000 square km), for the purpose of acquiring knowledge and
necessary parameters to be used to guide overall reform. The central



ANNEX 4
- 53 -                           Page 6 of 13
government also encourages local governments at various levels to
independently make their own reform decisions through approved procedures.
The Government respects the reform initiatives of the local cadres and masses
while paying great attention to ensuring that decisions and policies are well
grounded in local experience.
13.      In the coming years, the Chinese government will advance rural reform
in the following areass
Price Reform
14.      In 1987, the general procurement price index for farm products was
98.8 higher than in 1978. The number of farm products whose prices are set
by the Government decreased from 128 in 1978 to 17 in 1985. At present, less
than 30X of all agricultural products are purchased and sold at administered
prices set by the Government, 402 at market determined prices and 302 at non-
mandatory 'government guidance prices." Grains, for instance, used to be an
exclusive item for unified procurement and marketing by the State. But now
502 of all marketable grains are sold freely by the farmers.
15.      However, the Government still procures 50 million tons of grains at
lower-than-market prices. This is an element of disguised taxation which
depresses production incentives. Food grains are still sold to the urban
population at low prices supported by heavy budgetary subsidies. Although
market prices for meat, poultry, eggs and vegetables are largely decontrolled,
consumer prices for these items in the big cities are subsidized to various
degrees. Beginning from 1988, we will gradually change the system of budget-
ary subsidies on the non-staple foods, such as vegetables, meat, etc., convert
implicit subsidies to explicit subsidies, and restore the regulatory functions
of the market to eliminate the welfare function embodied in the urban food
consumer prices. The present food pricing system continues to constrain farm
production, encourage undue urban consumption and increase the budgetary
burden. In 1985, subsidies for grain and edible oil amounted to Y 20 billion,
an increase of 460Z over 1977.
16.      The major objective of the Chinese Government for food price reform
is to expand the scope of market pricing. Even for daily necessities such as
grain, cotton and edible oil, prices of which need to be partly controlled by
the State, production costs and market forces will be taken into account when
setting the prices. An immediate objective in the price reform for farm
products is to separate the concern for urban well-being from the agricultural
pricing system. General price subsidies for food products will be replaced by
targeted subsidies for low income populations. Between 1988 and 1990, the
Government of China will:
(a) gradually reduce the volume of procurement of farm products at
official prices, increase those producer prices which remain subject
to administrative controls and increase the proportion of sales
through the market so as to gradually transform "two-tier pricing"
into a system of market pricing; and



ANNEX 4
- 54 -                            Page 7 of 13
(b) reduce government subsidies for food sales. Urban consumers them-
selves shall then absorb the impact of the food price increases by
increasing production and income. Government subsidies for food
sales will be granted only to low income groups and those civil
servants, teachers, retired cadres and workers whose incomes are
relatively fixed and depend on the Government's budget.
17.      In 1988, China will carry out extensive experiments throughout the
country to reform food purchasing and marketing systems. Experiments in
Xinxiang, Henan and Yulin, Guangxi, the two reform areas directly under the
central government's supervision, are of particular significance. An
important objective for Henan Province, one of the major grain producers of
the country, is to increase grain production. As a first step in the Xinxiang
program, contract procurement prices for grain will be raised to approach or
equal market prices. Concurrently, agricultural taxes will be readjusted and
subsidies for farm inputs will be reduced. As a second step, the prices for
grains used for industrial purposes except for rationed food, will be decon-
trolled and consumer prices for grain will be raised. As for Guangxi
Province, which is a grain deficit area, one of the immediate objectives of
reform is to constrain undue consumption. On the basis of decontrolled prices
for industrial grains and edible oil, the city of Yulin will raise the prices
for rationed grain to market levels. Producer prices for grain will also be
raised. The reform programs for those two areas began in May and April, 1988,
respectively. Implicit taxes on the farmers will be made explicit and hidden
subsidies (price subsidies) will be changed into overt subsidies so as to lay
a solid foundation for effective operation of the price mechanism. The
Chinese Government will work out reform programs for other regions, based on
experiences in Xinxiang and Yulin and other pilot areas.
18.      In conjunction with price reforms. China will also accelerate system
reforms in the state commercial sector, expand inter-regional trade and
augment policies aimed at more efficient regulation of the supply and demand
of farm products and allocation of resources. Progress in the reform of food
prices, which is the most sensitive reform area, will pave the way for price
reform for other products.
Establishment of a Land Use System
19.      Land is the most important resource in China's rural areas. Under
the production responsibility system, Chinese farmers acquired long-term
rights to land use and autonomy in production decisions. This initiative
represents the beginning of the reform of the rural production system.
However, the present system of land ownership and land use rights is still
rather ambiguous, an ambiguity not conducive to the formation of long-term and
stable expectations, increased farm investment and more intensive use of
inputs. When the household responsibility system was introduced, land was
divided among the peasants equally on a per capita basis. This resulted in
very small holdings (average farm size - 0.61 ha). There has also been the
lack of necessary legal norms governing the transfer of land use rights,
making it difficult for a land market to emerge. A major element of future
reform will be to establish a land system that will strengthen the individual
farmer's right to use the land, while retaining collective ownership, so as to
give him a strong sense of security and stability. The system will also
encourage the transfer of land use rights to improve production efficiency.



ANNEX 4
55                             Page 8 of 13
20.      Prior to 1988 the Government has adopted policies to stabilize and
improve the land contracting system, including provisions for the transfer of
land use rights and compensation for investments in land. However, because of
the lack of definite laws and regulations, progress of the transfer in land
use rights has been very limited.  On April 12, 1988, the Seventh National
People's Congress adopted an amendment to the Constitution. Clause 4 of
Article 10 of the Constitution, which reads: 'No organizations or individuals
may appropriate, buy, sell or lease land, or unlawfully transfer land in other
ways,a was amended to read: "No organizations or individuals may appropriate,
buy or sell land, or unlawfully transfer land in other ways. The right of
land use can be transferred in accordance with the law." Based on this amend-
ment, the Government will, by the end of 1988, formulate implementing policies
and legislation required to establish markets in land use rights, establish
the mortgageability of land use rights, and guide the resolution of land use
disputes.
21.      We will also proceed with trial reforms at the regional level.
Heitan County in Guizhou Province is a poor, labor surplus agricultural area,
where crop production is the main source of farmer's income. Authorities in
Meitan have promulgated local land laws and regulations, which clearly define
land ownership, protect farmer's right to use the land, and also legitimatized
land transfers with compensation. A land bank is being established in the
Meitan program to facilitate mortgageability of leasehold rights so as to
increase agricultural investment, and serve as a medium for promoting the
transfer of land use rights and the growth of a market for this purpose. In
urban areas of China the auctioning of land use rights is becoming an increa-
singly common means of facilitating more efficient use of land.
22.      In labor deficit areas, programs are being implemented to reduce land
fragmentation, convert uneconomically small units to small farms (up to 2 ha)
and facilitate limited small-scale mechanization (sites: Southern Jiangsu;
Nanhai, Guangdong; and Shunyi County, Beijing). In Nanhai County, land
management programs are being implemented in parallel to facilitate efficient
operation of consolidated farms and adjustment of cropping patterns for
export-oriented production. The recently established State Land
Administration has set policies which govern the conversion of land to non-
agricultural use. It intends in 1988 to initiata a national land registration
system to be implemented by land administration bureaus at various levels.
These experiments will provide experiences for the formulation of national
laws and regulations by 1990.
Rural Marketing System Reform and Establishment of Rural Cooperative
Oraanizations
23.      The State's monopoly of commercial activities in the rural areas was
dissolved some years ago. China now permits non-governmental commercial
organizations and individuals to engage in the purchase, transport and sale of
farm products and agricultural inputs in excess of that required by the State.
By the end of 1986, China's rural fairs or rural markets have expanded to
about 63,000. Some 10.4 million workers are involved in rural commercial,
restaurant, transport, and communication services. Future reforms of the
rural marketing system will include:



ANNEX 4
- 56 -                              Page 9 of 13
(a) restructuring the nationwide network of supply and marketing coopera-
tives, to ensure their independence and convert them into farmers'
voluntary organizations, while using their nationwide supply and
marketing channels to better serve the interests of the farmers; and
(b) encouraging farmers to organize new marketing cooperatives or joint
stock ventures, to promote healthy competition with the supply and
marketing coops, and establish stable business relations with
agricultural marketing and processing enterprises in cities and
towns.
24.      In circumstances where there is a lack of intermediary organizations,
and where further reforms are yet to be implemented in state commercial
organizations and the supply and marketing cooperatives (SMCs), the Government
will particularly encourage farmers to organize their own voluntary
cooperatives to engage in purchasing and marketing activities and provide
other production services. This will also promote the reform of the state
owned and SMC commercial system.
25.      Regional experiments with farmers' cooperatives are being conducted
under central government supervision in Yutian County, Hebei Province;
Shangzhi County of Eeilongjiang Province; and Liquan County of Shaanxi
Province. These experiments include the formation of multipurpose, community-
owned cooperatives at village and township levels, and specialized
cooperatives and associated companies which integrate the production,
processing and marketing of high valued commodities. Their capitalization
includes the provision of stabilization funds, also managed by the
cooperative, to insulate members from unexpected fluctuations in price. In
1988 the Government intends to prepare draft cooperative regulations, which
will delineate the internal organization and contractual rights and
obligations of voluntary cooperatives, as well as the responsibilities and
rights of members.
Rationalization of the Rural Enterprise System
26.      China's township, village and private enterprises (TVEs) have
achieved remarkable development. Between 1978 and 1987, TVEs were established
in a wide variety of rural non-farm activity, including industry, construc-
tion, transport and commercial activities. Some 85 million off-farm jobs were
created. During this period, the output value of TVEs increased at an annual
rate of more than 202. By 1987, their contribution to the gross rural social
output value increased to 50.8a, exceeding for the first time, the output
value of agriculture. TVEs have become instrumental to.achieving China's
export objectives--in 1987, TVEs' export accounted for 11Z of China's total
exports,
27.      The objectives for further development of TVEs includes:
(a) by the end of this century, about another 100 million of the rural
labor force will move into non-agricultural employment, thereby
reducing the amount of surplus labor in farm activities and further-
ing the essential shift in China's rural economic structure;



ANNEX 4
- 57 -                         Page 10 of 13
(b)  the Me in China's coastal regions will be encouraged to further
support the country's export drive by producing export commodities.
For this purpose, policies will be enacted in 1988 to (i) facilitate
direct links between producers and agents in importing countries,
(ii) permit greater flexibility in the allocation and uses of foreign
exchange earnings, (iii) adapt to local conditions the national
system of export incentives and import permissions for raw materials
needed for the manufacturing of export commodities, and (iv) set in
place financing facilities and financial services which thus far have
been availed only to publicly-owned corporations.
28.      The major obstacles to the development of TVEs are lack of clarity in
their property rights, scattered investment, low levels of technology, weak
internal management systems, poor economic efficiency, and management disad-
vantages caused by their family and community relationships. All of these
have prevented factors of production from moving to most efficient uses.
These also have hindered integration and expansion of production. To overcome
these problems, we shall, by the end of 1988, implement the following
measuress
(a) a law for TVEs will be formulated to clarify property relationships.
We shall continue to improve the present contractual system for TVEs,
and encourage joint stock organizations at the township and village
levels;
(b) formulate and promulgate a private enterprise law to encourage and
guide the development of private enterprises and ensure their equal
status and treatment vis-a-vis tx obligations, credit and other
business activities, to facilitate increased investment and employ-
ment and to promote fair competition among different types of enter-
prises;
(c) accelerate the implementation of 'Spark' Programs designed to
transfer technology to TVEs and TVEs' cadres training programs;
(d) implement programs to facilitate exports of TVE products, including
reforms in the existing foreign trade system;
(e) reform the financial system and expand financial services to TVEs and
introduce bankruptcy regulations for TVEs, to increase mobility of
their fixed assets, encourage inter-enterprise investment, joint
stock arrangements and other ownership forms; and
(f) formulate industrial policies, adjust the industrial structure of
TVEs, improve governmental support services, and create favorable
economic and social conditions for TVE development.
29.      Although TVE reform is under way in many parts of China, the most
comprehensive reforms are being implemented in Fuyang, Anhui and Wenzhou,
Zhejiang. The Fuyang program includes measures to introduce a company law and
bankruptcy regulations for TVEs, and establish rural industrial parks. The
program also will improve support services for TVEs by adjusting their spatial
distribution and shifting the role of government from supervision to providing



- 58                               ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 13
needed services and training. In the Wenzhou experiments, nine local
enterprise laws have been formulated, of which the most important is the local
private enterprise law. Over the next two years, the Government will monitor
the Fuyang and Wenzhou programs, refine the rules and procedures, and develop
national policies to extend these initiatives throughout the country.
Rural Investment System Reform
30.      Reform of the rural investment system is an important and integral
part of rural financial market reform. Its main objective is to increase
investment efficiency by improving the government's investment performance,
establish new financing channels, improve rural financial institutions'
operational policies and procedures, and promote an expansion and diversifica-
tion of rural financial services. To implement the investment system reform,
the State Council formally established the China Agribusiness Trust and
Investment Corporation (CATIC) in January 1988. CATIC is a new investment
organizations a joint stock company in terms of ownership that will operate as
a full fledged business entity. As one of its major responsibilities, CATIC
will actively support the growth of various rural financial syndicates and
nongovernmental credit cooperative organizations. Through assistance to these
financial intermediaries, CATIC will help mobilize the large reserves of cash
held by farmers (farmers' cash holdings are approximately equal to their bank
deposits) and reserve funds previously owned by the people's communes so as to
increase total financing for rural productive investment. Apart from CATIC,
the State Council also established an umbrella Trust Fund for Land Development
and Construction, through which the newly-imposed land conversion tax will be
channelled for agricultural development. Administration of this Fund will be
the reRponsnbility of a newly formed state-level leadingo group.
31.      Consistent with refbrm of the investment system, rural financial
market reforms also have been introducel at the regional level. These region-
al reforms cover operational system of the formal intermediaries and recognize
numerous autonomous financial service societies that have emerged in rural
China. In Guanghan County, Sichuan, the specialized banks and state banks
were permitted in 1987 to diversify their branch networks to urban and rural
areas, and expand their financial services. Good results are being realized.
These banks also were allowed to establish investment corporations, thereby
greatly enhancing their long-term financing capabilities. Trial reforms of
the rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) have also been introduced in Guanghan to
enable the RCCs to reestablish themselves as independent entities. Provisions
in current banking regulations were modified to permit interbank borrowing.
For the latter, a clearing house was set up in 1987 to facilitate interbank
transactions.
32.      During the remainder of 1988 and 1989 we intend to:
(a) reorganize the entire public sector investment planning and financing
system of China, including: (i) the establishment, under the newly
reorganized State Planning Commission, of state investment corpora-
tions (which will be responsible for investment program decisions
hitherto taken by government ministries); (ii) the refinement of
provincial and local responsibilities pertaining to investment; and
(iii) further reform of the banking system;



ANNEX 4
- 59 -                           Page 12 of 13
(b) make CATIC operational and begin the financing of projects which will
promote rural reform, mainly in coastal export-oriented regions;
(c) introduce reform of the specialized banks and RCCs in several other
regions, based on an analysis of the Guanghan experiments; and
(d) establish and revise as necessary trial rules and regulations (begin-
ning with regional rules and regulations) to supervise and facilitate
expansion of non-state financial institutions.
33.      In connection with Section (d) above, efforts will begin in Fuyang
Prefecture, Anhui Province, where three such entities are already operating
under the purview of financial administration agencies. Here four additional
financial service societies will be established in 1988 to operate under
various organizational forms and types of ownership. In addition, numerous
farmers' credit societies have been set up in Shangzhi County, Heilongjiang
and other areas. Guidance will be provided to them through training and
establishment of necessary rules and regulations. To support this effort, the
Government also intends in 1988 to review rural financial market policies and
prepare guidelines for future reform of the rural financial system. We intend
that the results of this review, expected by end-1989, will facilitate the
formulation of nationwide policies.
Part IV - LEADING INSTITUTIONS
34.      China's rural reforms have been implemented under the direct leader-
ship of the Party Central Committee and the State Council. The Research
Center for Rural Development of the State Council and the Party's Research
Group on Rural Policies serve as the major coordinating agencies for the
central authorities. Local governments at various levels have corresponding
departments responsible for the formulation and implementation of reform
programs based on local conditions. The provinces where experimental areas
are located have set up leading bodies and executing agencies to be respon-
sible for the pilot reform work in these areas. Monitoring systems have been
established for each of the experiments, which include sample surveys,
horizontal and vertical comparative surveys and various indicators needed to
evaluate the results.
35.      Provincial governments and their rural work departments monitor
initiatives in the reform process through routine channels of communication
and consultation so as to extend these initiatives. The Central Government
has well established means to monitor and regulate the reform process. These
include administrative reports, topical research and surveys, periodic
national conferences, the news media, public opinion and official consulta-
tions. Special monitoring arrangements are designed on an "as needed" basis.



ANNEX 4
- 60                            Page 13 of 13
Part V - A LOOK AHEAD
36.      In our development strategy we shall continue to deepen and extend
the rural reform process. During the remaining years of the Seventh
(1986-1990) Five-Year Plan and throughout the Eighth (1991-1995) Five-Year
Plan, we will continue to stress agriculture, which is extremely important and
has a direct bearing on overall economic development and reform. The steady
growth of agriculture and improvement of the structure of production in rural
areas are the foundation for sound, long term development of the entire
economy. We will continue to make rational adjustments in the urban and rural
economic relationship and in the rural production structure, actively promote
further diversification and development of TVEs. Local authorities will
allocate more financial resources to the development of agriculture to step up
capital construction in farm land and water conservancy, increase the capacity
for preventing floods and drought, and improve the basic physical conditions
for agricultural production. We will devote major efforts to limit the land
conversion to non-agricultural uses, improve low-yielding land, and protect
and make good use of the existing land resources.   We will increase the
production and supply of such agricultural inputs as chemical fertilizers,
plastic sheeting, pesticides, diesel oil, electric power and farm machinery.
We will intensify research in agriculture, actively extend our results to
farmers and spread the use of improved crop varieties and animal breeds.
While accelerating the development of agricultural production, we will also
pursue policies aimed at restraining excess consumption of agricultural
products and guide consumption in a way that is compatible with China's
agricultural resources, levels of production and foreign trade possibilities.
With these policies, the prospects for crop production, forestry, anima'.
husbandry, sidealine production and fisheries, as well as township and village
enterprises, are all very encouraging.



-61-                                                                  A
_  ~~~~~~~~~~~~rty  4 VW" MOMu
liy aet"                         bt                                        Recent  otion                                    tedd  acti
A. 19$8.86                                A. 3988 may-pee) - 1989
hateIbd Rethatina              promte do d ulot e              - RstriCtt       on nteptovinal tranTpor-               i   Ib        o  tot reduce local 8 -
wal tfection     itaroel         tattoo and _nketing rolaxed.                          et o". annd .ingxiflujian/Oasndeng
and _po%t m_*t few             - rael to en  t_apor  rymei e within                roform to elidnite in#treovineial mat-
AgricuItUtAl OeAdittlS.          nzben  ar*s  tor btZ teit purpse  puerit-         hattin  raatrtcttia.
Develop aN  monrte               ted.                                               lplelnt and  Mtor Rpe to develop
apprite maetins                - Prtvete and collctiwely ownd marting              genCal purpose agricultural mrketing
cika, inldnl  Verti-             coapnle allowed to c_eto with Sewe,               ebhannelsad Integrated chalns for epa-
cally integrtad syst             finarncing trm bheking sy*tse autborised.         ceSlizd line  with support from (locally
fer spectiald  1tin.           -  oliie  aunced to raduce proltteration            flnaned) prce eqwalsation fund  and
ladus or ro  huler b   s         of loet 1lo    ivermnot tfe  and erchorge.        _erber-owd  fnnicial arvite conpentes.
to Interc    l trade to        - dpply and marketing cooativ   created             Develop *induntrsl' as_ociatim  along
prowte ntiool integra-           to broaden rtal inputs dintrihution net-          comodity line. ad ipro9e sarbttog
tloe of rural  _c.o.             sek. Inpbu  Manufacturen not _woed by             facilities nd market aoca. in the main
Iop"v  the efficiency ad         State pemitted to establish ow  dietrihu-         urban ares tor perishables and other
c_etitiSs ot m"et-               tion system.                                      high-wd  omdIties beina distributed
in  system. Uberliza           - n ove-qota sales ine market oentbr-               outside of offieil ch els (Foangt Pre-
erketin  ch_als for the          teed f r eolitts end input seubject to            featur. chni  hnyS County. beijing;
coieartal diStribution of        two-ttack pricing,                                ancd USnshi Reionajin).
lpte.                                                                            - lplant ad tmDter progmant  to decn-
traie  prt earkating  In 8 provinces.
- tPlment nd  onitor R1t to establish
anitiperpose. comnilty-ouned co"oeratives
(Vutian. Noebl) and specia purpoae mat-
keting coerative  (sha3 bi
-   repae draft ooperation regulations.
S. 1987-1988 (Jab-Apr)                           b. ltner-Tefn Proares
= Rutiona tested In I"? tn Phoyng                -Tak  stock of prtse   Under neat-ter
debul to r_de  and a lfy adatra-                 action progress devlop generalized
timn local govarneent aetig aw-                   olicy frinok and imlemnt nationwie.
changes, elinate licensin  of interl             isue natilonal rntlone  to eliinate
trde, oested to shal   vince io Nb               Iotrprovincial wothtin  restrictionas
1948.                                            prnagate anel coopeties orgsnize.
-Rstrictons en interprowincial aveant            tial coda. standard _.berahip paree-
agricultural god betwn iSaz and                  s_t. and a _operotiva. low.
ongdong asd Tujlan rtovine disenia.
tgesin  for amoi to e*idat market
-eelo_met and ltegrtio          vane,.
-ergeisattenal toms finaized and
pprovd by Stat Concl for implements-
tieo (olt esUngh C_b      nty,
551 iangites  Pr°ic; Ptya  Prefctur
Of debit Prov     e-   Siminpi Couty,
Bejn).
- D n  for RfgP  to develep  _coperative
marketing or-nointies approved (uaira
RebeS ld Shogsht, RalidSgjeog).
- Deovin       of asbuarity to   _ men    eponr
marketins, e hstabl   mor flezlble tred
ri    nd teig  exchage allocation
yStem,  nd eportnlsprt   ktieg e"-
niztaess to S of Cidisa 30 provine.
Ongpl"litieS  and autoomaeo  zones.



- 62-                                                               ANX 5
Page 2
Pollcy aea                       Objectives                                   Recent ectona                                     Intended actions
A. 1984-86                                  A. 1988 (Nas-Dec) - 1989
PricingJSubaidlesjTaxation       Further reduce th, volume        - N"rly eal producer price controls remd           - legin to phase out contract grain pur-
of procurement of form             etcept for 12 basic or strategic comnodi-          chaes, slilaate ferttiliter retatl sub-
Note: These reforme would        products under adutini-            ties.  Latter. partially liberalised after          stdy. reduce urban sales subsidies by l-
coaplement the very large        tared pricing, Increase            to-tiered system adopted to 1985. con-             lting eligbillty end lacreaidng sales
producer price inerease          those prices which remin           mists of contract (quota) sales at sdmin-          prices. Increase the agricultural land use
for gralns and otbe; pri-        subject to adinistrative           ltered prices and above-quota alee  at             tea snd realign bases for assessmeant.
mary agricultural products       controls, so as to (i)             market or negotiated prtices.                       flaplesentation began 05/88 In xinxteng,
introduced durtnn  the          gradually tranefotr  tvo-         - T9  pricee set free as catter of policy            henan RRP (grain surplus area). Similar
early 1980s, reduced scope       tier" pricing Into a sys-          unleas TIP  sells to or distributes on             effort began 04/88 In Tulin, Guanga&  RRP
of administered pricing          tea of marketing pricing,          behalf of those so0. which reman subject            (grain deficit area).) Nonitor.
(fro  902 of agricultural        and  tl) permit a rural           to administered pricing.                           Design general progran to phase out urban
productlon value in 1979         price structure to develop       - Twn-track system Introduced for tartilla-          gratn eales subsidies, elisinate retail
to 402 In 1985), and the        which can reflect local             er  produeed 'above plan," though retail           inputs subsidies.
phase-out of consumer sub-       scarcities and interna-            subitdies introduced In 1985 to eucourage        - Develop land taxation policles for subse-
sidles on processed grain       tional trade opportuni-             farmers to accept grain delivery quotaa            quent 1mpleantation nstionvide.
producte.                       ties.  Progressively re-          - In 1985/86, subsidies for meet, poultry,
duce urban conausption             eggs, aquatic products and vegetables sub-
subsidies on food esales           stantially reduced or elimin ted in most
and  ake these wore trans-         urban areas. About 112 state revenues now
parent. Retarget food              allocated to subsidize difference between
rationing system to the            grain sales and procueament prices.
urban poor and tfied-
income households. Ia-                     B. 1987-1988 (Jon-APT)                              B. Longar-Ter  Program
prove tax buoyancy and
equity by removing laput         - For graine, quots price set at 70S of            - Subsidles reduction program for urban
subsidies and replacing            negotiated price. In 1987, 50S of all              grains sales to be phased In, starting
the output tax ipIlilt In         grain sales were at market or negotiated            with "aller and mediuw-sized cities, then
below-arket price quota            prices.                                            movng to large cities.
obligations by na explicit       - Decision (late 1987) to accelerate graln         - Agricultural land tacation policies to be
tac based on the value of          pricing reforma.                                   Implemented natlonvida  beginning with
agricultural land.                                                                    more developed zone.
(Direct agricultural taxa-
tion yields only 2-3X of
GdO, and discrimintes
against gratn farmes.)



63 -                                                                   eK  5
Page .~
Policy area                      Objeetives                                   Recent aetione                                   Intended actions
A. 1984-86                                  A.  I9S8 (oAy-Dde  - 19S9
lnd llsnagownt SvPtems           Iprove the securtty of         - Torm lea    of 15-30 yer Permitted                  M crr  precise land aaeaeasents, a *yatem of
land use rights by formal-         (1984) for growing annual and tree crops.          land use certificates, reform of local
%otel  Average  g?tiil-          iting telattenahlps which          latergeneratlonsl land t ransfers condoned.        administrative procedures, and a lend bank
tcral holding . 0.61 ho;        govern lad unse under the                                                              to be incorporated In lensehold gRP during
dtvided into 9.2 plots.          household production  Ia-                                                              1988 (b eitan, CuishnoI   Covernemodt aluo
apunsbility system. Ia-                                                                ntend  to extend JIangsus lonand colsol
tprove agriultura Iland                                                               datton RgP to additional locales durtng
tsaivton to provide Incen-                                                            1988.
tnd ue. Cmarete egricut-                                                            - Strengthen land  eOgltry system, clarify
landl use.Ceatel agrkeuts                                                             ProvIsIons In National Land Adminis:ration
Wthral lea ehold  arkets                                                              lOw governtng conversion of farmland to
fwoth land ca collateral                                                              nonegritultural uses in 1988.
fr fina     l and ther                                                              - Policies end regulations to be Issued by
tranactovemns t securfefrom                                                           end 1988 for establishing sarkets in lend
local tovfstent lndue fer                                                             rights, sortgageab itty and to guide reso-
sne,l to foster lend uae                                                              lutIon of claims.
acontitens warrant-to                                                               - Ionltor programs. Refine successful coln
reduce land fragenrstton.                                                             POnnt.
In labor-deficit zones                      B. 1987-1988 (Jan-Apr)                             8. toaner-Tern Protras
(covering 15-202 of the
arable land area). create        - Nationel Land Adinistration Law btought          - Introduce regional/oatlonal policIes baeed
econoaically-slxed caesar-         Into force, January 1 1987, to ratIonal-          on Initial experience to facilitate
dial farting units through         ISe rural and urban land use, establish            general admnistration  of agricultural
village-based programa and         the State l,and Adeloistration, clarify            land, ealeltranae   farcutrlla
intreduction of  ppropti-         land rental and taxation obligatione  man-          holds, regulate farmer  rentaultural lea ae-
*te uachenicatlon.                 date land recordtig  pytema at the county          obligatton.
level  nd  net forth general policy to
govern conversion of agriculture land to
other ueas.
- Constitution mended April 1988 to leogal-
ice transfer of land laame rights.
- sP set up to teat atricultural leasehold
system, Including draft ls" to define
nenrahip and tafsrer rights to use and
transfer lend, nd comprehensIve lAnd ma-
ageamnt ragulatioes. (Oitan, Guizhou).
- RRP onderway In labor-deficit cones to
reduce land fregmantatin, convert edero-
size farming unite into mint-farms (up to
2 ha). small-ecale echanization. empbhssl
on gratn (sites; Southern Jtangaun Pnhal
County, Guangdong; ad Shunyl County,
Beijing).



- 64-                                                                       AMNNEX 
PDge r
Pollcy area                      Objectie                                     Reaent actton                                    Intended actions
A. .1984-8                                  A.  198 (May-Dec) - 1989
Rural l-duntrialition           long-tern  objective ia to        - far1l authortty given to rural localities        - In 1988. accelerate 'Spark' progree, t_-
provde equal trerteent             to rapidly develop n     rcultural activi-         plemot policies to facilitate W   export
notes Between 1979-67            for all Industrial eanter-         ties under all fors of ownership.                 drive.
60 stillon off-f  jobs          priea  ragardlese of type         - Sharp Increases ln credit and other              - to  unog  Anhut RIRP, Introduce copantes
created. Governeent ts          of oanerhip.  lorae i1-             resources to TMe.                                  lev for TIE  (possibly eloa  eparate regu-
targeting 100 smito  sore       diate objectives for rural       - Contracting  leseing and sale of anserous           lations for pvawte enterprtses); bank-
by the year 2000 to absorb       industry are to support            co.mnty-owned Me to private Individo-              ruptcy regulations for WVEn; imnroved pro-
growias rural workforce         and reinforce the develop-          ala end groupe.                                    vision of various support services to
and reduce redundancy In        went of TME  and other            - Cradual resoval of previoua ta  exoeptlons         tVE , partly through encouraging TVB to
frtnSg.                         coamercial entities whose           fer many TV.                                       relocate In tndustrtal parks nov being
growth is providinS off-                                                              established; and shift role of local gov-
fare inco*e and esloyuont                                                             ernment agenies from supervison to pro-
opportunities for iDcreas-                                                            vaion of needed services and training.
ing nusbhre of rural                                                                - In Vlenhou City RRP, introduce trial pri-
people. Provide internal                                                              vate enterprise law and supporting regula-
songesent and institu-                                                                 tionr.
ttonal support. in tesz                                                             - By end 1989, proculgate WE law for col-
of useful organizational                                                              lectively owned enterpries and private
uodels and mnagemt eye-                                                                enterprte law snd bankruptcy regulations.
tea, a  ore secure and                                                              - hnitor RRPs, refine rules and procedures
iees arbitrary external                                                               for extension to other regions.
commercial environment.
Clarify regultions $v                       B. 198t-1988 (Jan-fAr)                             S. Langer-Tor  Protras
erning their operations
and transections, ad             - Rovel of limts on else of private tVa            - Nationwide  ipleentation of successful
strengthen the Industrial          and other enterpriae .                             components.
and cemercial support            - Spectal progre annouaced to foster tech-
systes (Induetrtal exten-          nolog  tranfer to TWe (e.g. "fperl pro-
sion. finacial policies.           gras) and encourage WVE exports from
et4.).                             coaetal zones.
-Designs for nev phase of reonal reform
(TWe and other collectively and privately
owned enterprise) finlized and approved
by State Council (sitest Pyatg Prefec-
ture, Anhuit Wenshon City, Ehejing; and
h-anei i mlongjiSaf).
- CntittIon amended April 1988 to ee-
tion privately-oned enterprises end
facilitate their exption.



-  65 -                                                                ANSE 
Policy SrT                       *betti                                     Rcnt actions                                   Intended actiens
A. 194-66                                 A. 198S (my-aec) - 1989
Rual Investment                Iprowv the  gaisatiun           -  nto  al policy of  eorEinEg"  rutal            - SPC reorganisation, ministerial reorgoni-
and menagmet of public           private nvestment conftirmed by the               taton and devolution state inatmant
inweetmeet progms and            Politburo (184). mde Into offfintl state          program to be  Iplseatad.
improve saitenaaca of            pltcy.                                          - Planning systes for tera lork  to be re-
rural Infreatructure.  D.-                                                         veped; designs pf works progres at pro-
limt policy fraeaotk to                                                           vnocal and local levels to be fnslisted
eneoura   private invet-                                                           for sploentation duriag 1988.
ent, reduce the risks                                                            - State Council to formulate replations for
attendant with investment                                                          levyntg voter ust fee under Water
which mst be fae"d in                                                               eaoure tav.
Chins's present tural                                                            - SOE law, bankruptcy nd retrueturing rea-
busina  environment.                                                                 atfon to be implemnted.
- Trial rgulations and enctments to define
hulnos personallty for Tve, comrciel
farmers and mrketingservice coopera-
ttiwa define and delimit asat ownership,
transfer end dsposal, and regularies on-
trectnal rights end obligations to be
tested in RRYn (Psyang, abel; Neitan,
Casiboo; mouno. Beijing; Paubsi,
Guangdong; Wethu ecity; Soutbhrn Jiagaug
_hfi  elilons3jin).
- monitor effects of devolution policies,
rural work progra  designs and SOC regu-
lation. (1988-90). Refine as needed to
accommodate reional differences.
- Monitor impect of trial regulAtions for
tM. comercial fanmra  nd marketinsl
erwica c    ratives (19U8889). refine and
prepere policy nd reulatory framorka
for nationwide implemntation.
B. 1981-988 (JanApr)                             B. Looser-Teem Progrtm
- rolution of publie investment reeponmi-        - Nationwide  mplementatin of rural works
bilities to the provincial level                 prors, tailored to regiont aesds.
annouced. Program to reorganise SPC            -  nmplnt policy end reglatory framework.
form inwatmeat corporations to sdminister        for TM. ete. nationwide.
state  nveatmnt protrac, real   idnis-
tries to coordinate and monitor transfers
to provinces approved April 1988.
- Guidelines to reauscitate rual works on
bests of off-season labor isvsed by NUREP.
BY Nsrch 1988. detailed iplemeutation
Prograss announced by 12 provinces.
- Water Resource Ia approved, Aprl 1988.
to govern financing of rater reaource
developmnt projecta and coot reconry
rens neara.
- At enterprise level, SOE eanageent mde
accountable (tbrough sained contracts) for
enterprise inveatmeat daciatone and finan
clot performnce.
- Law for SOX ownrhp, organistti,
rloits and r_sspmibities and bankruptcy
regulation  approved Aprl 1988.



Peg. 6
Policy ore                       Objectives                                   Recent actions                                    Intended action
A. 1984-86                                  A.  1988 (NOv-Dee) - 1989
Credit nd Finance                Pronte developent of a           - Increas In interest rates and mor  flex-         - Develop CAXIC organisation, betnes  plAn,
rul financial syatem               ible rate-setting introduced for local             procedures and staffing. Start-up opera-
which will efficiently             boak branches.                                     tions minly in coastal export-oriented
sobilize rural houheold          - FPrtial institutional seartion of Rural            areas. Fore subsidiary investment corpo-
saving  and intenrediate           Credit Cooperatives from the Agricultural          rations under wing of CATIC.
funds for private agricul-         Bank of China.                                   -  nitor operation of Duangbhn, Sichunn
tural and rural nonagri-        - Partial restoration of 'cooperative'                RRP; introduce reform of specialized banks
cultural investments.              nature of former.                                  and RCCa io severl other areas.
- Incipient coepetition among banks permit-        - Expand and monitor operatio  of fuyang.
ted in certain localities.                         Anhui RRP; establish rules and procedures
co regulate accounting and accountability,
define relationship of the inforl sector
to foral financial institutions.
- Intiate general review in 1988 of rural
fiasncial mrket policies to prepare
guidelines for a general reform. By, end
1989, for slAte nAtionwide policies which
e'conaa  these guidelies.
S.  1987-1988 (Jan-Apr)                            S. Longer-Term Program
- U8P initiated to iaprove flexibility, bank       - ap-enant nationwide policies.
lending autonomy *nd accountability, per-
nit Interbank borrowing, establish clear-
ing house, sever reuining links between
RRCo end ARC (Gusngban, Sichusn).
- RRP initiated to test legal and regulatoxr
principles and encourage informal credit
markets (Fuyang, Anui).
- Chins Agribueineas Investent 6 Trust
Corp. (CATIC) established at central level
to support developuent of local financial
service institutions through participtions
and loans.
- Trust Fund for Land Development and Con-
struction established by State Council to
ebnnel land conversion taxes into agri-
cultural development projects.



ANNEX 6
- 67-                                    -
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Main Regional Reform Programs Under
Central Supervision
Policy area                         Site                Comments               Status
Land Management Systems
Land markets                   Meitan, Guizhou      Labor surplus area          Underway
Consolidation                  South Jiangsu,       Labor deficit area          Underway
Nanhai, Guangdong
Shunji, Beijing
Grain System Reforms
Farm pricing,                  Xinxiang, Henan      Grain surplus area           Began 05/88
subsidies/taxation
Pricing and subsidies          Yulin, Guangxi       Grain deficit area          Began 04/88
Rural Industrialization
Business environment           Fuyang, Anhui,       Private sector              Underway
marketing/support              Wenzhou City
Marketing/support services    Shangzhi, HLJ          Collectively-owned         Underway
Rural Institutions
General marketing              Y Yutian, Hebei      Multipurpose cooperatives  Underway
farmer services
Exports & market integration  Shangzhi, HJ          Special purpose             Underway
cooperatives
Rural Financial Markets
Formal sector                  Guanghan, Sichuan    Various:  to improve        Underway
services of RCCs and
specialized banks
Informal services sector       Fuyang, Anhui        Mobilize rural deposits,   Underway
foster TVE capitaliza-
tion
CATIC                          Beijing              Apex investment and trust  Underway
corporation



ANNEX 7
- 68 -
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Contents of Loan Implementation Volume
Working Paper                         Title
No. 1                          Policy and Performance Review
No. 2                          Rural Sector Performance Outlook
No. 3                          Grain System Reform
No. 4                          Reform of the Land Management System
No. 5                          Rural Industrialization
No. 6                          Inland Marketing and Service Reforms
No. 7                          A Review of Rural Financial Markets and
Institutions
No. 8                          Monitoring Framework



NOTES



MAP SECTION
/



%                             4M
IBRD 208U     V
U.S.S.R.
u .       s          s .       R .
HEI(ONGJIANG
El
ACI-Fhl
MONGOLIA                                   jlr,
N
NEI MONGOL
XfNJIANG                                                                                                                   $?NING
N                                                                                                                                                                        LIA                                     jo-vqp
X                                                                                                     PEOPLE'S USUC
X.-GHANISTANI                                                                                                                                                      \y                    OF KOREA
)HEBEI
RE:Pueuc
OF KOREA
SHANXI
44ANDONG
v               II
KILOMETERS                                                        QINGHAI
Al,
0      200     400     600     SW                                                                              NSU                                                                                            "-f
NXI
6    160   260   360   460                                                                                                                   HENAN
Fuy=V
MILES
?ANHUI
APPROXIMATE SCALI!                       XIZANG                                                                                                               w
W6
HUBEI
5e
SICHUAN
HEJIANGz
CHINA                                                                                                                 JIA  axf'
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                                                                                  HUNAN
FUJIAN
)ZHOU
Regiowl kform Program (RRP) Shes
LAND MANAGEMEKT SYSTEM:                         RURAL COOPERATIVES
Ld-  wmplus am                           (MARKETING, SUPPORT SERVICES),   'JI/                                                                4!
Labor deficit areas                             M.H*T-
E)                                                                                        YUNNA                                            GUANGDONG
Spedo, pirp-                                                      GUANGXI                                                                               PA C If- iC
GRAIN SYSTEM / AGRICULTURAL TAXATION,
RURAL FINMCKL INSTITUTIONI&
Grain wous am                                                                                                                             '11 -  KONO, U.K.
1111011    I   dor                                                                     R
Gmin deficit croo
v                                               4g> F.,.l moor                                                                                   btACAO, PORT,                                               CYC   A P
RURAL INDUSTFJES (TVFs)..
Private wwrship                                                           SUR"                       VIET N"
C.Iledive .Wlp
Proviincelloundaries                             LAO PWPLE'S  AI                                              Soulh    Ch;,c,
iomi 5..dwies                                DEMOCRATIC
REPUBUC
TMLMD
APOL IM



