Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Repofl No. 10329
Report No. 10329-CHA Type: (PCR)
DUANE, P. / X31753 / T9 049/ OEDD1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2967-CHA AND CREDIT 1932-CHA)
FEBRUARY 14, 1992
Country Department II
Agriculture Operations Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restited dstrblon and may be used by redpient only In the perfonnrma   of
dwk officki duies. Its contets may nt othendse be diclosed wihout Wodd Bank atholuzadon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 5.27
Y 1.00  =  $0.19
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1.00 jin  =  0.50 kg
1.00 kg   -   2.00 jin
1.00 mu   =   0.067 ha (1/15 ha)
1.00 ha   -   15.00 mu
ABBREVIATIONS
CATIC  - China Agribusiness Trust & Investment Corporation
EZO    -  Experimental Zone Office
MOA    - Ministry of Agriculture
.OC    - Ministry of Commerce
MOF    - Ministry of Finance
PBC    -  People's Bank of China
?RS    -  Household Production Responsibility System
RCRD   -  Research Center for Rural Development
RE     -  Rural Enterprise
RRP    - Regional Reform Program
RSAL   -  Rural Cector Adjustment Loan and Credit
SATIC  -  State Agribusiness Trust & Investment Corporation
SECAL  -  Sector Adjustment Loan
SLA    -  State Land Administration
SOE    -  State-Owned Enterprise
TICS   -  Township Industrial Corporations
TVCE   -  Township and Village Collective Enterprise
TVE    -  Township and Village Enterprise



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 14, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on China
Rural Sector Adiustment Proiect (Loan 2967-CHA and Credit 1932-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on China - Rural Sector Adjustment Project (Loan 2967-CHA
and Credit 1932-CHA)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office.
Part II is a summary of a Project Completion Report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
Ths documont has a restricted distrbution and may be used by *adpients only In the performance of
thaei offci du"es. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorzation.



WOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2967-CHA and Credit 1932-CHA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  i
Evaluation Summary  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .           iii
PART 1:  REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.  MIS PARTICULARS  .1...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
II.  BACKGROUND .1...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Macroeconomic Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                2
III.  LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 5
IV. IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE .10
The Rural Reform Programt National Policies  . . . . . . . .               10
Progress With the Reform Experiments . . . . . . . . . . . .               16
Diffusion/Dispersion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               20
Procurement and Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               ?.
Monitoring and Coordination .21
V. LESSONS LEARNED .22
General   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .   .   .  .  22
Program Components .23
Loan Format .25
Lessons From the Bank's Supervision Effort . . . . . . . . .               26
Role of the Bank .27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
PART 2:  REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . .  30
FOREWORD   .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .  30
I. A GENERAL REVIEW OF CHINA'S ECONOMIC STRUCTURAL REFORM . . .   31
II. A GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE CONDITIONS OF CHINA'S RURAL
ECONOMIC REFORM  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
III.  REFORM OF THE GRAIN PURCHASE AND SALES SYSTEM  . . . . . . .  42
IV.  EXPERIMENT IN LAND SYSTEM BUILDING . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
V.  THE EXPERIMEN. [N RURAL ECONOMIC COOPERATIVES  . . . . . . .  55
VI.  EXPERIMENTS IN BUILDING UP A TVE SYSTEM  . . . . . . . . . .  60
VII.  RESTRUCTURING OF THE RURAL FINANCIAL AND INVESTMENT SYSTEMS   66
VIII.  EXPERIMENTS IN THE STRUCTURAL REFORMS IN FORESTRY, ANIMAL
HUSBANDRY, FISHERIES, STATE FARMS & POVERTY STRICKEN AREAS .   73
IX.  STATE AGRIBUSINESS TRUST & INVESTMENT CORPORATION (SATIC)     86
PART 3: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  90
I.  BASIC  DATA   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  90
II.  STATUS OF COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS . . . . . . . . . .  93
III.  SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE IN THE RURAL REFORM PROGRAM . . . . .  94
ANNEX:  Borrower's Comments .............. .. .    101



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2967-CHA and Credit 1932-CHA)
Preface
This project completion report has been prepared for the China Rural
Sector Adjustment Loan and Credit (RSAL), which were approved on June 23, 1988
to support the second phase of China's rural reform program. The LoAn
Agreement, in the amount of $200 million, and the Development Credit
Agreement, for an amount of SDR 72.24 million (equivalent to $100 million at
the time of Board Approval) were signed on July 15, 1988. The Loan and the
Credit were declared effective on September 19, 1988. The Credit was fully
disbursed by October 17, 1988 and the Loan was fully disbursed by September
18, 1989, well in advance of the Closing Date of July 31, 1990.
The Government of China submitted a draft PCR in December 1990,
which was reviewed with the RSAL implementing agencies in January 1991. The
Government's PCR, totaling 163 pages, has been placed on file and a summary is
presented in Part II of this report. The full PCR, submitted to the
Operations Evaluation Department, was prepared by the former China/Mongolia
Department on the basis of findings of the completion mission, the Borrower's
PCR, site visits in China and a review of project files. The report was
reviewed in China by the office responsible for the RSAL within the State
Council's Leading Group for Rural Reform, whose comments are annexed hereto.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2967-CiA and Credit 1932-CHA)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
i.        The RSAL aimed to finance critical foreign exchange expenditures and
assist with the implementation of China's second phase program for rural
reform. The program was designed to increase rural productivity and promote
policy and institutional experimentation in order to deepen reforms in criti-
cal segments of the rural economy. The main objectives of the Government's
program were to foster agricultural development and specialization: increase
efficiency; encourage nonfarm rural enterprises--both industrial and commer-
cial, expand rural exports; provide productive off-farm employment opportuni-
ties; and improve the range and efficiency of rural financial services. The
program also had a fiscal component--to reduce subsidies on urban food con-
sumption and agricultural inputs, and improve the buoyancy of agricultural
taxation.
ii.       The Government intended to implement the second-phase program over a
period of 5-10 years. The RSAL policy package was designed to support incep-
tion of the second phase through actions to be taken in 1988-90, and featured
reforms at two levels: laws and regulatory measures to extend reforms that
had already been tested successfully at the regional level and were ready for
implementation nationwide, and tailored regional reform experiments to devise
principles for subsequent national policies. Mainly through support for the
Government's regional reform experiments, the RSAL encompassed specific
reforms to promote:
(a) the liberalization of grain pricing and internal trade;
(b) market development and integration;
(c)  reform of the rural lund management system;
(d)  support services and the business environment for nonstate rural
industries;
(e) marketing and service organizations in the less commercialized areas
of China's rural economy;
(f) state level support for investment in agriculture; and
(g) the diversification of rural financial markets and widening of ser-
vices.



- iv -
Other facets of the Government's program which were encomp.3sed within the
RSAL framework included trial reforms of agricultural inputs pricing and the
system of agricultural taxation.
iii.     Dr.   s of the second-phase program were already in an advanced
state of prepa ition when the Bank was asked to assist, and most of the RSAL
conditions were agreed to readily in the course of a six-month preparation
effort. The Goverument initially resisted inclusion of a rural financial
market component, citing resistance from the People's Bank of China and con-
cern that the lead agency may not have sufficient expertise to effectively
coordinate implementation. As experimental programs under the Lead Agency's
purview were already underway in this policy area, the Government eventually
accepted the Bank's position: that inclusion of RFM components within the
RSAL framework would facilitate the provis,ion of needed technical assistance
through the Fourth Rural Credit Project 'then. under preparatijn) and by Bank
supervision missions for the RSAL.
Implementation Experience
iv.       The loan and credit became effective three months after Board
approval, and both were closed nine months ahead of schedule. The loan and
credit proceeds were used mainly for the importation of fertilizers and other
agricultural inputs, and a larger share of the counterpart proceeds were allo-
cated to support the regional reform experiments and general rural development
programs than was anticipated at appraisal.
v.        In the second half of 1988, the Government began to implement an
economic stabilization program to regain control over China's overheated econ-
omy. Under this program to "Rectify the Economic Order," largely administra-
tive measures were implemented to restore internal and external balance, and
severely curtail the expansion of monetary aggregates. The stabilization
program had an adverse impact on the RSAL package. In particular, the nation-
wide agricultural pricing reforms noted in the policy letter had to be post-
poned (for fear of exacerbating inflation), while enactment of several laws to
specify property rights and articulate a business environment for rural indus-
tries and commercialized marketing cooperatives was deferred (for fear of
weakening administrative controls deemed necessary to facilitate the stabili-
zation program). The contraction of finance and credit also had an adverse
impact on the experimental reform programs, especially on those designed to
test reforms for rural industries and rural financial Intermediation.
vi.       In the wake of the Tiananmen events of June 1989, a profound
reassessment of the Government's approach to economic reform began, which
consumed the Chinese leadership for the better part of the period between June
1989 and June 1990.   During this period, vision and commitment from the top
for the rural reforms seemed to waver, and the second-phase program--both at
the national level and in the experimental zones--first slowed in 1989, then
stalled. By mid-1990, however the debate had closed in favor of continued
reform, and several official decisions led to a restarting of the second-phase
program and its RSAL components: first at the experimental level, then in
Fall 1990 at the national level with the creation of the first genuinely com-
mercial grain exchanges, followed in May 1, 1991 by a major increase in urban
ration sales prices for the main foodgrains and edible oils (the first such
increase in 25 years).



Lessons Learned
vii.      Being designed to support the only systematic ongoing attempt (in
1988) by a socialist country to accelerate the transition of its rutal economy
from plan to market, the RSAL did not resemble the usual SECAL. There were no
firm, tested guidelines available in 1988 (indeed, the jury is still out on
the more recent attempts in Central and Eastern Europe), and the Government--
being ever cognizant that China remains a very poor country by international
standards, and one still _nly marginally equipped with the institutional
infrastructure needed to guide a market-based economy--opted to continue to
test new reforms in a more controlled loca. environment before extending tiese
nationwide. In view of the strong measures needed during the 1988-90 economic
crisis (and its contractionary influence on all segments of the economy), this
cautious approach was undoubtedly a wise one. Otherwise, had experimental
principles been applied nationwide from the start, and lacking the capability
for full regulation by indirect means of money, credit, savings, investment,
public finance, foreign accounts and the urban wage bill, a prior and full
liberalization of the rural economy could have caused the general economic
crisis to spin out of control. As a result of this experience, a better
appreciation emerged of the critical relationship in a transforming socialist
economy, between the pace of rural liberalization and the state of development
of macroeconomic institutions. It is a relationship determined not only by
manifestations of political will (or its absence) on the macropolicy side, but
also by the basic capability of new economic institutions to perform as
intended.
viii.     Reform Components.  During the course of implementing the regional
Grain Systems reform programs (RRPs) in 1988 and 1989, it became apparent that
grain system reforms are not as risky as was previously supposed in China,
both in terms of leading to potential urban unrest or contributing to consumer
price inflation. Experience with these RRPs also highlighted the importance
of advanced publicity about the program's potential impact and of appropriate
training for those involved in its implementation. These lessons were not
lost when the Government announced its recent nationwide reforms to grain
pricing and marketing arrangements.
ix.       Lessons from the Land Management System reform are less encouraging.
There is a realization that reliance on untested market mechanisms probably
cannot quickly produce the overdue consolidation of holdings needed in the
labor deficit provinces, where there has been a major outflow of labor from
agriculture, which also has vitiated some of the enthusiasm for market-based
mechanisms. There is also remains a need for clear objectives in this policy
area. The RRPs in the labor-deficit areas, which aimed to foster & rapid
consolidation of land through administrative means, were flawed in some
respects because of a continuing need to service the state's grain procurement
quotas, which led uniformly in these RRPs to an otherwise unwarranted
"scaling-up" of farm size in order to foster mechanization, though it was
recognized that permanent subsidies may be required to sustain the mechaniza-
tion programs.
x.        The Rural Industrialization and Rural Financial Market reforms were
designed to support policy and institutional reforms already well underway at
the national level. These also are policy areas that proved particularly
vulnerable to the contractionary effects of economic austerity in 1989 and



- vi 
1990, and which--because full control over experimental policy-making was
never released to the authorities responsible for implementing the RRPs for
these reforms--meant that these reform programs never enjoyed full latitude to
really test experimental designs. There were also design problems at the
experimental level. For example, in the Fuyang, Anhui RRP for rural indus-
trial enterprise reform, many discrete components were incorporated into the
experimental program, which proved difficult to coordinate and nearly impossi-
ble to monitor. For the Guanghan, Sichuan RRP for reform of formal sector
intermediaries, the inability of project entities to coordinate closely with
the PBC's headquarters and regional offices denied sufficient control over
"external" influences that ultimately frustrated the intent of the regional
reform. Experimentation with this kind of component perhaps could have been
better organized through financial sector channels, and not by the "real sec-
tor" experts who were assigned to the State Council's lead agency for the
RSAL.
xi.       Sustainability.  The remarkable resurgence of the second-phase pro-
gram (and its RSAL supported components) in late 1990 and 1991 suggests that
the drive for reform is well-entrenchec in China's rural economy, and thus
gives reason for optimism concerning the sustainability of the second-phase
program, once it can be tested and fully implemented.
xii.      Loan Format.  The absence of tranching in the RSAL's format did not
materially influence the progress of reforms under the RSAL. Indeed, for
cultural and other reasons, the use of an untranched loan may have hastened a
reacceleration of the second phase program in late 1990. However, the deci-
sion to exclude provisions for technical assistance and training from the
RSAL's format may have been a mistake.
xiii.     Lessons From Supervision.  The RSAL components were comprehensive,
and necessarily so. But because of the broad and geographically dispersed
experimental net which had to be cast, the RSAL program proved to be expen-
sive and difficult to supervise. As a result, staff reliance on fair and
accurate reporting by the Government was perhaps more important in trying to
discern progress and difficulties encountered than it might otherwise be with
more traditional SECALs.
xiv.      Such reporting proved fully up to staff expectations and require-
ments, however, this approach to supervision may contain its own limitations.
The Chinese economy has been described as being cellular in previous Bank
reports, and staff may have been slow to appreciate the actual importance
being assigned to the cooperative marketing RRPs by China's central authori-
ties, as potential vehicles for cutting across administrative and subsectoral
boundaries. A more intensive effort may have helped the central coordinating
units to head off problems which have developed in these RRPs.
Role of the Bank
xv.       The Bank's involvement in the start-up period of the second phase
program contributed substantially to the design of the underlying experiments,
and helped to focus the Government's attention on the policy, institutional
and financial requisites of the program and attendant risks. During the
supervision period, the Bank was instrumental in the Government's decision to
preserve central coordination arrangements for the RRPs when it decided, on



- vii -
December 25, 1990, to reassign Lead Agency units to other Government agencies.
Also, while the RSAL was being implemented, the Bank initiated its "Agricul-
tural Transformation" study (Report No. 8652-CHA) which focused on reform in
China's grain sector. After the report was discussed with the Chinese Govern-
ment, staff received several indications that the report's conclusions and
recommendations may have tipped the balance in favor of grain sector reform,
including the consumer price increases announced May 1, 1991 and the decision
to proceed with the Ministry of Cornmerce'9 wholesale grain market program.
xvi.      While it is too early to assess the s"'   s of the RSAL progranm,
current indications dre that the reforms in the    .m of agricultural pricing
and marketing will be pursued aggressively and completed within the current
Plan period. Simnilarly, the rural industrialization components are being
rehabilitated, and authorization has been given for broader experimentation in
order to promote more flexible forms of company organization and capitaliza-
tion.
xvii.     On balance, the Bank's decision to approve the RSAL appears to have
been justified by the progress made in 1988 and the first half of 1989, and
the renewed emphasis on rural reform that began in 1990. It is thus the view
of staff that a repeater RSAL should be kept in the offing, which could be
formalized once the Bank has been fully satisfied that sufficient progress is
being made to carry out the remaining unfulfilled 'conditionalities" in the
RSAL loan and credit agreements.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2967-CHA and Credit 1932-CHA)
PART 1: REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. MIS PARTICULARS
Name of Operation:           Rural Sector A3iusfment Loan (RSAL)
Loan/Credit No.:             Ln. Z967-CHA: Cr. 1932-CHA
RVP Unit:                    ASI
Country:                     People's Republic of China
Sector:                      Agriculture
II. BACKGROUND
Introduction
2.1       Approved on June 23, 1988, and grounded in the success of rural
decollectivization in the first half of the 1980s, the RSAL was designed to
help the Government of China to articulate a rural policy framework for the
country which would deepen the rural reform program at the national level, and
support the implementation, coordination and evaluation of regional reform
experiments in several key policy areas (i.e., liberalization of grain market-
ing, rural land system reform, the systematization of rural industrial poli-
cies, and reform in rural financial markets). It was intended and anticipated
th.at the results of this experimentation would be gradually assimilated by
other regional and local administrative units in China, and that key features
os the more successful experiments would be recast and announced as national
policy.
2.2       Given the complexity of the reform program supported by the RSAL,
the need by the Government of China in 1988 to adopt strong measures to stabi-
lize the economy and bring inflation under control, and a hiatus in implemen-
tation which occurred following the Tiananmen events, it is too early to ren-
der definitive judgment on the success of the RSAL program. However, the
stabilization program has been largely effective, and an intense debate within
the senior leadership appears to have been closed in favor of continued rural
reform. It also appears in mid-1991 that momentum may have been regained for
implementing the essential elements of the RSAL program at the national lev-



- 2 -
els, while at the experimental level, authorization and finance were given to
move the several experiments into their all-important next stage.l/
Macroeconomic Developments
2.3       China achieved respectable growth rates during the prereform era but
the economic gains came at a very high cost in terms of investment, labor and
energy input. The principal goal of the reform program, initiated in late
1978, has been to improve on past growth performance, and to do so largely
through an increase in efficiency.
2.4       The reform strat?gy that evolved in the 1980s, derived on the basis
of need but grounded in pragmatism, policy experimentation, and recognition of
regional differences, has had a number of strands of which the following stand
out:2/
(a)  the enconragement of provincial and local autonomy in economic
decision-making, manifested in the 1980s through a systematic devo-
lution of fiscal authority, attempts to establish 'two-tiered" bank-
ing in the financial sector and the encouragement of nonbank (and
nongovernment'al) financial intermediaries, a progressive relaxation
of central planning in favor of market mediation in all but the most
important sectors, the spread of the household production responsi-
bility system (PRS) in agriculture, and promotion of rural indus-
trialization--largely beyond the purview of annual plans and state
ownership. In the process, 1 ?ers of bureaucratic control have been
stripped away;
(b)  an expansion of consumption opportunities as a matter of policy so
as to restore workforce incentives eroded by years of austerity;
(c) technological advance--after years of autarky--abetted by the
encouragement of foreign trade and foreign capital inflow, progres-
sive commercialization, the rising prominence of free markets, and
the adoption of commercial norms to guide and judge the performance
of all but the most strategic enterprises; and
(d)  active measures to encourage economic integration in the Chinese
economy, at the level of regulation and bureaucratic decision-making
as well Rs across regions and sectors. Except for the trade in a
few heavy industrial items and bulk commodities from agriculture,
the country in the prereform period was divided into a number of
1/  In parallel, several of the experiments have been diffused horizontally
to jurisdictions outside of the RSAL program, or have been adopted and
applied throughout their jurisdictions by prefectural and provincial
governments responsible for the original experiment.
2/   cf. Report No. 7483-CHA, "China% Macroeconomic Stability and Growth
Under Decentralized Socialism (FY89 CEM)" for a detailed review of
Chinese economic performance and constraints during the 1980s.



- 3 -
subeconomies as a result of regional self-sufficiency policies, each
more or less independent.3/
By encouraging enterprises in industry and agriculture to forge horizontal
links across sectors and regions, Chinese reformers are attempting to break
down the severe compartmentalization that was one of the legacies of Mao
Zedong's preference for regional and local autarky and the hierarchical struc-
ture of supervising ministries.
2.5       Between 1979-88, China averaged a growth rate of more than 10 per-
cent per annum, more than doubling per capita income and achieving (between
1980-88) an almost threefold expansion in foreign trade. Agriculture
responded immediately to the measures introduced in the late 1970s and pro-
vided a pow..rful impetus to growth during the first half of the 1980s.4/
Industrial reforms, placed into effect in 1983/84, gave an equally strong
stimulus and during 1985-88 most of the growth impulse came from the vigorous
expansion of industry. Because of the changed relative prices for agricul-
tural products, the powerful incentives provided in the PRS, and the emergence
of dynamic off-farm rural employment opportunities, the rural four-fifths of
the populace participated fully in this new prosperity. Unprecedented rates of
sustained GDP growth have been matched by a substantial increase in domestic
savings that have helped to maintain the resource balance, and except for the
period 1985/86, minimized China's reliance on foreign capital to meet the
enterprise sector's enormous appetite for investment.
2.6       From the very start of the reform program, it was apparent that
decollectivizing a planned economy subject to chronic shortages was beset with
risk. When the Chinese began their grand national experiment, strong latent
demand pressures from enterprises as well as consumers lay beneath the sur-
face. The recent and still imprecise literature on socialist economic transi-
tion and approaches to manage the monetary overhang had not been researched
and recorded, nor would these topics be addressed for another ten years except
in Chinese journals. The then pervasive use of accounting prices in China
gave little indication of "true" opportunities to improve efficiency, and a
pragmatic approach of experimentation and learning-by-doing was adopted. As
we now realize, the dangers of macroeconomic stability are particularly seri-
ous if an economy is operated near its maximum potential, a course which the
leadership wisely chose to follow in the 1980s given the low per capita
incomes in this still very poor economy. And during the first five years of
reform, a combination of factors helped keep macroeconomic disequilibria in
check. Reforms were concentrated in the rural sector, and food supplies and
3/   This cellular pattern of development involved a considerable sacrifice in
efficiency: industrial location was not guided by comparative advantage,
scale economies remained unexploited, the push for agricultural self-
sufficiency inhibited regional specialization, the financial sector was
directed by regional credit plans with little incentive to transfer
resources or mobilize deposits across sectoral and regional boundaries,
and the potential for China's vast internal market to generate trade and
competition was neglected.
4/   cf. Report 8652-CHA:  "Managing An Agricultural Transformation," for a
review of the sector's performance in the 1980s.



- 4 -
rural industrial production expanded at a brisk pace, which increased produc-
tivity and welfare, dampened price increases and restrained the inflationary
potential inherent in a concurrent remonetization of the economy. Consumption
provided the fuel for growth and mostly paid for itself through improved
incentives for productivity increases.
2.7       When the focus of reform shifted to state enterprises in the mid-
1980s, the situation changed considerably. Enterprises were given more inde-
pendence and the option of participating in free market trading, but they were
not systematically subjected to the rigors of market discipline and account-
ability. Moreover, the unreformed pricing system for the centrally positioned
enterprises in heavy industry, mining, energy and the transportation sectors
interfered with socially efficient investment decisions.5/ Second, decentral-
ization and fiscal devolution encouraged the provinces to aggressively pursue
their own industrial ambitions, which resulted in much duplication, the estab-
lishment of regional monopolies and the waste of capital.
2.8       Growth accelerated to over 11 percent per annum between 1984 and
1988, pushing the economy to the limits of its productive capacity. Infla-
tionary pressure accrued and by 1987 had broken into the open. The prices of
food and other wage goods both increased and began to fluctuate in 1987/88, a
phenomenon which China's influential urban population had not encountered
since 1949. Urban dwellers earning only partially indexed incomes began agi-
tating for higher wages and bonuses. Farmers began to object to the rising
cost of manufactured farm inputs. During 1988, enterprise wages increased by
more than 25 percent in nominal terms, bonuses at an even faster rate, which
introduced a wage push element into the inflationary pressure. The budgetary
deficit increased to about 2.5 percent of GDP in 1988 and the retail price
index moved upwards in 1987 by 9.2 percent, which accelerated in 1988 to
24.9 percent.
2.9       Though insignificant when compared with the trends in other coun-
tries that the world became accustomed to in the 1980s, the Chinese leadership
recognized that the economy might be particularly susceptible to destabiliza-
tion if deficit financing and the pace of inflation were allowed to acceler-
ate, since its macroeconomic control mechanisms remained largely those of
central planning: spigots which could be adjusted when required, but which
had not yet been transformed into self-regulating mechanisms. It was against
this background of partial reforms that matters came to a head in 1988. When,
under these overheated conditions, the authorities announced in June 1988,
plans for a major price reform to be implemented in 1989, inflation worsened
when consumers switched from financial into real assets. Prices that had been
rising at annualized rates of 10-15 percent in early 1988 soared to rates
approaching 80 percent. Faced with this crisis, a mild consumer panic in
August 1988 focused the leadership's attention on the need to adopt strong
policies to regain control over China's macroeconomic aggregates. The Govern-
ment postponed further price liberalization and, in late 1988, adopted a
series of stabilization measures.
2.10      The "Program of Economic Rectification".  Of necessity, emphasis was
on administrative means to restabilize the economy since the institutional
5/   In 1988, the investment ratio reached almost 39 percent of GDP.



- 5 -
framework for indirect regulation had not yet been fully developed. A strict
program to regain control over inflation, by curtailing enterprise investment
hunger largely through the reimposition of sectoral and regional priorities,
by placing constraints on enterprise bonuses and salary increases, through
reimposition of annual credit plans in order to control the expansion of mone-
tary aggregates and channel credit into perceived priority sectors, by some
use of indirect controls--particularly of interest rate policy, by stricter
enforcement of price controls on commodities subject to central allocation and
measures to contain the growth and fluctuation of prices subject to "guidance"
pricing, a recentralization of foreign trade in key commodities and the use of
import restrictions on nonessential commodities, and actions to simplify the
tax system and increase its buoyancy.6/
2.11      These measures quickly curtailed inflation, from an annualized rate
of 26 percent in December 1988 to less than 1 percent in the first quarter of
1990. They have also checked the growth of labor earnings in the formal sec-
tor, and for the time being at least, alleviated cost push pressures. In
addition, these steps plus curbs on imports have reversed a growing imbalance
in China's foreign trade accounts. Preliminary results for 1990 and the first
five months of 1991 suggest that though structural problems remain, glowth has
resumed, inflation has been held in check, investment and credit controls have
been relaxed, the prices of some public services and basic goods (most
recently, the prices of grains) have been increased, the pace of exporting has
resumed, import curbs are being dismantled, foreign investment and tourism
have picked up considerably, and progress is being made in negotiations
between the state and the provinces to simplify tax administration and
increase collections.
III. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1       It is in this setting of sustained growth at high rates during the
1980s and the overheating of China's economy in 1987/88 that the RSAL was
formulated. The loan was the first (and to date, the only) adjustment opera-
tion the Bank has financed in China, and it aimed to service critical foreign
exchange expenditures and reinforce the most successful part of the reform
program, which was--and unquestionably remains--China's rural sector reforms.
3.2       Formulated in late 1987 and early 1988, the RSAL was designed to
increase rural productivity and promote policy and institutional experimenta-
tion in critical segments of rural economy that had been recognized as needed
for promoting productivity and increasing the effectiveness of market regula-
tion and fiscal intervention. The main objectives of the RSAL were to foster
agricultural development and specialization; increase efficiency; encourage
nonfarw. rural enterprises--both industrial and commercial; expand rural
exports; provide productive off-farm employment opportunities; reduce agricul-
tural and urban food subsidies; improve agricultural tax buoyancy; and improve
6/ The austerity program is reviewed in Report No. 8440-CHA: "China:
Between Plan and Market" (FY90 CEM).



-6-
the range and efficiency of rural financial services.7/ The program sup-
ported by the RSAL aimed to deepen policy reforms in the areas of (a) agricul-
tural price liberalization and trade reform, (b) market development and
integration, (c) reform of the rural land management system, (d) rural indus-
trialization and commercial activities, (2) marketing and seltice *ctivities
in the less commercialized areas of China's rural economy, (f) state-level
support for investment in agriculture, and (g) rural financial market reforms.
The program also had a fiscal component--to reduce subsidies on urban food
consumption and improve the buoyancy of agricultural taxation. The policy
package featured intended reforms at two levels: legal enactmeats and regula-
tory measures to extend reforms that had already been tested successfully at
the regional level and were ready for implementation nationwide, and tailored
regional reform experiments to devise principles for subsequent national poli-
cies.
3.3       The RSAL was a single tranche operation, consisting of a Bank Loan
in the amount of $200 million and an IDA Credit of SDR 72.2 million ($100
million equivalent). It was offered in the expectation that repeater loans
would fol'aw to deepen the initiatives undertaken in the RSAL and also extend
the reform program to new policy areas (e.g., input supply). Scheduled to
close on June 30, 1990, two years after Board approval, the proceeds of the
7/   The findings of several Bank economic and sector reports contributed to
the design of the RSAL, notably:
China-LongTerm Development Issues and Options (1985--Johns Hopkins
Press) and Annex 2--"Agriculture to the Year 2000';
Report No. 6445-CHA: "China--Finance and Investment' (1987);
Report No. 6589-CHA: "China--Livestock Sector Study' ;1987);
Report No. 6680-CHA: "China--External Trade and Capital
Reform" (1987)
and others whose preparation was well advanced when the RSAL was formu-
lated, including:
Report No. 7267-CHA:  "China--Rural Industry:  Overview, Issues and
Prospects' (1989);
Report No. 7483-CHA: "China--Macroeconomic Stability and Industrial
Growth Under Decentralized Socialism" (FY89 CEM);
Report No. 7605-CHA: "China--Revenue Mobilization and Tax Policy"
(1989); and
Report No. 8415-CHA: "China--Financial Sector Review" (1990).
Reference was also made to a large number of published studies, journal
articles and academic papers that dealt with various aspects of China's
rural reforms, a selection of which is referred to in the two supplemen-
tary volumes to the RSAL President's Report.



-7-
RSAL loan and credit were earmarked for the importation of agricultural inputs
and machinery. The counterpart proceeds were allocated, inter alia, to meet
the incremental financial requirements of several regional reform programs
(RRPs) that were accelerated within the RSAL umbrella, and to develop monitor-
ing systems in the RRPs.
3.4       Features of the Program.  Program specifics included, in the realm
of markets and marketing, actions to (a) reduce local government fees on
shipments traversing administrative boundaries and simplifying their adminis-
tration, (1)) eliminate local licensing requirements and other "nontariff"
barriers to internal trade, and (c) develop marketing infrastructure and
Institutions through the promotion of marketing cooperatives and other commer-
cial forms in areas not adequately served by existing organizations. To
deepen the agricultural pricing reforms of the early 1980s, the Government
aimed to (a) further reduce the share of agricultural procurement carried out
at fixed Plan prices (which mainly involved grains), (b) transform over a
period of two to three years the "two-tiered' pricing system for grains into a
system of market determined prices by eliminating the lower administered tier,
and (c) raise farm input prices for chemical inputs and energy. While the
associated retail and producer subsidies were being reduced, measures to aug-
ment agricultural taxation would be introduced.8/
3.5       With the intention of creating an institutional and legal foundation
to reduce the extreme fragmentation of agricultural lands that occurred when
the PRS was introduced, the rural land system reforms supported by the RSAL
were designed to (a) reinforce the capabilities of China's State Land Adminis-
tration (SLA) by upgrading the land recording system and expanding the scope
of cadastral survey work in the rural areas, and (b) develop modalities for
converting the then imprecise contractual relationship between the land-owning
township or village and the farmer into a long-term leasehold relationship in
which use-rights are inheritable, transferable and mortgageable.9/ Support
for rural industrialization was subsumed in policies to promote increased
efficiency in the TVEs and their continued expansion, and in the articulation
of industrial policies for nonstate-owned enterprises. Within the RSAL
umbrella. these policies encompassed (a) the enunciation at the national level
of "companies law" for private firms and collectively owned TVEs, (b) acceler-
ated implementation of the "Spark" program, a technical assistance and small
industry extension program, to upgrade the capabilities of the small enter-
prise sector, and (c) reforms to trade policy, the encouragement of interna-
tional joint ventures, and focused support to enhance exporting by TVEs
located in China's coastal zones. The TVE component also had a financial
sector dimension, designed to expand financial services to the TVEs, introduce
8/   The grain system reforms are discussed further in Working Paper No. 1:
"Grain System Reforms," which was prepared by the PCR mission and placed
in file.
9/   A detailed review of China's rural land policies is presented in Working
Paper No. 2: "Land Management System Reforms," which was prepared by the
PCR mission and placed in file.



- 8 -
liquidation regulations and increase the mobility of fixed (and financial)
assets among the TVEs.10/
3.6       Several important initiatives to improve the flexibility of rural
financial markets were also underway in China. In parallel, plans were fairly
advanced to reform the State's rural investment system, also grounded in
financial intermediation. Components were thus added to the policy package in
these areas which involved both the organized sector and the rapidly growing
informal sector, aiming to broaden formal sector intervention through (a) sup-
port for the establishment of a centrally positioned but financially autono-
mous investment corporation (para. 4.14) to offer participation, syndicate and
make loans to agribusiness enterprises and formal and informal agricultural
financial intermediaries, and to administer the counterpart proceeds from the
RSAL in order to support joinit ventures and meet the "transitional costs" of
adjustment in selected experimental program areas, (b) to strengthen and gen-
eralize important local developments involving the state-owned banks, which
relaxed restrictions on deposit taking, generally broadened t1le range of rural
financial services offered by the state-owned banks, and had readied for
implementation a framework for an interbank market and a regional clearing
center, and (c) in the realm of informal financial services, both a study of
regulatory requirements for the burgeoning farmers' "cooperative foundations"
(mutual savings and credit associations) and of the informal savings and loan
associations that were being organized mainly to service TVEs' financial
requirements in China's rural areas.
3.7       Underlying all of these initiatives was a program of legal and regu-
latory enactments--both within the RRPs and in some instances at the level of
the State--to establish the needed authority for commercial enterprises to
evolve under various ownership forms, for voluntary cooperatives to be orga-
nized, and for the creation of a framework to regulate their commercial activ-
ities, contractual agreements, liabilities and liquidation.
3.8       The RRPs.  Although the Government of China indicated in its policy
letter Il/ that some important national policy reforms would be implemented
in 1988, 1989 and 1990, it was anticipated at appraisal that the bulk of the
Government's programs to deepen the rural reforms would be experimented with
firstly in the context of the several RRPs supported by the RSAL. Regional
experimentation has been the pattern in China for testing major policy reforms
in a semi-controlled environment before extending the more successful ones
nationwide. These usually are formulated through provincial and local initia-
tive, though the more far-reaching experimental reforms receive State Council
endorsement, which authorizes the temporary suspension of existing rules,
regulations and policies that might otherwise inhibit successful experimenta-
tion, permits the State to assume coordination responsibilities, and commits
the State to furnish expert advice, technical assistance and "transitional"
financing to the responsible local agencies.
10/  An overview of China's rural industrialization policies and the experi-
mental reform programs is provided in Working Paper No. 3: "Rural Indus-
trialization Component," which was prepared by the PCR mission and placed
in file.
11/  Annex 4 of Report No. P-4801-CHA:  the Memorandum of the RSAL.



-9-
3.9       At the time of project appraisal, State Council endorsement had been
given to 11 RRPs in the realm of rural policy reform. Coordination and tech-
nical advice were effectuated through its rural policy arm, known as the
"Research Center for Rural Development" (RCRD), and a network of subordinate
institutions at the provincial and county levels. Spread throughout the east-
ern half of China (where 80 percent of the rural population resides) the RRPs
featured experimentation ir. the following areas:
(a) grain pricing, marketing and agricultural tax reform [one each in a
grain-surplus zone (Xinxiang, Henan) and a grain-deficit zone
(Yulin, Guangxi)). These "grain system" RRPs aimed to:
(i) liberalize grain procurement and sales pricing, reduce rationed
grain allotments, and raise input prices to market levels;
(ii) reduce subsidization, eliminate implicit agricultural taxation,
and improve the yields of direct agricultural taxation; and
(iii) devise feasible arrangements and procedures for managing the
transition to more liberalized grain pricing, and for financing
the associated costs of adjustment.
(b)  rural land management system reform [one in a poor labor-surplus
area (Meitan, Guizhou) and three in high-income labor-deficit areas
(Southern Jiangsu Province; Nanhai, Guangdong and Shunyi County,
Beijing)]. In these RRPs, two entirely different approaches are
being tested to reduce the extreme fragmentation of agricultural
land in China and encourage agricultural investment, through:
(i) decentralized means (Meitan, Guizhou), by the establishment of
working markets in rural land use rights, improved arrangements
for land recording and administration, and the creation of a
land bank to offer nmortgages secured in the rights being trans-
ferred, and
(ii) by largely administrative means (in the high-income, labor-
deficit areas) to consolidate farmlands, scale up farm size (in
pursuit of perceived "scale economies" in grain production),
and promote agricultural mechanization through subsidized
credit and local budgetary expenditures.
(c)  TVE development and reform [two RRPs featuring primarily private
ownership (Wenzhou City, Zhejiang and Shangzhi, Heilongjiang) and
one tailored mainly to collective ownership: viz. nonstate, owner-
ship (Fuyang, Anhui)]. These RRPs were designed to improve the
TVEs' business environment and efficiency of operations and capital-
ization, through the testing of experimental reforms to:
(i) define enterprise property rights and forms of ownership,
(ii) establish liquidation procedures,
(iii) promote investment in selected subsectors and in industrial
infrastructure,



- 10 -
(iv) systematize the provision of technical assistance to TVEs,
(v)  test new ways to capitalize TVEs (e.g., shareholding systems,
loans from nonbank intermediaries),
(vi) establish labor exchanges, and
(vii) curtail unwarranted local government interference and simplify
TVE administration and regulation.
(d)  policy and institution-building support for rural cooperatives [one
each for special-purpose marketing cooperatives (Shangzhi,
Heilongjiang) and multipurpose cooperatives (Yutian, Hebei)), and
(e)  policy and institutional suppott for rural financial markets [one
each for the formal sector (Guanghan, Sichuan) and the informal
sector (Fuyang, Anhui)]. In the formal sector, the Guanghan RRP was
designed to:
(i)  promote competition among the state-owned banks by removing
geographical restrictions on deposit taking and subsectoral
restrictions on lending,
(ii) improve the efficiency and accountability of the state banks
through improvements in management, organization, personnel
management and training, and financial planning, accounting and
control procedures, and
(iii) reduce the "overhead" costs of intermediation by establishing
interbank markets and clearing houses.
The "informal" sector component of the Fuyang, Anhui RRP aimed to
create and strengthen savings and loan type associations to mobilize
rural deposits and channel these to TVEs.
It was understood at appraisal that additional RRPs might be brought under the
wing of the State Council as the program was implemented. It was also agreed
during loan negotiations that monitoring systems would be set for the RRPs.
3.10      Procurement and Disbursement.  The RSAL's procurement arrangements
involved use of ICB and international shopping procedures. It was expected
that procurement under ICB procedures would amount to $125-150 million. Dis-
bursements would be made against a positive list of items to be procured.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
The Rural Reform Program: National Policies
4.1       In the RSAL Policy Letter (paras. 15-18), the Government of China
indicated that "the major objective ...for food price reform is to expand the
scope of market pricing." To these ends, the Government undertook at the
level of national policy to (a) gradually reduce the volume of procurement of



- 11 -
farm products at official prices, increase those producer prices which remain
subject to administrative controls and increase the proportion of sales
through the ma-ket; and (b) reduce government subsidies on food sales,121
with subsidies in the future to be granted only to low-income groups, employ-
ees on fixed incomes, and pensioners.
4.2       Performance has been mixed.  The quota production prices for grains
and vegetable oils were increased nominally by an average of 18 percent in
late 1988. Owing to record harvests in 1989 and 1990, however, the Government
was forced to retain the volume of official procurement at the pre-RSAL level
of 50 million tons, mainly as a producer price support measure. On the sales
side, the Government was forced in late 1988 to again postpone grain price
reform until control over inflationary pressures in the economy had been
regained.13/ Consumer food subsidies continued to increase.
4.3       By 1990, however, the worst of the inflation had passed, and the
Chinese Government began to implement grain marketing and price reform:  first
by establishing national- and provincial-level wholesale markets for the main
grains--to introduce market mediation in this hitherto wholly administered
segment of agricultural marketing in China--which initially is intended to
operate alongside the state-owned grain distribution system during its forma-
tive years while necessary investments are being made, and within 3-5 years,
will fully supplant the management of interprovinciai grain transfers except-
ing transfers to poor, backwards locales. To provide fiscal leeway for pro-
ducer price increases and the ultimate phasing out of administered pricing in
the grain sector, the Government announced on April 29, 1991 substantial urban
price increases for table grains and animal feedstuffs, ranging from 50 per-
cent to more than 200 percent by commodity and grade, equally significant
increases in the prices of rationed edible oil supplies--prices which had not
been increased since the mid-1960s--and a parallel decrease in urban per
capita allotments under China's grain ration program. The Government also
announced that high-quality table grains would no longer be distributed
12/ Accounting for at least 30 percent of the State budget, grain distribu-
tion and sales subsidies are the main source of agricultural subsidiza-
tion in China, unlike the situation in former CMEA economies where sub-
stantial producer subsidization also exists.
13/ Though precipitated by a consumer panic in August 1988, this announcement
was an inevitable consequence of the China's need in 1988 to curtail
investment hunger in the enterprise sector, head off the phenomenon of
"enterprise pass-through" of major price increases in wage goods, needed
to dampen inflationary expectations using the available tools and levers.
(These tools, in 1988, were largely administrative ones except in the
rural economy, where market mediated development had already made strong
inroads into central planning.)



- 12 -
through the ration shops at planned prices, but henceforth would be sold at
market prices.14/
4.4       Reform of the rural land management system has proceeded less dra-
matically. In the Policy Letter (paras. 19-22), the Government indicated that
"A major element of future reform will be to establish a land system that will
strengthen the individual farmer's right to use the land.... (and) encourage
the transfer of land use rights to encourage production efficiency." Aiming
to implement provisions of China's Constitutional Amendment of April 12, 1988
(which stipulated that "The right of land use can be transferred in accordance
with the law'), the Government undertook at the level of national policy to
"formulate (by the end of 1988) implementing policies and regulations required
to establish markets in land use rights, establish the mortgageability in of
land use rights, and guide the resolution of land use disputes." To improve
China's land administration system and dampen the pace of land conversion from
agricultural to nonagricultural use, the Government indicated that its newly
established State Land Administration would 'initiate a national land regis-
tration system to be implemented by land administration bureaus at various
levels (of civil administration)." Support for these actions would be pro-
vided through the formulation by 1990 of decrees and regulations to sanction
the SLA's land registration and conversion policies.
4.5       National laws to establish markets in rural land use rights were
drafted in 1989, though these remain before the State Council and Standing
Committees of the Mlational and Provincial People's Congresses, and the momen-
tum for their enactment appears to have dissipated. There is a rationale on
the Government's side, though not a convincing one. Lacking any semblance of
organized rural land markets in China beyond 15/ the purview of the RSAL
experimentation, the Government is fearful of the kinds of speculation that
may emerge were formal permissions given for subleasing and the contracting of
land use rights among China's farmers. Another dimension involves the assig-
nation of land-contract approval authority among the various levels and
departments in local government, and thus the right to assess and collect land
taxes and fees (referred to in China as the need to "clarify ownership") under
the country's decentralized fiscal system. Third, there is justifiable con-
cern that sound recording and administrative arrangements have yet to be
articulated for agricultural lands by the SLA, whose operations thus far only
encompass urban lands and nonagricultural rural lands. As a result of these
factors, regional and local land administrators and tribunals possess neither
the required package of detailed regulations, land valuation and recording
procedures, nor precedents in settling land related disputes which will
14/ These are major reforms. Ration sales (which currently govern more than
half of total grain sales in China, and are mainly available to China's
urban residents) have been conducted at prices that have not been
adjusted upwards for more than two decades. Prior to the increase, these
prices amounted to only 20 percent of the equivalent international price
levels, and also were considerably below the still paltry levels that
have been set for administered producer prices.
15/ Informal, short-term transfers occur, but these are neither regularized
nor are they systematic.



- 13 -
invariably arise once a more flexible system of voluntary land transfers is
adopted.
4.6       On the other hand, the SLA has moved rapidly to bring land conver-
sion under control. The above-mentioned regulations were enunciated in 1989,
one year ahead of schedule, which established administrative procedures and a
schedule of fees for agricultural land conversion. Following an intensive
publicity campaign, enforcement of the new land conversion procedures in 1989
and 1990 has slowed considerably the annual decline in cultivated area.
4.7       During the first decade of reform, relaxation of earlier restric-
tions on rural industrialization unleashed the initiative of local communities
and individuals and raised rural nonstate firms' share of total industrial
output from 8.7 percent to 25.7 percent, in the process absorbing up to 70
million additional workers displaced from farming into industrial or service
occupations. But the legal framework for the operation of both collective and
private firms remained ill-defined, and their access to official support ser-
vices (finance, information, training) was restricted, frequently resulting in
low technical standards: these dual weaknesses constituted the focus of the
relevant RSAL program at the national level.
4.8       Significant progress was achieved in clarifying the legal status of
private firms with regulations enacted in June 25, 1988, which abolished an
earlier employment ceiling of eight workers, and also authorized creation of
limited liability companies with up to 30 shareholders (though with tight
restrictions on the transfer of shares). Regulations on rural collective
firms, adopted in June 1990, promoted the separation of management from owner-
ship through contractual arrangements, but also envisaged a strengthened role
for higher levels of government in providing guidance and supervision to such
enterprises (they remain, however, outside the state plan). By defining own-
ership rights as residing in the local community as a whole, the collective
regulations could not offer a solid legal basis for recognizing the multiple
ownership claims which frequently exist on a de facto basis. Local experi-
ments with more flexible models of joint-stock companies were undertaken
within the RRPs, and directives dating from May 1991 authorize such experimen-
tation in other regions. There remain, however, anomalies in the tax treat-
ment and administrative supervision procedures for firms in different owner-
ship categories, and in the absence of a strong overall judicial framework for
impartial enforcement of business law the operating climate, especially for
private enterprises, still owes much to local discretion.
4.9       Overall progress in promoting exports from rural industries has been
impressive: these rose from $1.2 billion in 1985 (4.4 percent of total
exports) to $8.0 billion in 1988 (16.9 percent of the total), and continued to
grow during the RSAL implementation period to an estimated $13.0 billion in
1990 (24.4 percent of all exports). Much of this growth could be attributed
to broader trade reforms which allowed domestic firms to retain part of their
receipts in hard currency and, from 1988, to trade foreign exchange in a par-
allel market--though November 1988 reforms targeted at the larger rural
exporters, mostly concentrated in coastal provinces, sought to ease their
access to export credits and imported inputs and technology. Both the private
and collective enterprise regulations authorized rural firms to enter into
international cooperative ventures. The period also saw continuation of offi-
cially sponsored "Spark" programs to diffuse improved technology and staff



- 14 -
training to rural firms (though since 1986 much of the responsibility for
funding and administration had been decentralized to lower levels of govern-
ment).
4.10      More broadly, however, the 18 months from late 1988 to early 1990
witnessed a more difficult national policy climate for rural enterprises. The
RSAL program's intention to improve their access to credit through established
banking channels came into conflict with a credit squeeze which initially
singled out nonstate firms for particularly tight restrictions, and--at its
height in late 1989--caused extensive dislocation. Simultaneously, formation
of new private lending institutions in rural areas was placed on hold, in part
reflecting concerns over potential financial instability: it is not, however,
clear that the resulting hiatus has been fully exploited to strengthen the
prudential regulatory framework for such lending. In this climate, RSAL's
intention to introduce formal bankruptcy regulations for nonstate firms, at
least on a trial basis, was not accomplished, though concerns raised by the
banking sector, which has to date been allowed limited scope formally to write
off bad debts, would likely have made these measures controversial at any
time.
4.11      Following the period of most intense austerity, which was accompa-
nied by central directives encouraging administrative sanctions against rural
firms to curb inefficiency, unfair competition with state firms and pollution,
the overall policy climate began to ease markedly from about March 1990.
Subsequent official statements have shown a more balanced appreciation of the
sector's contribution to the national economy, private entrepreneurs have been
publicly assured of a stable policy climate and the full application of the
1988 regulations, growth has resumed (rebounding, in the case of rural collec-
tive industries. from stagnation in late 1989 to a 24 percent real incre&3e
during 1990), and signs of greater openness to reform experiments (e.g., with
shareholding firms) are again beginning to be witnessed.
4.12      There remain, however, several questions of rural industrial and
commercial policy that have yet to be addressed in national enactments, in
spite of commitments to do so within the RSAL's policy framework. These
include the sanction of ownership and enterprise management forms in a broader
"companies law' for all forms of nongovernmental enterprise; firm and consis-
tent rules to govern entry and egress in the sectors where TVEs have evolved,
and enterprise liquidation procedures; rules to govern contracts, liability
and contingent obligations; general rules to govern capitalization and enter-
prise taxation (including the formulation of consistent, transparent account-
ing methodologies); workforce mobilization and employment policies, and--for
the larger enterprises--safety net provisions for their staff and employees;
and the uniform application of creditworthiness procedures by the state-owned
banks and assessment of tax obligations by local bureaus of finance. Though
considerable experimentation has taken place under the provisions of the RSAL
agreements, all of the above will ultimately be needed to establish a stable
business environment for the TVEs.
4.13      The deepening and further liberalization of China's rural financial
markets (RFMs) during the RSAL implementation period also had to be curtailed
under the recent austerity program. However, the contraction of reform has
been more pronounced since 1988 in the formal sector than in informal finan-
cial markets. Under the RSAL, commitments to RFM reform were mostly at the



- 15 -
expertmental level: national-level commitments were confined to the estab-
lishment and initial capitalization of an independent state-owned investment
company, which would operate on commercial terms while stimulating technology
transfer through investments in marketing and agroprocessing, joint ventures
with foreign agribusiness concerns, and the exporting of higher-valued fresh
and processed agricultural commodities. The second was a commitment to study
and formulate procedures and criteria for regulating financial intermediation
in rural China's burgeoning informal sector.
4.14      The charter for the investment corporation, known initially as the
China Agribusiness Trust and Investment Corporation (CATIC), later subsumed
under the State's Agricultural Investment Corporation and renamed the State
Agribusiness Trust and Investment Corporation (SATIC), was approved by the
State Council in late 1987 after its charter and business plan were reviewed
by the Bank. Following a shaky start, the SATIC has made reasonable progress
towards achieving its objectives. As outlined in Part II of this report, the
SATIC has managed to broaden its capitalization; fostered the creation of
seven SATIC "clones" at the provincial and county levels to replicate SATIC
operations and serve as conduits for SATIC loans and participation; provided
technical assistance, guidance and financial support for the formation of
farmers' cooperative credit societies,16/ a relatively new but rapidly spread-
ing development in China's informal financial markets; participated directly
in the establishment of more than 50 processing and marketing enterprises
employing improved technologies; helped to upgrade a considerably larger num-
ber; and became the participating Chinese partner in several joint ventures
formed with Thai, American and other international agribusiness companies.
The SATIC has also served as the principal channel for routing the RSAL's
counterpart proceeds to the experimental program areas, both those within the
purview of the operation as well as other experiments endorsed by the state
and local governments, onlending in the process the equivalent of $100 mil-
lion. It has very rapidly pulled itself together as an effective nonbank
financial intermediary and, from all appearances, is being managed effec-
tively.
4.15      It was not Government's intention that the RSAL would support major
policy reform in rural financial markets. However, in recognition of the
rapid and basically unregulated expansion of trust and investment corporations
and of nongovernmental financial service institutions that was occurring in
rural areas, as well as the deleterious effects which maintenance of geograph-
ical and other restrictions have had on rural lending and deposit taking by
state banks, the RSAL was offered partially in expectation that the Government
would carry out in 1988 the Review of Rural Financial Market Policies referred
to in para. 33 of the Policy Letter. This review was to be followed by the
preparation of guidelines in 1989 for future reform of China's rural financial
system.
4.16      During appraisal of the RSAL, Bank staff understood that the Review
would focus on the capital structure, deposit taking, lending and service
operations of both forma. and informal rural financial institutions; existing
policies, regulation, resource limitations and operating constraints; and
16/ Known in China as "farmers cooperative foundations.' More than 8,000 of
these entities have fc.rmed, spontaneously, since 1988.



- 16 -
options available to govern future relations within the formal system and
between the formal and informal systems to improve the effectiveness, finan-
cial integrity and flexibility of institutions active in China's rural finan-
cial markets. Special topics for the review included (a) an assessment of
government policies towards the financing of rural investments, (b) credit/
lending policies and performance, both global, and specific to the various
kinds of financial institutions, (c) deposit mobilization policies and perfor-
mance, (d) the structure of passive and active interest rates, and the cost of
funds mobilized, and (e) policy and institutional requisites for implementing
a system of land banking.
4.17      The need for the Review was evident even before onset of the eco-
nomic crisis in late 1988: its findings and recommendations were expected to
guide the future evolution of the rural financial system from a highly cen-
tralized adjunct of budget management (though one where the informals were
proliferating largely without benefit of responsible oversight), to a more
indirectly managed system for financial intermediation in rural areas. How-
ever, the study could not be initiated. This in part relates to the reluc-
tance of the People's Bank of China (PBC) to enunciate regulations for the
still comparatively insignificant informal sector before it has been able to
issue regulations for the formal segment, but it also relates to the limited
expertise available in China for carrying out this kind of study. There is no
question that the study is urgently needed. As a remedial measure, the Bank
has programmed a study of rural financial markets in the China/Mongolia
Department's CESW program for FY92, which would likely be carried out with
participation by the PBC, SATIC staff and the Ministry of Agriculture's Exper-
imental Programs Office, assisted by the Ministry of Finance and the Agricul-
tural Bank of China.
Progress With the Reform Experiments
4.18      As with the national reforms, progress with implementing the RRPs
was mixed, with some policy areas being more severely affected than others by
the austerity program and the post-Tiananmen debate. However, all of the RRPs
were subjected to financial and other constraints between late-1988 and early
1990, which generally slowed the pace of implementation. Beginning about mid-
1990, the momentum for reform revived in China, and the RRPs began to imple-
ment their postponed but critical next steps. For the grain system reforms,
these next steps entail a further increase in urban consumer prices 17/ and
further developing the agricultural tax reform to partially offset increased
outlays required when the RRP authorities raised local producer prices to
near-market levels in 1988 and 1989. For the land system experiments, this
involved extending the principles te3ted in the RRPs to neighboring jurisdic-
tions. For the TVE programs, this entails firstly the promulgation of rules
and regulations to establish legal personality more precisely, to govern merg-
ers, bankruptcy or liquidation, to simplify administrative procedures, to
strengthen the technology support system, and to foster interregional labor
contracting. Lastly, in rural financial markets, this entails the spread of
banking system reforms to other jurisdictions within the constraints posed by
17/ Beyond the increases already implemented within the design of the RRP
(i.e., in Yulin, Guangxi), else announced in conjunction with the nation-
wide increase on May 1, 1991.



- 17 -
still stringent administrative regulation of China's financial sector, and the
formulation and application of trial rules to bring the informal sector (i.e.,
farmers' cooperative foundations and the rural savings and loan societies)
under responsible financial ovt-rsight. Independent of the dampening effects
of austerity, however, some experiments are still in the early stages of
implementation, while others.-according to existing designs--are largely fin-
ished, but may have design flaws worthy of additional attention. These show
up most clearly in the land system, rural industrialization and rural finan-
cial market experiments, but also--to a lesser extent--in the grain system
RRPs.
4.19      Among the land system experiments, the Meitan, Guizhou market-based
reform and a new RRP in Pingdu County, Shandong (which received State Council
endorsement subsequent to approval of the RSAL, and was brought within the
RSAL framework following the visit of the first supervision mission in Septem-
ber 1989) deserve continued high priority. Additional state guidance may be
required in Meitan to resolve the confusion surrounding the issue of mortgag-
ing land use rights, where China's first rural Land Finance Corporation, set
up as part of the experimental design, has yet to offer mortgages secured in
land use rights. Rather, it appears to have become another channel for
financing TVEs, albeit a needed and useful one. Other reasons put forth by
Government include a perceived difficulty of evaluating land use rights in the
absence of an operating market, and farmer resistance towards relinquishing
lands in the absence of effective social insurance schemes. Previous Bank
supervisions have noted that synthetic techniques for evaluating land have
long been practiced in Western countries, and this should not present insur-
mountable problems. On the other hand, the lack of effective social insurance
probably represents a major flaw in the Meitan design, and may typify the
kinds of resistance that could be expected were land banking facilities estab-
lished in other parts of rural China. But rather than give up otn the land
banking features of the Meitan experiment, staff continue to believa that the
rural social insurance issue be addressed head-on, by establishing a prototype
provident fund for farmers in Meitan County, similar to that available to
urban residents, then observe any changes in farmer willingness to alienate
their land use rights.18/
4.20      In Pingdu, a redistribution of land use rights by the auction system
has largely been accomplished, and it appears to provide a model for managing
an initial consolidation and redistribution of land within the constraints
still posed by the system of compulsory grain procurement. But it is still
not clear wlhich additional steps are intended (if any) to meld this useful
technique with parallel programs to foster investments in land and productiv-
ity. These details should be spelled out quickly, including the intended
roles of the collective and of farm households in investment and production
decision-making. For differing reasons, previous supervision missions have
18/  Though it would involve additional cost, setting up a social insurance
component midway through the course of the Meitan experiment would be
consistent with the intent of the overall program: to test reforms, and
modify the more promising ones as necessary to ensure their viability and
replicability. If Meitan County requires additional financial and techni-
cal support in this endeavor, the state and provincial governments should
be prepared to avail same.



- 18 -
recommended that state endorsement for the three remaining land system RRPs in
labor-deficit zones be withdrawn. From Shunyi, Beijing, because this "experi-
ment" was designed and implemented under very special circumstances, having
limited replicability; from the 'three counties" program in Southern Jiangsu,
because the experiment is mainly a device to fulfill county grain quotas
through collective intervention (and thus has confused objectives and limited
use as a pointer for general land system reform in labor-deficit areas); and
from Nanhai, Guangdong, because it has proved impossible to implement the RRP
in the face of farmer resistance to its more coercive features.
4,21      Among the rural industrialization RRPs, the two main ones were
located in Fuyang Prefecture, Anhui Province and Wenzhou City, Zhejiang. The
former aimed to improve the policy environment and industrial support services
for TVEs largely under collective ownership and serving internal markets. The
latter was focused primarily on privately owned TVEs, and contained a strong
element of export promotion. After the RSAL had been prepared, a third RRP,
located in Zhoucun City, Shandong was given State Council endorsement and
brought under the RSAL umbrella. This RRP was designed to experiment with
shareholding systems as a means to augment TVE capitalization.
4.22      In addition to being severely affected by the economic austerity
program (cf. PCR Working Paper No. 3--on file), the RRPs for TVEs had design
and coordination problems as well. These are aptly illustrated by the Fuyang
experience. Here the program covered eight counties in a poor, labor-surplus
area, each responsible for identifying and designing its own component(s).
These totaled 20 at the time of RSAL appraisal. In general, these components
aimed to improve the definition of the TVEs' legal status and property rights
within China's still fuzzy industrial and commercial codes, improve their
access to financial services and technical support services, simplify arrange-
ments for industrial regulation and administration (mainly through the intro-
duction of "one-stop shopping" and measures to reduce fiscal predation by
local government searching for additional sources of revenue), and the promo-
tion of surplus-labor exports to TVEs in labor-deficit areas. The Fuyang
program also contained sites and services development components, and some
industry-specific investment programs.
4.23      Although a program office for the RRP was set up at the prefectural
level in Fuyang to guide implementation, coordination was a problem from the
very start. The county-level governments which created the larger number of
these components in response to local problems, never fully accepted the
authority of the program office, and for a period during the height of the
economic crisis, it became merely another appendage of prefectural government,
having neither sufficient funds, trained staff or 'moral authority" to guide
implementation and influence county-level decisions. Worse, this lack of
acceptance translated into an inability to lobby effectively with the Anhui
Provincial and Fuyang Prefectural Assemblies for passage of framework legisla-
tion needed to define legal personalities for the TVEs (perhaps the key ele-
ment of the RRP) and establish their rights of ownership and property includ-
ing liquidation procedures. As a result, many of the TVE reform components
were fragmented and implemented without the benefit of having broader objec-
tives which might be generalized for TVEs throughout China.



- 19 -
4.24      The rural financial market RRPs are more diverse, and more difficult
to prioritize. These consist of three kinds of endeavor 19/ to (a) decentral-
ize the state banks, remove geographical restrictions on their operations,
permit greater flexibility in deposit taking and term transformation through
lending, improve clearance procedures and establish interbank markets
(Guanghan, Sichuan), (b) establish savings and loan type associations to aug-
ment TVE financial resources (Fuyang, Anhui), and (c) establish financial
service cooperatives (Shangzhi, Heilongjiang; Yutian, Hebei and 17 other
sites). The Guanghan RRP, essentially involving the state-owned Agricultural
Bank of China, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and local branches
of the PBC was partially implemented before falling afoul of the national
credit plan and guidelines announced in late 1988. Deposit taking, in partic-
ular. has been broadened, though the flexibility in lending has diminished and
controls ov:r passive and active lending rates have been increased since 1988
thereby severely constraining the ability of the state-owned banks to benefit
from this increased flexibility and use it as a base for commercializing a
greater share of their lending operations. Similarly, clearing procedures
have been streamlined, but the RRP has not been authorized to establish an
interbank market(s), which again is inhibiting a full commercialization of
their financial intermediation activities. There remain many elements in this
experiment that are promising, however, and which could easily be rectified
and extended to other regions once the drive for financial sector reform can
be fully resumed in China.
4.25      There is no question that the experimental reforms in the informal
financial service sector (the multifarious financial service cooperatives and
Fuyang's savings and loan associations) have demonstrated the important role
these entities can play in mobilizing local funds and tapping into the resid-
ual assets of the former communes. However, concerns previously expressed by
staff concerning current liquidity, the strength of their resource base, and
loan appraisal capabilities have really not been addressed yet by the respon-
sible authorities. The recent PCR mission (January 1991) continues to have
doubts about the financial viability of some of these institutions, which
appear to avail of loopholes in or lax enforcement of existing banking regula-
tions to engage in high risk lending. These doubts underscore the need to
carry out the review of rural financial markets discussed below. As a stopgap
measure, however, there remains a need to commission proper financial audits
for each of the informal financial service entities under the RSAL's purview.
In some instances, there may not be time to wait for the results of the Review
(whose recommendations would be general in any eveiit), since an insolvency of
any one of these entities could imperil the successful implementation of real
sector comporents in the RRPs with which they are associated.
4.26      In an effort to stimulate grain production and reduce budgetary
outlays, the grain system RRPs, in Xinxiang, Henan and Yulin, Guangxi, were
established to find financially sustainable and politically viable means to
increase producer prices and reduce consumer subsidies. The design of both
RRPs entailed production quota elimination, input price increases and the
eventual elimination of distribution subsidies (but not of manufacturing sub-
sidies) on agricultural inputs, the progressive elimination of urban ration
19/ Actually, four kinds, if the Meitan experiment in land banking is catego-
rized as an experiment in rural financial market reform.



- 20 -
allotments, consumer price increases and eventual price liberalization, the
provision of once-only income supplementation to urban ration recipients, and
steps to "demonetize" the large volume of outstanding unused ration coupons.
4.27      Both also contain programs to augment fiscal revenues, though these
are different. In Xinxiang, the bulk of the financial burden is borne by the
local government, and agricultural tax reform is a key component of the RRP.
The Xinxiang experiment aimed from the outset to be financially self-
sufficient, i.e., the incremental revenue from increased agricultural taxation
and input price increases was expected to cover the incremental expenditure
associated with higher farm-gate procurement prices, and later--as urban sales
prices were increased--to generate positive total net revenue. In Yulin, the
cost of financing the grain distribution and production subsidies is shared
between the local and provincial governments. Here, the RRP was designed to
increase the buoyancy of more traditional revenue sources to finance the
incremental costs of adjustment, though implicit in the experimental design
was an expectation that some subsidization might still be required in the
post-reform period, albeit at much lower levels than before.
4.28      During 1988-90, grain production and local per capita availability
increased in both experimental zones, in part due to higher producer prices.
Although located in quite different agroeconomic environments (Xinxiang is in
a surplus wheat area, Yulin is in a traditionally deficit rice-producing
area), both RRPs encountered similar problems, though these were not problems
of design as much as they were problems of execution. However, for largely
common reasons, implementation was not as smooth as anticipated, and comrr-
plaints by local residents threw into doubt, for a while at least, the politi-
cal acceptability of the reform models being tested. In both RRPs, it proved
necessary to postpone key aspects of consumer price reform and additional
reductions in per capita ration allotments, whiuh immediately led to financial
difficulties since grain procurement prices had already been raised. Serious
cash flow problems emerged, and in the Xinxiang experiment, the Reform Office
had to borrow funds to meet cash obligations. Although input prices had been
'ncreased, fertilizer and diesel oil remained in short supply (a consequence
of general economic austerity, although special arrangements had been made
when the experiments were formulated to furnish farmers in the reform areas
with necessary amounts), which placed further upwards pressure on local market
prices and may have curtailed potential production response.
4.29      In Xinxiang, the authorities' temporary loss of enthusiasm for urban
price increases was exacerbated by inadequate publicity before implementation
began. As a result, local cadres reacted quite strongly, and as grain farmers
were the main beneficiaries of the producer price reforms, nongrain farmers
(especially local cotton producers) also expressed considerable dissatisfac-
tion with the reform. In their attempts to restart the experiments during the
second half of 1990, the authorities in both the Xinxiang and Yulin reform
areas have specifically addressed the above-noted difficulties, and a much
smoother implementation is now expected.
Diffusion/Dispersion
4.30      Since the RSAL was formulated, ten additional RRPs have received
State Council endorsement, covering additional experimentation with grain
pricing and marketing reform, trial operation of a shareholding system for



- 21 -
TVEs, experiments in social and commercial forestry, animal production systems
in remote mountainous zones, and extension of a modified PRS to lands operated
within the jurisdiction of China's State Farms. In addition, systematic
efforts have been made to diffuse and replicate the more successful RRPs in
other regions, through the medium of conferences, seminars and site visits
coordinated by central government units.
4.31      The special effort towards diffusion has been most evident for the
experiments in grain pricing and marketing reform. The central government and
the Experimental Reform Office of the Ministry of Agriculture (previously of
RCRD) have organized several conferences to consolidate the results and les-
sons from the existing grain system reform programs. These conferences
included: (a) a National Working Conference on Rural Reforms in December
1989; (b) a Symposium on Grain System Reforms in September 1990 in Yulin,
Guangxi experimental zone; and (c) a National Grain Conference in November
1990. Another conference on rural reforms is planned in mid-1991. One of the
outcomes of these conferences was a consensus among policymakers, intellectui-
als, researchers and bureaucrats on the need to introduce comprehensive grain
system reforms at the national level, which contributed substantially to the
recent (May 1, 1991) pricing and marketing reform. Also, through sponsored
visits to the RRPs, three provinces, one provincial-level municipality and
jurisdictions in four additional provinces introduced all or part of the
Xinxiang (Henan) and Yulin (Guangxi) RRPs even before the recent pricing
reforms were announced. Elements of other experiments (i.e., the land system
reforms) have been generalized within the provinces where the RRPs are
located, but there is no indication as yet that these are being replicated yet
beyond provincial boundaries, although, in the case of both the land system
reforms and the TVE experiments, national and regional symposia have also been
utilized to publicize their features to policymakers from other provinces.
Procurement and Disbursements
4.32      When the RSAL was appraised, it was expected that its proceeds would
be disbursed over an 18-month period.  However, both the Credit and the Loan
disbursed at a much faster pace in response to the Government's urgent need
for foreign exchange financing in late 1988 and early 1989.  As a result, the
Credit was declared closed on October 17, 1988 and the Loan account was closed
on September 18, 1989.
4.33      The Bank's expectation that upwards of $125 million equivalent of
procurement would be made using serial ICB tendering procedures was not fully
realized. These procedures were established by visits to China by the Asia
Region's Senior Procurement Advisor, and were accepted with some reluctance by
the intended procurement agency, the China National Chemicals Import and
Export Corporation (SINOCHEM). However, the Government responded to staff
pressure when it became apparent that this target would not be fulfilled, and
procurement from the remaining $57 million in the Loan account was carried out
satisfactorily using ICB procedures. Subsequently, conferences were organized
in China to encourage the use of serial international tendering by China's
foreign trading corporations for all of the country's bulk procurement.



- 22 -
Monitoring and Coordination
4.34      In addition to the fairly extensive monitoring effectuated through
China's regular reporting channels, a need was noted during preparation for
detailed socioeconomic and financial impact assessments in many of the experi-
mental program areas. With assistance from the Social Research Center (SRC)
at the Beijing Peoples' University, monitoring systems have been designed for
all of the RRPs except the rural financial markets experiment in Guanghan,
Sichuan (which is being monitored largely through financial system channels).
Some progress has also beer, made to staff-up and equip local offices to carry
out the required investigations and analyses, and to institutionalize train-
ing. Some surveys have also been completed, however the monitoring system as
a whole remains at the formative level. Staff training to date has been very
limited and equipment purchases have had to be postponed. While the need for
monitoring is keenly appreciated by RCRD/MOA staff responsible for designing
the system, there is both a lack of adequate technical knowledge among those
responsible for implementing the system, and a clear lack of appreciation of
the potential benefits from systematic monitoring by many of the responsible
local authorities.
4.35      Excepting a year-long hiatus following the events at Tiananmen, when
the directions for future reform were under intensive debate, coordination has
generally been smooth, and the involvement of central government officials and
technicians has helped local authorities to overcome numerous implementation
problems. Semiannual progress reporting has been thorough and frank, excel-
lent arrangements were made to receive two Bank supervision missions (Septem-
ber 1988 and September 1989) and the PCR mission (January 1991), and the cen-
tral agencies responsible for coordination were able to respond quickly to
Bank concerns about procurement and some procurement documentation which
SINOCHEM, the procuring agency, was initially reluctant to release.
V. LESSONS LEARNED
General
5.1       By design, the RSAL did not resemble the usual agricultural SECAL.
It was formatted to support the only systematic ongoing attempt (in 1988) by a
socialist country to devise workable/sustainable principles for policy and
institutional reform that could help its rural economy accelerate the transi-
tion from plan to market. There were no firm, tested guidelines available in
1988. Second, the RSAL was implemented for a continent-sized nation contain-
ing the world's largest population, 80 percent of whom continue to reside in
rural areas with incomes that remain low by international comparison. Thus,
in addition to unclear guideposts for reform, there is an element of income
vulnerability that any responsible government would have to address (and the
Chinese Government is extremely concerned with safeguarding the incomes of its
population) while trying to implement a wholesale reordering of the economic
system.
5.2       It was in recognition of these factors that the Government of China
adopted the experimental approach, which in essence is a step-by-step approach
to reform, and established its program of state sponsorship for the more pro-
mising RRPs. And it was in recognition of the wisdom of this approach that



- 23 -
the Bank agreed to provide support for the program through adjustment-type
lending.
5.3       The impoitance of vision and commitment for such a far-reaching
program was amply underscored during the course of RSAL implementation.
Throughout 1988 and into the first half of 1989, the program by and large was
proceeding smoothly. Perhaps the most visible indication is the volume of
legislation actually passed and the amount of draft legislation that was actu-
ally prepared in 1988 and early 1989 along lines set forth in the Policy
Letter. Equally significant, the confidence shown at the center was reflected
in the experimental zones, where RRP designs were improved along lines sug-
gested by the RCRD and Bank missions, necessary permissions to suspend exist-
ing rules and regulations were quickly forthcoming, implementation schedules
were accelerated, and "project" organizations were strengthened and stream-
lined. However, the events of June 1989, and the profound review of China's
future development strategy that followed (neither of which could be antici-
pated) led to considerable uncertainty about the future of rural experimenta-
tion in China and a loss of confidence among key officials at all levels of
Government who were responsible for implementing the RSAL. Implementation
first slowed then stalled during the second half of 1989.
5.4       By the end of 1989, however, China's senior leadership had endorsed
a continuation of the program of rural experimentation. It also decided to
relocate the central units responsible for RSAL coordination in agencies where
(a) rural policy research could be more easily coordinated with general eco-
nomic policy research (thus the RCRD's Development Institute was reestablished
within the State Council's Development Research Center as a new Rural Develop-
ment Institute) and (b) where the experimental programs could work more
closely with existing line agencies responsible for implementing existing
national policies (thus the RCRD's Experimental Programs Office was trans-
ferred to the Ministry of Agriculture's new Research Center for the Rural
Economy). By mid-1990, operating links had been reestablished with the RRPs'
program offices and the pace of implementation firstly resumed, then had been
accelerated markedly by the end of the year. This progression of events dem-
onstrates clearly that attempts to introduce reforms in a transitioning
socialist economy such as China's, one not fully equipped with self-regulating
economic mechanisms and still dependent on a large measure of administrative
guidance, requires firm commitment and clear economic leadership from the very
top, at least until such time as markets begin to function and macroeconomic
interventions can be managed through a more indirect guidance.
Program Components
5.5       The RRPs supported by the RSAL, and even those outside the RSAL,
provided a rich experience and many valuable lessons. These lessons could be
extremely useful to refine the existing programs and improve the design and
implementation of future regional or national reforms. Some of these lessons
are summarized below.
5.6       Grain System Reform.  During the course of implementing the two
grain RRPs, it became apparent that system reforms do not involve as high a
risk as was previously supposed in China, both in terms of leading to poten-
tial urban unrest or contributing to consumer price inflation. Experience
with these RRPs also highlighted the importance of advanced publicity about



- 24 -
the program's potential impact and of appropriate training for those involved
in its implementation. These lessons were not lost when the Government
announced its recent nationwide reforms to grain pricing and marketing
arrangements. There are other important lessons:
(a) Grain system reforms generally result in unequal distribution of
benefits and costs. Some segments of the society gain, others lose,
but the fundamental redistribution must and will occur in favor of
the rural population at the expense of China's highly subsidized
urban consumers. In the interest of necessary public support for
the reform program, there is a need to make sure that losses are not
too large. If so, some adjustments must be made to compensate such
losses. Furthermore, there is a need to protect the most vulnerable
urban groups from severe economic and financial loss.
(b)  Agricultural tax reform--as implemented in Xinxiang--may be applica-
ble to other areas in China since the agricultural tax is relatively
a stable source of revenue and easy to levy. At present, the yields
from direct agricultural taxation are relatively low. However,
agricultural taxes cannot be, and should not be, raised without a
corresponding increase in quota procurement prices and an elimina-
tion of price distortions.
(c) When setting up local reform programs, financial shortfalls can be
expected until new sources of revenue (e.g., from agricultural tax
reform) and decreases in consumer subsidies (from consumer price
adjustments) begin to materialize. An effort must therefore be made
to raise "transitional" financing from existing local sources.
Since these sources are not always reliable, there may be a need for
tempotary supplementation through budgetary transfers from higher
levels of government. However, the planning data from the Xinxiang,
Henan RRP suggest that once the price adjustments and tax reform
have been fully implemented, the combined set of reforms will result
in substantially positive net revenues, in spite of higher producer
prices, owing to the elimination of consumer subsidies and higher
tax yields.
(d) Ideally, grain system reform for both purchase and sale components
should be implemented simultaneously. At the very least (to
restrain incremental budgetary outlays), consumer prices should be
raised and per capita rations reduced prior to introducing offset-
ting adjustments in producer prices and grain production quotas.
However, different regions or provinces can follow different vari-
ants of the grain system reform depending upon their special circum-
stances and local constraints.
(e) The experience of the grain system experimental programs implemented
thus far has demonstrated that these RRPs are effective and do work.
In this context, these programs have: (i) provided guidance for the
design and implementation of future reforms; (ii) provided necessary
experience and on-the-job training for those who were involved in
different aspects of the experiments; and (iii) created an environ-
ment which is conducive for major policy reforms at local, provin-
cial and national levels in the future.



- 25 -
5.7       Lessons from the Land Management System reform are less encouraging.
The Government's future agenda in this area is still being worked out, thus
the attention of the RSAL implementing agencies has tended to focus on diffi-
culties in particular RRPs.
(a) The ideological mandate to reconsider nationwide reform appears
still to be lacking in this policy area, a point that is underscored
by difficulties which the Government's Land Issues Study Team has
encountered over the past three years while attempting to secure
approval for expatriate assistance with its Rural Land Issues
Study.20/
(b) There also is a realization that reliance on untested market mecha-
nisms probably can not produce quickly the overdue consolidation of
holdings needed in the labor-deficit provinces, where there has been
a major outflow of labor from agriculture, which also has vitiated
some of the enthusiasm for market-based mechanisms.
(c) There is a need for clear objectives at the experimental program
level. The RRPs in the labor-deficit areas which aimed to foster a
rapid consolidation of land through administrative means were flawed
in some respects because of a continuing need to service the state's
grain procurement quotas, which led uniformly in these RRPs to an
otherwise unwarranted "scaling-up" of farm size in order to foster
mechanization, though it was recognized that permanent subsidies may
be required to sustain the mechanization programs.
(d) That the market-based experiment was located in Meitan, Guizhou--a
poor remote area--probably contributed to the sense that market
mechanisms may be inappropriate. While this is an area of consider-
able land shortage and there was a strong demand for land, there was
little supply of prime land for such a market. It was not, there-
fore, the most appropriate area to develop that reform initiative,
and points to a weakness in the State Council's near total reliance
on "revealed" local initiative as the starting point for identifying
(and thus locating) sites for the RRPs.
5.8       Unlike the grain system and land system experimental programs, the
Rural Industrialization and Rural Financial Market RRPs were designed to
support policy and institutional reforms which already were well underway at
the national level. These also are policy areas that proved particularly
vulnerable to the contractionary effects of economic austerity in 1989 and
1990, and which--because full control over experimental policy-making was
never released to the au..horities responsible for implementing these RRPs--
meant that these reform programs never enjoyed full latitude to really test
experimental designs.
5.9       There were other design problems.  In the Fuyang, Anhui RRP for TVE
reform, a very large number of discrete components were incorporated into the
20/ This study was originally formulated in 1988 as a UNDP project to be
executed by the Bank, in order to prepare for a deepening of the land
system reforms under the umbrella of a second RSAL.



- 26 -
experimental program, which proved difficult to coordinate and nearly impossi-
ble to monitor. In retrospect, more selectivity should have been used in
choosing components, by focusing only on the essential elements, viz. estab-
lishing the legal framework for ownership, capitalization and liquidation;
technical assistance to develop the associated "internal management struc-
tures"; and perhaps more emphasis on breaking down administrative barriers
which would allow Fuyang's TVEs to cast a wider net when securing raw materi-
als, other inputs and gaining market access (though some progress was made in
this area). On the other hand, the "one-stop shopping" component and Fuyang's
labor exchange have proved worthy of replication, and much was learned about
how to organize skilled input to assist with technological upgrading, grounded
largely in the systematic posting of trained engineers on temporary assignment
to work with individual TVEs in Fuyang, that has recently (early 1991) become
national policy.
5.__      For the Guanghan, Sichuan RRP for reform of formal sector intermedi-
aries, the inability of project entities to coordinate closely with the PBC's
headquarters and regional offices denied sufficient control over "external"
influences that ultimately frustrated the intent of the experiment. PBC rep-
resentatives should have been posted to the Leading Groups for the RSAL at
both the national and local levels for these experiments, and an attempt was
made to do so while the RSAL was being formulated. But the reluctance of
PBC's staff to formally participate, partially in reaction to the inexperience
of RCRD staff with principles of banking and rural finance, perhaps should
have indicated that experimentation with this kind of component would have
been better organized through financial sector channels, and not by "real
sector" experts.
Loan Format
5.11      Tranching.  For a host of reasons,21/ it was decided to rely on
the prospect of repeater operations as the vehicle for ensuring conformity
with intentions indicated in the Policy Letter.221 As events developed
during the RSAL implementation period, it appears that tranching in any form
would not have been very useful as means for dissuading nonperformance under
Chinese conditions. The validity of this conclusion would seem to have been
borne out by the readiness with the RRPs were restarted once the senior lead-
ership had again endorsed the rural reform program: actions that were taken
in full recognition on the Government's side that the "second tranche" (i.e.,
a repeater RSAL) will unlikely materialize in the near future. It also is
21/ These include cultural reasons, the comparative insignificance of loan
proceeds to China's overall budgetary balance, and recognition that the
Chinese side desired as much the guidance and institutional support which
the Bank could provide as it did the loan proceeds.
22/ In the aftermath of subsequent events, the absence of tranching may also
have headed off a potentially damaging confrontation with the Chinese
government over RSAL conditionality. As events developed, the Bank--
through a more low-keyed approach--was able to throw its influence behind
those urging that reform be continued, and probably also contributed to
the decision to retain strong central guidance for the RRPs after the
decision to dissolve the RCRD was taken by the Chinese Government.



- 27 -
witnessed by the ercellent and candid PCR which was prepared by the Government
for the RSAL (cf. Part II of this report), more than a year after the Govern-
ment was informed that a repeater RSAL had been deleted from the Bank opera-
tional program for China.
5.12      There was another positive aspect to the chosen format.  China's
budgeting system at all levels of government is managed very much in accord
with "pay-as-you-go" principles. This makes it difficult to approve new
expenditures unless revenue earning opportunities or new sources of revenue
can be identified, irrespective of the global availability of budgetary
resources. Earmarking is thus a common practice. A common characteristic of
the RRPs, whether revenue generating or not, is the great uncertainty associ-
ated with budgeting since their features are unfamiliar and experimental. As
noted below, financial shortfalls dogged the implementation of some of the
RRPs throughout the RSAL cycle. Thus within this budgeting system,23/ the
rapid disbursement of loan proceeds made it possible for the central authori-
ties to quickly acquire and allocate counterpart funds to the RRPs. which
facilitated considerably their acceleration at the beginning of the operation,
and their resuscitation in 1990 after the leadership's intentions were made
clear.
5.13      Design.  In an effort towards simplification, it was decided while
the RSAL was being prepared, not to incorporate a technical assistance compo-
nent within the format of the RSAL. With the benefit of hindsight, this
appears to have been a mistake. Technical assistance could have measurably
assisted with setting up the monitoring arrangements for the RRPs, and was
probably needed to assist both the central-level Experimental Programs Office
and offices in the experimental zones to simplify the designs of the RRPs
(e.g., for TVEs and for rural financial intermediation) and refine the imple-
mentation arrangements. In this connection, the provision of an overseas
training component, though rarely associated with SECAL-type lending, may also
have been justified.
Lessons From the Bank's Supervision Effort
5.14      The RSAL program was comprehensive, and necessarily so.  It would be
difficult to introduce fundamental reform in a single policy area governing
rural economic and income generating activities without correspondingly
in-depth reform in supporting policies. But because of the wide experimental
net which had to be cast in order to prepare comprehensive, interrelated
national-level enactments, the RSAL program proved to be expensive and diffi-
cult to supervise. Because of the geographic dispersion of the many RRPs, the
supervision effort and site visits by staff were concentrated on a few that
were considered key. As a result, staff reliance on fair and accurate report-
ing by the Government was perhaps more important in trying to discern progress
and weaknesses in the RSAL design than it might otherwise be with the more
traditional SECALs.
5.15      Such reporting, in the view of staff, proved fully up to o:r expec-
tations and requirements, allowing for professional limitations of the Govern-
ment's side. The progress reports and extensive briefings provided to the
23/ The reform of which lay well outside of the RSAL purview.



- 28 -
Bank's supervision missions were rarely controverted by findings during the
site visits. In retrospect, however, this approach to supervision may contain
its own limitations. The Chinese economy has been described as being cellular
in previous Bank reports, and staff may have been slow to appreciate the
actual importance being assigned to the cooperative marketing reforms by
Chlina's central authorities, as potential vehicles for cutting across adminis-
trative and subsectoral boundaries in order to improve market integration.
The Policy Letter (para. 25) called for the preparation of draft cooperative
regulations in 1988: a draft cooperative's law was presented to the National
People's Congress in 1989, but not approved. Meanwhile, the cooperative mar-
keting RRPs were only visited once during the course of supervision, and a
more intensive effort may have helped the central coordinating units to head
off problems which have developed in these experiments.
Role of the Bank
5.16      The Bank's involvement during the start-up of the second-phase pro-
gram contributed substantially to the design of the underlying experiments,
and helped to focus the government's attention on the policy, institutional
and financial requisites of the program and attendant risks. This was no easy
matter.  The RSAL was formulated after a decade of success in China, a success
that was achieved by allowing ideas for reform to percolate up from perceived
local needs. But the second phase program added another element: a conscious
and visible effort on the part of the State to withdraw from direct interven-
tizn to a more regulatory mode, which required a fundamental transformation
not only of economic policy and state intervention, but also a systematic
withdrawal of Government and Party operatives from daily decision-making in
the rural economy. In effect, it called also for a political transformation
in China's rural areas. For the local cadre and influentials, this could have
proved difficult to digest, and indeed there was a local reaction against the
RSAL program in the Fall of 1989 on into the first half of 1990.
5.17      In the midst of the debate concerning the nature of China's future
economic order, the Bank fielded an RSAL supervision mission in September 1989
which stressed the importance of maintaining central support and guidance, and
in particular, recommended that properly staffed coordination and supervisory
authority for the RRPs be retained within state agencies, having the same
brief that the original lead agency for the RSAL--the State Council's Research
Center for Rural Development (RCRD)--was given. The State Council eventually
accepted this recommendation, and on December 25, 1990, reassigned the RCRD's
main units more or less intact to the line and policy advisory units otherwise
responsible for rural reform in China.
5.18      Also in the midst of this debate, the Bank initiated Its 'Agricul-
tural Transformation" study (Report No. 8652-CHA) which focused on reform in
China's grain sector. Drafts of the report were reviewed by responsible offi-
cials, and its conclusions were presented at an international seminar held in
Beijing, January 1991.  Subsequently, staff have received several indications
from Chinese Ministers that the conclusions and recommendations of the report
may have tipped the balance in favor of grain sector reform, including the
consumer price increases announced May 1, and the decision to proceed with the
Ministry of Commerce's wholesale grain market program.



- 29 -
5.19      While it is too early to assess the success of the RSAL program,
current indications are that the reforms in the realm of agricultural pricing
and marketing will be pursued aggressively and completed within the current
Plan period. Similarly, the rural industrialization components are being
rehabilitated, and authorization has been given for broader experimentation in
order to promote more flexible forms of company organization and capitaliza-
tion. It is difficult to assess the future prospects of reform in China's
rural financial markets since the Government still has not organized itself to
carry out and monitor effective experimentation. Meanwhile, progress on the
land systems reform must await the outcome of a review recently commissioned
by the State Council of the proper balance between farm-level decision-making
and collective intervention (i.e., intervention by local units of civil admin-
istration).
5.20      On balance, the Bank's decision to approve the RSAL has been justi-
fied by the progress made in 1988 and the first half of 1989, and the renewed
emphasis on rural reform that began midway through 1990. The presence and
support of the Bank clearly influenced the leadership's decision to continue
to promote rural reform. It is thus the view of staff that a repeater RSAL
should be kept in the offing, which could be formalized once the Bank has been
fully satisfied that sufficient progress is being made to carry out the
remaining unfulfilled "conditionalities" in the RSAL loan and credit agree-
ments.



- 30 -
PART 2: REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1
Foreword
i.        This report is written according to agreement reached between the
Chinese government and the Wlorld Bank on the China rural sector adjustment
loan.
ii.       The experimental areas for China's rural reform were established in
1987, as an important component of the overall strategy of deepening rural
reform in China. As a summary report, (i) this article is trying to record,
on the basis of two early reports entitled '1988: The Experimental Areas for
China's Rural Reform" and "The Report on Work in the First Six Months of 1989
in the Experimental Areas for China's Rural Reform," and in a comprehensive
and systematic way, the realities of the experiments carried out in China's
rural reform; (ii) apart from giving some general descriptions on the reali-
ties of the experiments carried out, it also contains in-depth analyses on and
theoretical summary of the development process, correlative factors and the
future trends of these experiments.
iii.      The report is made up of ten sections.  Section I briefly describes
a series of institutional changes and economic growth caused by the restruc-
turing of China's economic system since 1987 and introduces major fields of
interest involved and measures to be taken in the near future in the
restructuring of China's economic system. Section II looks back on the course
of China's rural reform; analyses, on account of the recent rural economic
developments and related policy adjustment, the major issues involved and
difficulties existing in China's rural reform; and describes the developments
from 1987 to 1990 in the experimental areas for China's rural reform.
Sections III-IX introduce the implementation of seven sets of experiments
carried out in the experimental areas. These sections also contain analyses
on the problems encountered so far, as well as plans for the future
development of these experiments. Section X is an introduction to the
executive organ for the China rural sector adjustment loans, namely SAIC
Agribusiness Trust and Investment Corporation.
iv.       This report is mainly based on the abundant materials collected in
the already-established experimental areas for China's rural reform. It was
jointly prepared by the working staff of the Office for the Management of the
Experimental Areas for China's Rural Reform of the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Department of Rural Affairs of the Development Research Center of the
State Council. The SAIC Agribusiness Trust and Investment Corporation has
also previded significant support for its completion.
1/   Summary of Borrower's PCR, submitted in December 1990 by the Office under
the State Council's Leading Group for the China-Rural Sector Adjustment
Loan. The original PCR (totaling 163 pages) has been placed on file.



- 31 -
I. A GENERAL REVIEW OF CHINA'S ECONOMIC STRUCTURAL REFORM
A Brief Review of China's Economic Structural Reform
1.1       The year 1990 is the twelfth year of China's economic structural
reform. The past 11 years witnessed a remarkable growth in China's economy.
During the 11 years from 1979 to 1989, the average annual growth rate of the
gross industrial output value (at comparable prices, the same below) is
12.4 percent; of the gross output value of agriculture, 5.9 percent; of GNP,
9.1 percent; national income, 8.7 percent; of the fixed assets investment,
12.8 percent; of state revenue, 9.1 percent; of total volume of domestic
retail sales, 8.9 percent; and of total volume of imports and exports,
16.6 percent. The production of a number of major products also maintained a
high growth rate. The average annual growth rates of grain, cotton, oil-
bearing crops and meat are 2.7 percent, 5.2 percent, 8.6 percent, and 9.5 per-
cent respectively, and the average annual growth rates of raw coal, electri-
city, crude oil and steel are 4.8 percent, 7.7 percent, 2.6 percent, and
6.1 percent respectively. Meanwhile, the consumption level of the urban and
rural population increased at an annual average of 6.1 percent. Experiencing
continuous growth in the 11 years, China's economic power as a whole was nota-
bly strengthened and the living standards of the people were also raised
noticeably.
1.2       The 1980s opened up new prospects for the socialist modernization
drive anc witnessed the most remarkable economic development of all the 40
years after the founding of the People's Republic of China. The major reason
accounting for the fact is that the government has firmly implemented the
fundamental policy of institutional reform and opening to the outside world in
economic construction.
1.3       The objective of China's economic structural reform is to establish
a new economic system and operating mechanisms that suit the need of develop-
ment of a planned commodity economy and in which the planned economy is well
coordinated with market adjustment. To this end, it is necessary to carry out
comprehensive reform in the highly centralized economic system that was estab-
lished and developed from the mid-1950s. So far, the reform has undergone
three major stages:
(a) The starting stage from the end of 1978 to October 1984: the reform
of this stage focused on the rural areas. The rural economic reform
found a breakthrough point for the whole economic structural reform
and revealed the great achievements of the reform, and thus aroused
the enthusiasm and won the support of the whole society.
(b)  The stage of full-scale implementation from October 1984 to Septem-
ber 1988: the focus of this stage was on urban areas. The urban
reform showed both the necessity of the continuous deepening of
reform and the complex and gradual nature of comprehensive economic
structural reform.
(c)  The adjustment stage from September 1988 to the present:  the focus
of this period is on the necessary readjustment and improvement of
the reform measures already implemented to ensure the stability of



- 32 -
the operation of the national economy and create a more favorable
environment and conditions for deepening of the reforms.
1.4       The reforms in the past 11 years have brought about a series of
major institutional changes in the economic structure of both the rural and
urban areas.
1.5       The major institutional changes in the rural areas are as follows:
(a)  The highly centralized people's commune system, characterized by the
integration of government administration and economic management,
has been abolished.
(b) On the basis of ptublic ownership playing the major role, various
economic entities have developed.
(c) The system of state monopoly for purchase and the system of state
purchase quotas that were practiced for nearly 30 years have been
replaced by a system of contracted quotas for purchase, leading to a
notable increase in the proportion of farm products that enter the
free market and a marked expansion of the role played by the market
in the adjustment of agricultural production.
(d) The policy that tended to restrain the development of nonagricul-
tural sectors in rural areas has changed, promoting a fuller exploi-
tation of other resources and giving farmers better opportunities of
investment, emoloyment and income.
1.6       In urban areas the reforms brought about the following institutional
changes:
(a) The reform has remarkably increased the autonomy of the enterprises
in their business and production planning, raw materials procure-
ment, product marketing, fund allocation and distribution of wages
and bonuses, personnel system and internal management structure.
(b) The reform of the price and circulation system to establish and
improve the socialist market system: the government now is only
responsible for the prices of major products that have significant
influence on the national economy and people's livelihood, while
other products are prices by the market. The basic target of the
reform of the circulation system is to establish gradually a new
type of commodity circulation system with multiple economic sectors,
diversified operation patterns, different circulation channels and
reduced number of links in the circulation process on the condition
that state commerce will continue to be the main channel.
(c) The reform of the macroeconomic control system is to fulfill the
task of progressively transforming the highly centralized direct
control system of the economy which mainly relies on administrative
means into an indirect control system in which the central govern-
ment and local governments exercise control of the economy at dif-
ferent levels, government planning and the market play a joint role,



- 33 -
and economic means, legal means and necessary administrative means
are comprehensively used.
(d) Further opening of the Chinese economy.
The Relationship between Rectifying the Economy and Deepening the Reform
1.7       The economic stru'otural reforms of the past ten years or so have
brought about great changes in the pattern and process of China's economy.
The developments in the following two areas are especially remarkable: first,
the scope and proportion of the economy which is regulated by the market has
been expanded; second, the interested parties are diversified. Obviously, the
two changes are favorable for vitalizing the economy. However, compared with
them, another two areas have lagged behind in the process of reform. One is
institutional development concerning the defining of property rights; and the
other is the pricing mechanisms, especially those involving the essential
productive elements and certain important commodities. It is not dificlult to
see that the elements that change quickly are the driving force which vital-
izes the micro-economy, and the elements that change gradually constitute
actually the policy environment that will guide the direction of this vital-
ity. The vitality of the participants in economic activities can now be
brought into full play, but owing to the obscured demarcation of property
rights and distorted price signals, their vitality may become misguided, lead-
ing to an irrational distribution of resources. The economic development in
recent years has proved this. Basic industries and their infrastructure
failed to get the rscessary resources and their capacity is rapidly declining
in contrast to the fast expansion of the processing industries. The stagna-
tion of agricultural output frcm 1985 through to 1988 further proved the fact.
1.8       Since the adoption of the policy of improving and rectifying the
economy in the autumn of 1988, the central government has taken some stern
measures to tighten government expenditure and credit. In 1989, though the
target of curbing inflation had not been completely realized, the momentum of
rapid rise of price indices was brought under control. What is more impor-
tant, the excessive scale of capital construction, industrial growth rate and
social consumption growth were to a great extent brought under control. In
1990, on the basis of the initial success in the improvement and rectification
of the economy, the central government took a series of adjustment measures to
alleviate new contradictions and counter the problem of the weak market while
adhering to the policy of tightening of government expenditure and credit.
These measures include: (i) moderately loosening control over the money sup-
ply to increase working capital of producing enterprises and procurement funds
of commercial enterprises; (ii) moderately adjusting the interest rates of
both deposits and loans; and (iii) moderately increasing investment. Through
these measures, the policy of improving and rectifying the economy achieved
marked successes in 1990, which are reflected in the following three aspects:
(a) Inflation was curbed effectively. In the period from January to
September 1990, the general social retail price index rose by 3 per-
cent compared with that of the same period of the previous year.
Although some price adjustment measures were taken to adjust the
supply and demand relationship of commodities in the fourth quarter,
the general social retail price index of the whole year i- sxpected
to rise by 7 percent compared with that of the previous yfzr.



- 34 -
(b) The growth rate of industry began to pick up. In 1989, industrial
output value was 8.3 percent more than that of the previous year,
but from the second half of the year, industrial production slumped
down for a certain period. Since April 1990, industrial production
has been picking up. By October, the gross output value of industry
has increased by 4.1 percent compared with the same period of last
year, and the growth rate of the annual gross output value of indus-
try is expected to be as much as 6 percent, which means that the
target for the gross output value of industry set in the beginning
of the year will be hit.
(c) The grain production of the country in 1989 was an all-time high,
and in 1990, it will not only surpass the production of the previous
year by a large margin, but also surpass the target of 412.5 million
tons set at the beginning of the year. Apart from the good harvest
of grain, output income of major farm products such as cotton and
oil-bearing seeds, which have been in a depressed state, are
expected to rise remarkably this year.
1.9       The changes in the three above-mentioned aspects of economic growth
show that the improving and rectifying efforts of the recent two years have
achieved great results. However, it is necessary to point out that deeply
rooted contradictions in the economic life in China are far from being solved,
and it was these contradictions that caused the present serious market slump
and imbalance 3.t revenue and expenditure. The two years' improving and recti-
fying efforts have also helped people understand that strengthening properly
the administrativk adjustment means is quite effective in the solution of such
superficial economic contradictions as disequilibrium between aggregate supply
and aggregate demand, but they are not so effective and powerful in the solu-
tion of deep-lying problems such as those in industrial structure and economic
efficiency. Therefore, with the national economy being gradually stabilized,
more powerful reform measures should be taken to deepen the economic struc-
tural reform in spite of the fact that the objectives of the policy of improv-
ing and rectifying the economy have not been completely realized. This has
become a perception shared by all.



- 35 -
II. A GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE CONDITIONS OF
CHINA'S RURAL ECONOMIC REFORM
Rural Reform: Review and Outlook
2.1       The 12 years of the structural reform of the rural economy has
brought about wide-ranging and deep-going changes in the organization of its
microstructure as well as the operational mechanism of its business activi-
ties. Substantial progress has been made in the following fields, forming
what is recognized as the fundamental framework of the new system of rural
economy: (i) a basic system of farm management has been assured in which the
household contracted system with remuneration linked to output forms the cor-
nerstone; (.!i) the commodity rate of farm produce and the portion entering the
market for exchange is gradually growing and the market of elements of produc-
tion is maturing; (iii) the structure of the unitary system of ownership of
means of production is broken up, and development is seen in a mix of many
different economic sectors and forms; (iv) rural economy has changed from a
closed economy to an open one and is developing into an economy characterized
by comprehensive management of many different sectors and departments;
(v) government control and regulation of the rural economy is being improved,
with economic and legal means of prices, taxation, interest rates, and con-
tracts being given a greater role. Reform has enabled the rural economy to
grow by leaps and bounds and attain new heights. In the 11 years between 1978
and 1989, gross social product in the country's rural areas increased three-
fold, with an average annual growth of 13.5 percent; gross agricultural prod-
uct increased by 88.3 percent, averaging a growth of 5.9 percent per year,
being 3.2 percentiles higher than the rate averaged for the 26 years previous
to the reform. The growth rate of all major agricultural produce surpassed
all historical periods. Total grain production increased by 33.7 percent,
cotton by 74.8 percent, oil crops by 148 percent, and meat by 172 percent.
The annual growth rate of the gross product of village and township enter-
prises averaged 30 percent over the 11 years. The share of nonagricultural
product in the gross social product in rural areas rose from 30.5 percent to
54.9 percent. Average per capita income of farmers rose from Y 133.6 to
Y 601.5, that is, a 350 percent increase in 11 years. The average annual
increase is Y 42.5, as against the 28-year average of Y 3.2 per annum before
the reform. These figures and facts argue eloquently for the success of
China's rural reform and the correctness of the general orientation of the
policies carried out by the government during the period. The policies have
won the enthusiastic support of the farmers. There is no reason and no possi-
bility for them to change.
2.2       However, the path of rural reform has not been smooth, and its
actual progress in the 12 years has been marked with turnabouts and pitfalls.
The success of the reform to contract responsibility to individual households
brought great joy, while frustrations and failures dismayed the general pub-
lic. Tne reversals in agricultural growth after 1985 and the emergence of
inflation around 1988, together with problems left unsolved by the rural
reforms, indicate that the complexity and protracted nature of rural reform
far surpass our first estimates. It is therefore necessary, perhaps, to
describe objectively how certain vicissitudes in the course of rural reform
had come about, so that the basic contradictions and difficulties confronting



- 36 -
rural reform today could be discerned and what possible actions to solve them
may be deliberated.
2.3       Three major stages have been traversed in rural reform up to the
present moment:
(a) The breakthrough stage (1978-84)s The reform went on rather
smoothly during this period. The household contracted responsibil-
ity system with remuneration linked to output spread from a few
areas to encompass all the provinces and municipalities, and from
being regarded as a contingency measure to solve problems of food
and clothing, the system won recognition within a few years as the
basic system of operations to be upheld in the rural areas for a
long period of time.
(b) The stage of comprehensive exploration (1985-88): Around 1985, the
government adopted a series of important decisions concerning fur-
ther reforming the system of the state monopoly of purchase and
marketing of agricultural product and the rural industrial composi-
tion and structure. Grain purchase was put under a double-tier
system of purchase by contract and purchase on the market. Aside
from cotton and three other commodities, restraints on the prices of
all other produce were taken off, and supply and demand was regu-
lated by the market. Farmers were encouraged to start and operate
village and township enterprises of different ownership patterns,
and to develop nonagricultural industries of all kinds. Reforms in
this stage promoted the division of labor and specialization in the
countryside and vastly expanded the traditional channels of commo-
dity flow and rate of exchange.
(c) The stage of readjustment (from autumn 1988 to the present): In
order to achieve the aims of curbing inflation, readjusting the
industrial structure and composition and reversing the downward
trend of economic results, which had all become serious, the govern-
ment published in August 1988 the work guidelines entitled "Improv-
ing the Economic Environment and Rectifying Economic Order." A
series of major policy measures were adopted in the course of
improvement and rectification, such as tightening of finances and
money, cutting down the scope of capital construction, restraining
the processing industry, including township and village enterprises,
from overfast growth containing the expansion of consumer funds, and
concentrating financial power and enhancing the powers of central
government in control and adjustment.
2.4       The direct cause of the setbacks in rural reform between 1985 and
1988 lies in the fact that agricultural growth was stagnated in a mire of
difficulties. The average annual product of the crop-planting part of agri-
culture was only 0.9 percent, far lower than the 6.8 percent figure of the
years between 1978-84. The was insufficient to support the changes in the
industrial composition and structure in the countryside and the high-speed
growth of the national economy. On the other hand, the most important direct
cause of the difficulties in the agricultural domain was inadequate input.
The gross capital accumulation in China's rural areas rose from Y 43 billion
in 1978 to around Y 200 billion in 1987, including the fund sources of govern-



- 37 -
ment finance, credit and loan institutions, the collectives and the individual
farm households. However, the share used in agricultural investment fell
sharply from 64 percent of the total to 19 percent. Though the absolute sum
showed some increase, yet it barely kept the same actual level if price fac-
tors are taken into account. Compared with the growth of 77 percent of agri-
cultural gross product in the same period, it is obvious that this stagnation
meant gaps in investment and relying on past-invested facilities without
replenishing or renovating them, and of failing to make new input in capital
construction and other long-term projects that should have been made.
2.5       We looked back on what has happened to the rural reform since 1985
and arrived at the following valuable conclusions: firstly, the general ori-
entation of reform has been correct. Proceeding from in-depth reforms in the
internal and external policy and systemic environment of the rural areas, a
change-over from the unitary planned mechanism to a combination of the regula-
tive forces of both the planned and the market mechanismns will be completed.
This is the inevitable demand of the growth of the rural and national economy.
This is also the basic way to solve the fundamental problems outlined above.
Second, we have been expected too much of the in-depth rural reforms and un-
derestimating the actual difficulties facing us. This has resulted from the
limitations of our knowledge and the negative side-effects of the unexpected
successes in the initial stages of the reform. Third, in the overall program
for reform, design and planning were lacking for intermediate measures. Such
measures to solve the concrete problems cropping up during the intermediate
stages are necessary owing to the fact that replacing the old system by the
new is not completed overnight. Careful planning is needed to minimize the
negative impact of the coexistence of two differing systems. Fourth, through-
out the process of implementing the reform, we must under no circumstances and
at no time relax our efforts at controlling and managing the actual process of
economic growth. Before the market mechanism can fully assume its role and
after administrative management has begun to soften up, it is imperative to
maintain macroeconomic control and regulation powers in order to avoid a state
of management vacuum.
2.6       By 1988, serious inflation had led to confusion in the nation's
economic and social life, and the tasks of stabilizing the economy and restor-
ing normal economic order have been pushed unavoidably to the fore. The task
of top priority was to regain a balance between the quantitative in,dicators of
the national economy and to readjust the irrational economic composition.
2.7       There is no contradiction between the goals of the rectification and
improvement campaign and those of the intensification reform. In building up
the economic organizations at the grassroots level in the countryside, we have
tried to perfect the double-tier management system and develop a socialized
service system, which have strengthened the work in providing farming house-
holds with services before, during and after crop-raising and other productive
activities. In the field of circulation, the regulation for monopoly opera-
tions in agricultural means of production have been updated and improved,
resulting in the prohibition and suppression of such acts as obstructing cir-
culation, setting up unapproved taxing stations, and dividing the market by
administrative means; the control over business administration and taxation
organs have been tightened in law-enforcement organs, leading to a complete
reversal of the state of confusion prevailing in the field of circulation. In
the reform of the system of grain purchase and sale, the State Council issued



- 38 -
such important decisions as the decision to set up the wholesale wheat market
at Zhengzhou and the decision to establish the system of specialized state
grain reserves. It is predicted that with the increase in effective grain
supply, a turnaround in the agricultural economy and an optimization of the
industrial composition and structure in the rural areas, further progress will
be steadily made in rural reform in the future.
2.8       Indeed, the rectification and improvement steps adopted so far have
not succeeded in completely solving the underlying contradictions that
obstruct the growth of the rural economy. Rural reform is more market-
oriented than the traditional system, and aims at setting up a new system of
socialist conunodity economy.  This orientation of the reform is determined by
the inherent demands of economic growth, and will not change with temporary
policy adjustments. We propose to do the following:
(a) Further deepen the reform in the grain purchase and sale setup. The
time is ripe for pushing through the reform as a favorable situation
has evolved in grain sale and purchases in the near future is to
stabilize purchase and restrict sales, while prices will be raised
and quotas for purchases and sales will be allocated and contracted
for. Efforts will be made to limit parity-price grain sales to such
categories as rations for the population and military personnel and
grain assigned for disaster relief. In grain rations, a new system
of only subsidizing low-income groups will be adopted.
(b)  Build up a land system.  The present collective ownership system of
land in the rural areas is more advantageous both politically and
economically than either private ownership or ownership by the
state. The most important task of the day is to prevent further
diminution in the scale of land management. We should continue to
experiment with the "two-tier" and "three-tier" system of land use
and introduce the competition mechanism by putting up right-to-use
responsibility-contract land for bidding, so that land-use effi-
ciency can be raised. Second, under unified i.ianagement by the col-
lective, a rational system for the transfer of land-use rights must
be firmly established. Third, the present system of contractual use
of land must be perfected, chiefly through open and standardized
contracted land-use fees. Still another measure is to clearly
define and expand the rights of the collective to sell, lease out,
mortgage and convert into stock shares the land under its title, and
to set down clear-cut rules and regulations for such transactions.
(c)  Further invigorate the growth of farmers' specialized cooperatives.
In building up institutions of a cooperative nature, emphasis must
be laid on providing individual farm households with before-, dur-
ing-, and after-production services, defining the rights-and-obliga-
tions relationship within the institution, setting up a healthy
accounting system, a sound administrative system and democratic
operating procedures, and protecting the existing property and po-
litical rights of the households. The legal status of all types of
cooperative economic institutions must also be clearly defined and
given legal protection.



- 39 -
(d) Persist in building up a village and township enterprise system with
clearly defined property rights as its essential content. The sys-
tem may be established on a joint-stock basis, so that principals at
all levels within and outside the enterprise will share benefits in
proportion to their responsibility for risks. The intercommunity
flow of production elements and reorganization of village and town-
ship enterprises should be encouraged.
(e) Open up the system of circulation of agricultural products. With
the exception of cotton and tobacco, which are under monopolized
purchase by the state, grain, oil crops, and other crops, after
fulfillment of government quotas, will be placed in open business
operations through a multiple of channels.
(f) Reform the rural financial system. The state should effect control
and regulation of the flow of social capital funds through such
means as setting up a system of agricultural funds, issuing long-
term bonds, instituting securities exchanges and making proper use
of interest discounts. The farmers' cooperative fund-raising soci-
eties, which have seen rapid growth in recent years, must be encour-
aged to develop further along healthy lines, and modern credit-and-
loan relationships must be helped to flourish.
An Outline of Reform in Rural Reform Experimental Zones
2.9       China's rural reform experimental zones were established according
to the spirit of Document (1987) 5 promulgated by the Central Committee of the
Communist Party of China. As reform spread to all aspects of the existing
urban and rural regimes, and regional differences and gaps in regional devel-
opment levels grew, it became more difficult to coordinate the pace of reform
from the center, and available means and information became seriously inade-
qtuate. One of the keys to the success of reform was whether a way could be
found, under changing circumstances, to spread thin the risks and difficulties
and adjust the strategy of reform to suit the situation. This was the back-
drop against which rural reform experimental zones were fitted into the over-
all rural reform strategy.
2.10      Starting in early 1987, the number of experimental zones grew year
by year, until to date 22 such zones have been established in 17 provinces,
municipalities and autonomous regions, all approved by and registered with the
State Council. These include the soon-to-be approved Huaihua Mountainous Area
Comprehensive Development Experimental Zone in Hunan Province and the Compre-
hensive Agricultural Development Experimenital Zone of Hainan Province. The 22
zones have a total population of 60 million. The basic task of the experimen-
tal zones is to blaze a trail for intensifying and deepening rural reform
throughout the country. The experiments of the zones already set up cover
rouglhly all ptoblems of major importance to the intensification of rural re-
form and together form a more or less complete program of experiments. Seven
series are discerned: (i) reform of the grain purchase and sale system;
(ii) land system building; (iii) grassroots cooperative economic institutions
building; (iv) village and township enterprise system building; (v) reform of
the rural financial system; (vi) systemic reform of the forestry, livestock
breeding, and fishery industries, state farms, and impoverished regions; and



- 40 -
(vii) building of the organizational system of comprehensive agricultural
development.
2.11      Reform in experimental zones differs from that in other regions in
that specialized leading organs, an organizational setup, and a whole series
of relatively thorough and strict operational procedures have been provided.
Governments at the provincial level are trusted with the leadership of experi-
mental zones. A leading group is formed headed by the responsible person of
the province for rural work and joined by responsible persons of departments
concerned, and a secondary-level leading group with a standing work team is
formed in the prefecture or county. After restructuring of the governmental
offices concerned, the Office for Rural Reform Experimental Zones under the
Ministry of Agriculture is entrusted by the State Council with the task of
leading and coordinating the work of all the experimental zones in the coun-
try. Work on an experimental zone follows in general the following procedural
steps: (i) preparatory investigation and study and identification of the
subject of the experiment; (ii) selection of site and training of personnel;
(iii) implementation of plan of experiment; (iv) follow-up investigation,
analysis and monitoring of the experimental process; and (v) summing-up of
experiences and shift-over into regular operation.
2.12      It is nearly four years since the first experimental zones were
started. As a whole, work has progressed from start-up and deployment to a
stage of steady development. Since 1989, the experimental zones have been
confronted with a new situation. The changes in the macro-environment have
strengthened the restraints on experiments in reform. Further intensification
of work in the experimental zones needs to be given a proper direction. In
view of this, the Sixth National Conference of the Work of Rural Reform Exper-
imental Zones convened in December 1989 determined that work in 1990 should
continue to implement the guideline of "consolidation, intensification,
improvement, and adoption of necessary complementary measures." The zones
were required to strengthen their leadership and aim at perfecting their work
over the long term. They were urged to further display the spirit of explora-
tion and innovation and strive for bigger and better results in the work of
the experimental zones. The zones have since drawn up work plans for 1990 in
accordance with the decision.
2.13      Unfavorable conditions have increased since the beginning of this
year, and different experimental zones have felt to varying degrees the impact
of the rectification drive and the economic retrenchment, and have shown
uneven progress; however, taken as a whole, definite results have been gained
and progress has been made in the work of the experimental zones. These
results are summarized in Sections III-VIII of this report.
2.14      In step with work on experimentation, the experimental zones have
organized training programs, theoretical symposiums, meetings to exchange
experiences and study projects on specialized topics. The theoretical and
practical standards of the personnel have improved. Monitoring and supervi-
sion of the work of the experimental zones have been strengthened.
2.15      Some major problems in the work of the experimental zones:
(a) Since the initiation of the rectification and improvement drive,
conditions have changed as regards some of the measures inconsistent



- 41 -
with given policies formerly approved for the experimental zones,
indirectly impacting on the regular process of the experiments and
triggering new problems in coordination.
(b) The poor quality of the personnel and their work have resulted in
incompetent and belated review work on the vast amount of experi-
ences and data accumulated by the experimental zones over nearly
four years. The lagging behind of summing up, analysis and evalua-
tion has become a drag on the intensification and extension of the
experiments.
(c) For lack of properly defined standards of evaluation, and wanting in
expertise and means, the supervision and monitoring of the results
of the experiments have not been satisfactory and need to be im-
proved.
(d) Some newly-founded experimental zones are not supported by necessary
funding.
(e)  Leadership and guidance need to be strengthened and it is necessary
to employ administrative means and set up specialized channels to
attract experts of all types to the work in the experimental zones.
2.16      The experimental zones have played an important role in the rural
reform in the past four years. We shall here mention some major aspects:
(i) standards of leadership in rural reform have been improved. The trail-
blazing work of the experimental zones have produced a great amount of
thought-provoking data and practical experience, contributing to more system-
atic and less one-sided understanding of rural reform. On this basis, policy-
making can be improved through verification of results. Policies will become
more concrete and standardized. Many of the successful experiments have been
introduced province-wide elsewhere in the country through widespread extension
work; some have been implemented on a national scale; (ii) the zones have
acted as a "reserve bank" for theory, policies and personnel. On the one
hand, the experimental zones have been the vanguard of the main body of
troops, but on the other they are the reserves in the refoiam battle order.
These reserves will come into full play in the days to come when rural reform
is again given the green light; (iii) the experimental zones have promoted the
economic development of the provinces and counties of which they are part, and
through these palpable results they have rallied the confidence of people in
reform and given great support to the process of all-around reform.
2.17      It should be pointed out that the World Bank's first-stage loan for
adjustment in the rural sector has been granted on the strength of the estab-
lishment of rural reform experimental zones, and its experts have made many
field investigation tours of the zones. These have played an instrumental
role in promoting work on rural reform experiments and on the reform and
development process of China's rural areas as a whole. We highly value this
excellent relationship in cooperation and expect that it will endure.



- 42 -
III. REFORM OF THE GRAIN PURCHASE AND SALES SYSTEM
Background and Problems
3.1       The grain purchase and sales system China has been practicing since
1985 is a "double-track" system which means that part of the grain purchase
and sales is put under the direct control of the government by administrative
means of a certain mandatory nature in order to maintain a stable supply while
the rest if carried out, independent of the government control, among the
producer, the conswner and the distributor. The latter is commodity exchange
in its true sense, regulated by market mechanisms. The basic ingredients of
the "double-track" system are: (i) the coexistence of the compulsory low-
price purchase of grains from farmers and their low-priced sale to consumers
by the government on the one hand and the market transaction in general on the
other; and (ii) the coexistence of governmental and nongovernmental agencies
in charge of grain circulation.
3.2       Over the recent years, a certain measure of agreement has been
reached on the necessity of the reform of the existing purchase and sales
system. But, as to how to effect the reform, there have remained several
difficult problems and concerns, for example: (i) what is the role model for
the system that suits China's specific conditions? (ii) how to keep the change
in the distributional pattern of national income in conformity with the bal-
ance of revenue and expenditure of the Government, while raising the grain
purchasing prices to bring about fair exchange with farmers? (iii) will the
rise in grain price touch off a general price hike? (iv) what if market prices
continue to climb after "covert subsidization is turned into overt subsidiza-
tion"? and etc.
3.3       In this context, the State Council approved in 1988 the establish-
ment of experimental zones for the reform of the grain purchase and sales
system in Xinxiang, Henan Province, and Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region. The purpose was to gain experiences and improve theories through
practice in regional reforms with a view to providing guidance and giving
impetus to the future national endeavor at the reform.
Evaluation of the Reform Experiment
3.4       It has been over two years since the reform began in Xinxiang, Henan
Province and Yulin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. During this period,
there appeared a nationwide violent fluctuation in grain supply and demand and
market prices. Considerable changes happened in the overall economic environ-
ment. Since the beginning of the reform, it has been smooth-going and moving
forward steadily. It has withstood fairly tigorous tests and has at least
yielded such positive results as follows:
(a) To a certain extent, it has ameliorated the situation where the
difference between State-set and market prices are exceedingly
great, thereby bringing the grain growers increased income.
(b) It has proved to be conducive to relieving difficulties with pur-
chase. Contract fixed-quota purchase has proceeded smoothly and
improved with each passing year.



dl
- 43 -
(c) Agricultural production in general and grain production in particu-
lar has registered a steady growth. Analysis shows that the steep
rise in output is directly due to the great expectations which the
soaring market prices across China towards the end of 1988 excited
the farmers. It is also due to the increase in farmers' income
which made it possible for them to increase inputs.
3.5       The reforming of the sales system has effectively changed the dis-
torted grain consumption behavior which occurred under the low-price ration
system. This has helped to reduce waste. Furthermore, as covert subsidiza-
tion is turned into overt subsidization, the grain consun4rs' saving is no
longer unused fixed quotas only but real money in their hands.
3.6       The adjustment and raising of agricultural taxes and the increase of
grain prices are linked to each other so that the prices and taxes are sepa-
rated. This represents a positive step and a new thinking. It may take
effect in two aspects: first, by shifting from "low price and light tax' to
"high price and heavy tax," it will be possible to guide production with real
product prices and urge rational utilization of resources with real resource
prices. Second, part of the revenue increase may, in the course of adjust-
ment, be turned over to grain growers.
3.7       The grain reform has brought about a change in the situation where
the public finance was bearing an increasingly heavy burden of subsidization.
It has also readjusted the interest distribution among the State, the consumer
and the producer.
(a)  In the past, grain price adjustment was mostly a one-way undertak-
inig, with purchasing prices changed only. The result was that only
the government's behavior was restrained. This has directly caused
an excessively heavy burden on public finance. The reforms in the
experimental zones have made a breakthrough in terms of adjustment.
In all these zones, whether in Yulin or Xinxiang, there has been
carried out a policy, in varying degrees, of simultaneous adjustment
of both purchasing and selling prices, substitution of overt subsi-
dization, separation of subsidies from prices and cost-sharing at
various levels. This policy is aimed at seeking a balanced budget
on their own while pushing forward with the reform.
(b) The cost-sharing arrangement has involved both enterprises and farm-
ers in bearing the consequences of the rise in grain pzoduction cost
and has readjusted the distribution of national income and trans-
ferred part of the income to farmers: (i) as far as the State is
concerned, it no longer bears alone all the cost entailed from one-
way price adjustment; (ii) for enterprises, the principle of having
agriculture help industry has been turned into that of having indus-
try help agriculture; (iii) with regard to consumers, adjustment of
prices for part of the grain has affected their interests in a cer-
tain degree.  But what is of far-reaching signifieance is the fact
that it has offered the individual businesses the opportunity to
bring their purchasing power into play. Moreover, it has helped to
get rid of egalitarianism and the tendency of exclusive stress on
material benefits manifested in the existing distribution system;
(iv) as for the producers, the reform has led to increase in their



- 44 _
income and, therefore, spurred their enthusiasm for grain produc-
tion.
3.8       Through the reform of the price subsidy system, a new principle of
subsidization has been instituted and the efficiency of subsidization has thus
been improved.
Plan for the Next Stage of Wfork
3.9       This year, the drive for improving the economic environment and
rectifying the economic order has entered its second year. In this context,
how to seize opportunities and create conditions to deepen the reform in an
active and steady manner is an issue of crucial importance. But, the trouble
is that all the experimental zones are faced with one common difficulty in
their reforms, namely, a sluggish market arising from the improvement and
rectification drive. The economic results of the enterprises in a number of
trades have drastically deteriorated. Despite some improvement in recent
tnonths, the situation remains quite grave. Enterprises and workers are still
hardly able to endure any significant price increase. This will become an
obstacle to the reform of the sales system.
3.10      The plan of the Xinxiang Experimental Zone for the next stage of
work:
(a)  Continue to raise the contract grain purchasing prices next year.
If the State is not planning a price increase in the near future,
Xinxiang will further advance the wheat price from Y 66 to Y 70 per
100 kg.
(b) Further push forward with the reforming of the sales system if con-
ditions are ripe. Judging from the current conditions, it is not
practical to shift all the increased burdens of subsidization onto
the enterprises. It is, therefore, desirable at present to take the
"turning-without-moving-forwerd" approach to the change "from covert
subsidization to overt subsidization." That is to say, the
increased income from the selling price rise will all be used to
subsidize urban residents. The increased cost can be borne by
enterprises in the future when their conditions improve. This
approach cannot help to cut down the burden of subsidization on the
finance offices and readjust the income distribution between the
urban and rural areas. But the "covert-to-overt" switch will cer-
tainly have the effect of encouraging people to save grain.
3.11      The tentative ideas Yulin has with regard to its recent work in the
reform:
(a) Further cut sales on ration at State-set prices.
(b) Increase appropriately the quality-based purchase-selling differ-
ence. The present difference at the 13 percent only is very irra-
tional. From now on, the selling price for top-grade rice may be
raised in the light of the average price difference in the market.
This can both satisfy the consumers' different needs and reduce the
subsidies provided by the State finance departments.



- 45 -
(c) Simplify the procedure of subsidization. The grain price subsidies
will be appraised and decided according to the family support coef-
ficient and included in the total sum of pay for cadres, staff and
workers as part of labor reproduction cost.
(d) Promote complementary reforms within the grain purchase and sales
section and enhance the vigor of grain-related enterprises.
(e) Stimulate further development of grain markets and enhance the gov-
ernment's power of adjustment and control. At present, it is neces-
sary to increasR efforts at the development of relevant regulations
governing the existing grain markets and a supporting system, and
speed up the construction of new markets. At the same time, the
government should guarantee the effectiveness of its adjustment and
control by providing more effective guidance in price, information,
circulation channels and other fields.
IV. EXPERIMENT IN LAND SYSTEM BUILDING
Background and Problems
4.1       The problem of the agricultural land system has always been at the
core of the formulation of China's rural policies, because adequate solution
of this problem provides the basic guarantee for agricultural growth.
4.2       The emergence of the household contractual responsibility system,
which was spontaneously initiated by farmers in 1979, represented a dramatic
change in the original policies and system. Its contribution to the extraor-
dinary growth of China's agriculture from 1979 to 1984 has already gained
utniversal recognition. However, the stagnation and fluctuation of China's
agricultural production (particularly in terms of the major categories of
agricultural produce) once again led to a debate over the efficiency of this
systeam.
4.3       The household contractual responsibility system adopts a contract
structure in which "the farmers are allowed to retain for their own disposal
all the grain left over after handing over set quotas to the state and the
collective." This not only guarantees the state and the collective the right
to a proper share in agricultural returns, but also guarantees the farmers, as
producers, the right to use the land and enjoy the returns therefrom.
4.4       However, the household contractual responsibility system is not the
answer to all problems found in China's agricultural growth. Putting aside
all the other institutional arrangements affecting farmers' conduct, the sys-
tem itself is bound by a series of constraints, suffering from a constant
increase in its operation costs and a decrease of itr incentive effectiveness.
Guiding Ideas for the Experiments and Program Design
4.5       A variety of land system provisions have appeared in different types
of rural areas in China, and five rural reform experimental zones, namely,
Meitan County of Guizhou Province, Pingdu County of Shandong Province, Wuxi



- 46 -
Municipality, Changshu County and Wuxian County of Jiangsu Province, Nanhai
County of Guangdong Province and Shunyi County of Beijing Municipality, have
already come to different sets of guiding ideas for the solution of their
problems arising out of the increase in the operating costs of the household
contractual responsibility system and according to their respective character-
istics.
Major Experiment Items and Progress in the Meitan Experimental Zone
4.6       The Meitan experimental zone is a typical traditional rural area in
China. More than 90 percent of its population are engaged in agricultural
activities, with a per capita farmland of 0.09 ha. Agricultural land is of
absolute importance to the farmers in Meitan County. Hence, experiment in
this area should focus on clarifying the principles of the collective owner-
ship of land and their functions, perfecting the farmers' land use rights and
stalilizing, through more effective system provisions, the farmers' prospects
of investment in land, so as to provide an institutional basis for the long-
term growtlh in agricultural production.
4.7       With respect to the ownership of land, it was made clear that vil-
lages are the basic unit entitled to the ownership of land. Village adminis-
trative offices were set up as authorities to contract land to the farmer
households.
4.8       With regard to the right to the use of land, regulations were made
in the following two aspects: (i) "no redistribution of land will be effected
in case of an increase in the number of persons of the farmer households,' a
new system provision through which the following four aspects of advantages
are aimed at: (a) to spare the cost originally entailed by the constant read-
justment of land distribution under the contractual responsibility system;
(b) to protect the farmland from fragmentation by constant readjustment of
land distribution; (c) to provide institutional guarantees for the farmers to
make reliable plans for the use of land and returns therefrom; and (d) to
control the rural population growth and to promote the nonagricultural trans-
fer of the people engaged in agricultural activities; (ii) the contracting
households are allowed to effect a nongratuitous transfer of land use right.
4.9       The Experiment on the Land Property Rights System.  (1) The concept
of the collective ownership of land has been clarified. This mainly includes
a clear explanation of the principle of land ownership and its implications,
imposition of land contractual fees, and strengthening the management over
land resources.  (2) A new stipulation has been introduced affirming that no
readjustment of land will be made within the contractual period (20 years)
upon increases or decreases in population, thereby severing the linkage
between population and redistribution of land, and solving once for all the
problem of the constant redistribution of land necessitated by population
changes. (3) The expansion of the land use rights, the right to inherit and
dispose of land (including the rights to transfer, subcontract and mortgage
land), has been effected. Besides, the certificate for the use of land is
introduced as providing the unified legal norm and institutional form for the
exercise of this particular right. The above-mentioned experiments started in
1988. On the basis of the results achieved from these experiments, two legal
documents were formulated in 1989, namely, "Tentative Rules of Meitan County
on the Management of Rural Collective Land Operations' and "Basic Regulations



- 47 -
of Meitan County on the Collection, Use and Management of Rural Land Contrac-
tual Fees." In 1990, the "Basic Rules of Meitan County on the Management of
Rural Collective Land" was adopted as the basic document in the county's land
legislation. This is a legal document of great and profound significance.
4.10       The Experiment in the Establishment of a Land Credit System.  A land
finance corporation was set up in Meitan County in 1988, the main task of
which was to provide, against a mortgage on land and other properties, invest-
ment credits for the development, transfer and improvement of agricultural
land, as well as other medium- and long-term agricultural investment credits.
A set of regulations on financial management and on mortgage and credit guar-
asitees were formulated, and some medium-term agricultural development credits
were provided.
4.11       The Development of Nonfarmland Resources.  To promote the develop-
ment of nonfarmland resources through the improvement of the land system is
another important aspect to the experiment carried out in the Meitan experi-
mental zone. Three basic principles have been formulated in this regard,
namely, an uneven distribution based on competitive bidding; the practice of
contractual or rental operation, with a regular period of 20 years and a maxi-
mum period of 50 years; development and operation oa a moderate economic
scale. Altogether, 7,467 mu were developed from the winter of 1988 to the
spring of 1989, and 4,400 mu from the winter of 1989 to the spring of 1990.
4.12       Rural Political Power Organ-Building at the Grassroots Level.  The
experiments carried out in this respect mainly aim at providing a sound orga-
nizational basis, as well as an adequate contingent of reliable cadres, for
the imlprovement of the land system. The major measure adopted has been the
establishment of village administrative offices as a subordinate organ with
authority delegated by the township government, exercising some general func-
tions of administrative management. Meanwhile, the village neighborhood com-
mittees formerly instituted at the administrative village level have been
lowered to the natural village level, and the original village neighborhood
groups were dissolved.
4.13       The Reform of the Grain Purchase and Sale System.  The central idea
of this reform is to ensure, on the one hand, the full payment of agricultural
tax (paid in kind according to the State-set prices), or in other words the
fulfillment of the state compulsory purchase of grain, and on the other hand,
to reduce the state grain purchases quota by 58 percent, so as to alleviate
the burden imposed on the farmers by the state in the form of grain price
taxes. At the same time, the amount of grain sold at subsidized and therefore
low prices in cities, towns and villages is to be minimized.
4.14       In the experiment zone of Pingdu County of Shandong Province, per
capita farmland is calculated at 2.2 mu. Although there has been rapid devel-
opment over the past few years in nonagricultural sectors, farmland still re-
mains the most significant source of income for the majority of farmers.
Therefore, the main idea of the experiment is to introduce the "two-tier" land
system, namely, a system which divides the farmland into "rations land", which
is evenly distributed among community members, and "responsibility land",
which is contracted through bidding.



- 48 -
Major Experiment Items and Progress in Pingdu Experimental Zone
4.15      In the experimental zone of Pingdu County of Shandong Province, per
capita farmland is calculated at 2.2 mu. Although there has been rapid devel-
opment over the past few years in nonagricultural sectors, farmland still
remains the most significant source of income for the majority of farmers.
Therefore, the main idea of the experiment is to introduce the "two-tier" land
system, namely, a system which divides the farmland into "rations land,' which
is evenly distributed among community members, and "responsibility land,"
which is contracted through bidding.
4.16      Land Improvement.  Land is the most essential prerequisite for the
realization of moderate-scale operation of land. Some remarkable achievements
have been made in Pingdu County over the past few years in the construction of
agricultural infrastructures, namely, the upgrading of land quality, road
construction, and the construction of water conservancy facilities in particu-
lar.
4.17      The Practice of the "Two-Tier System" of Land.  The central idea of
such a system is to divide the farmland in rations land, which is evenly dis-
tributed among farmer households according to the number of family members,
and responsibility land, which is contracted through bidding. The rations
land is only liable for agricultural tax, while the responsibility land, apart
from the agricultural tax, is also subject to the state grain purchase quotas
and land contracting fees. The contract period is five years, and the con-
tract can be renewed on a priority basis. At the same time, 3 percent of the
land has been put aside in reserve, in case some adjustment in land distribu-
tion is needed because of demographic changes. The experiment in Pingdu
County on the "two-tier system" was started in 1984, popularized in 1988, and
completed in 1989. So far, moderate-scale operation has been basically
achieved on the responsibility land.
4.18      Land System Building.  The main purpose of the experiments carried
out in this regard is to develop a complete system of strict land management.
These include the system for the protection of land resources, the system for
land assessment (including the grading of land, rewards for upgrading the land
and punishment for its degradation), and the system of land archives. This
experiment started in 1989. In 1990, more attention was given to its control
and implementation. So far, 1,402 villages have effected rewards for upgrad-
ing land and punishments for its degradation, involving more than 80 percent
of all the villages in the county.
4.19      The Rural Accumulation System.  The accumulation of funds in the
rural areas comes from such funds as the collective accumulation, labor accum-
ulation, households accumulation and farmer household housing construction
reserve funds. The township or village Cooperative Foundation is the govern-
ing body responsible for the management of the accumulated funds. These funds
are mainly used in the development of agricultural infrastructures (including
land development, the construction of water conservancy works, road and power
stations), in the purchase of agricultural machinery and in the popularization
of agricultural techniques.
4.20      The Agricultural Service System.  The main idea of the effort to
develop an agricultural service system is to establish, both at the township



- 49 -
level and at the village level, a series of service organizations in the field
of agriculture techniques, agricultural machinery, water conservancy, animal
husbandry, the purchase and sale of agricultural produce, and the supply of
goods for agricultural production. The experiment in this regard started in
1989 and was popularized in 1990. So far, 45 comprehensive agricultural ser-
vice centers and 468 agriculture service stations have been set up at the
township level, involving a working staff of 4,739 people. At the village
level, a variety of agricultural service teams and service shops engaged in
the purchase and sale of agricultural goods have been set up.
Malor Experiment Items and Progress Achieved in the Experimental Zones of
Wuxi, Changshu and Wuxian in south Jiangsu Province
4.21      Compared with other agricultural areas in China, the experiment zone
of Wuxi, Changshu and Wuxian in southern Jiangsu Province can be regarded as
the most developed rural area in China, experiencing in recent years a very
rapid expansion of its TVEs. An overwhelming majority of its original agri-
cultural labor force has already moved into nonagricultural sectors, resulting
in a drastic reduction of the importance of agroland economy to both the farm-
ers and the local government. On the one hand, this has greatly increased the
opportunity cost of agricultural input in this region; on the other hand, the
extremely low comparative advantage of agriculture, together with an unchanged
state purchase quota, has seriously affected the farmers' enthusiasm in agri-
cultural activities. Therefore, in face of these constraints, the southern
Jiangsu experiment zones are trying to realize the modernization of agricul-
ture through the concentration of land at the village level, an increase in
machinery input and the establishment of a socialized agricultural service
system.
4.22      During the experiment, a gradual process of discreetly spreading the
trial measures from a few chosen spots to the whole zone is advocated, and the
choices made by the village organizations, as principals of scale operation,
are fully respected. A series of studies have been conducted on the prerequi-
site for the experiment, setting of targets for scale returns, various options
for machinery composition and perfection of fully-developed infrastructures,
so as to provide a basis, in both theory and practice, for the optimal compo-
sition of production elements, establishment of principals of scale operation
and fostering of proper contractual relationships between farmers engaged in
scale operations on the one hand and the village organizations on the other.
4.23      The Moderate-Scale Operation of Land.  The experiment carried out in
this regard mainly focuses on two aspects: (i) to promote a steady and grad-
ual development of the moderate-scale operation of land in a number of model
towns and villages; and (ii) to promote the moderate-scale operation in the
remote areas and on barren land. For this purpose, the following measures
were adopted in the southern Jiangsu experimental zones: (iii) practice the
"two-tier system"; and (iv) minimize the area of rations land and maximize the
area of responsibility land, so as to gradually realize the moderate-scale
operations.
Major Experiment Items and Progress Achieved in the Nanhai Experimental Zone
4.24      Moderate-Scale Operation.  Experiment in the moderate-scale opera-
tion of grain fields started in Nanhai County in 1987, but was confined to



- 50 -
mainly five pilot villages. Due to certain obstacles encountered between 1989
and 1990, the experiment has now been moved onto the nongrain fields. This
mainly refers to the large-scale central contractual development of slopes and
hills and water surfaces.
4.25      Land System Building.  In 1989, a general program was formulated for
the experiments in land system building, the central theme of which was to
reaffirm the collective ownership of land, prop up the farmer households'
right to the use of land and apply strictly all stipulations concerning the
right to land management. In 1990, measures concerning the contracted opera-
tion of farmland through bidding and the imposition of land contractual fees
were put into operation.
4.26      Improving the Agricultural Service System.  A variety of measures
have been taken to improve the services provided by the collective in mecha-
nized farming, irrigation and drainage works, plant protection, raising of
rice seedlings, supply of agricultural goods, etc. In this way, by providing
diversified services to the farmer households engaged in scattered operations,
a measure of economy of scale could be achieved outside the limits of land
operation itself. Work in this respect has been going on quite smoothly from
1988 to 1990.
4.27      The Establishment of Agricultural Development Funds.  The "Regula-
tions on the Establishment of Agricultural Development Funds" was promulgated
and put into effect in 1989. Altogether Y 69,980,000 was raised in the same
year for the establishment of the funds. At the same time, a system of con-
tribution by labor by the farmer households was introduced, by which
Y 14,500,000 worth of labor was contributed to the funds. The experiment has
been continued in 1990.
4.28      Experiments in Agricultural Mechanization.  Nanhai County enjoys a
relatively high level of agricultural mechanization, having realized mechani-
zation in a number of basic technical procedures such as farming, irrigation
and drainage, threshing, and processing. However, with regard to some key
technical procedures such as transplanting, harvesting, plant protection and
grain drying, mechanization is still at a very low level. Experiments were
started in 1988 on mechanized operation in these key technical procedures, and
a target was set for the mechanization of the entire process of grain produc-
tion. Experiments in this field have been carried on in 1989 and 1990.
4.29      Rural Political Power Organ Building at the Grassroots Level.  The
experiment in this regard started in 1989. Its main idea is to dissolve the
original villagers' committees at the administrative village level and rees-
tablish them at the natural village level. Meanwhile, the original villagers'
groups at the natural village level were dismantled. At the administrative
village level, administrative zone offices (corresponding to village adminis-
trative offices) were set up as the subordinate organs delegated to act for
the township government (corresponding to "xiang" or township governments).
In 1990, attention was given mainl: to its institutional organizational devel-
opment.



- 51 -
Major Experiment Items and Progress Achieved in the Shunyi County Experimental
Zone
4.30      Unlike In the above-mentioned experiment zones, the experiment car-
ried out in Shunyi County of Beijing Municipality follows a different pattern
in that the county government takes the initiative in organizing its imple-
mentation, and that by means of administrative intervention, large collective
farms have been set up in order to realize the rapid and large-scaled concen-
tration of land. The experiment contains the following aspects: (1) to iden-
tify the ways of land concentration, namely, to take back and pool together
land which was originally contracted to
(a) those presently working in TVEs; contracting workers working away
from the community with long-term fixed income; and individual
households engaged in industrial and commercial activities;
(b)  people who have lost their ability to work on land;
(c) specialized houReholds that have long been engaged in stock-breeding
or poultry farming, forestry and in the production of cash crops;
(2) to adequately solve the problems left over from the concentration of land,
such as the employment of those who have lost their land, providing them with
rations, etc.; (3) to set up collective farmns o- different kinds on the con-
centrated land; (4) to enhance agricultural investment, promote mechanized
agriculture, and to further consolidate the material and technical basis for
the collective farms.
4.31      Altogether, 613 collective farms and 594 tean,s were set up in 1987.
In 1989, they were further merged and combined into 193 collective farms,
which were all set up across village boundaries. Then in the same year, after
some reorganization and adjustment, they were again split into 497 collective
farms. Except for one farm that straddled village boundaries, all the other
farms were set up with the village as their basic units. Of all the 497 col-
lective farms, only 116 have adopted centralized ways of management, account-
ing and distribution, while the other 381 were turned into coordinated farms
where farming was carried out in a centralized way, contracts were signed
according to labor force and accounting was settled on a household basis.
They accounted for 76.7 percent of all the farms, operating 83.3 percent of
all the land of the county, and forming the mainstay of the collective farms.
4.32      The following work has been done for the improvement and consolida-
tion of the collective farms: (i) With regard to the 116 substantive collec-
tive farms, emphasis is on further improvement of the internal farm work con-
tract system. Measures taken in this regard (a) contracting the land to teams
or individual farmers and paying remuneration according to output;
(b) strengthening labor management, contracting processes of farm work, and
setting up management quotas; (c) applying a strict system of rewarding over-
fulfillment of production quota and punishing shortfalls in output; (d) estab-
lishing inside the farms strict cost accounting and fiscal systems. (ii) With
regard to the 381 cooperative farms, emphasis is on the realization of cen-
tralized coordination and services. In terms of farming plans, irrigation,
mechanized farming, technical measures and grain distribution. (iii) In the
first six months of 1989, the macroeconomic policy of improving the economic



- 52 -
environment and rectifying the economic order adopted by the central govern-
ment had confronted some township enterprises with the questions of reorganiz-
ing their business or to change their products.
A Brief Analysis of the Major Experiments
4.33      Government Intervention Constitutes the Main Driving Force in the
Experiments on Institutional Developmetnt. The experiments in land system
building and moderate-scale operation of land all include some basic institu-
tional changes, during the process of which government intervention is
strongly felt. Owing to the different characteristics of government interven-
tion involved, these institutional changes are divided into two types, namely,
compulsory institutional changes, as in the case of the Meitan, Pingdu and
Shunyi experimental zones, and induced institutional changes, as in the case
of the southern Jiangsu and Nanhai experimental zones.
4.34      Compulsory institutional changes have the following characteristics:
(i) Definite targets are set up. The target setup for the Meitan experimental
zone is to establish a definite and complete land system, including arrange-
ments for its ownership, transfer and management. That for the Pingdu experi-
mental zone is to realize moderate-scale operation on the 'responsibility
land" and establish a system of strict land management. In the case of the
Shunyi experimental zone, t.he aim is to set up collective farms. (ii) The
changes are pushed through by compulsory means. Government intervention,
which is coercive in nature, has always been the driving force in starting up
and continuously pushing forward these compulsory institutional changes. The
implementation of experiments in Meitan, Pingdu and Shunyi on the building of
a land system and moderate-scale operation has, since the very outset, been
directly enforced by the County governments concerned. (iii) Different means
of enforcement are adopted. The means adopted by the Meitan experimental zone
in its intervention is to introduce, in a centralized way, a series of insti-
tutional norms and the rules for their functioning, for instance, the institu-
tional norms concerning land property rights, land market, land mortgage and
land credit; and the institutional forms taken by these norms as well as the
procedures for their functioning. These are tantamount to land legislation.
In the Pingdu and Shunyi experimental zones, government intervention is car-
ried out through the formulation of an overall program, which is then put into
compulsory implementation. For instance, the program for the implementation
of the 'two-tier system' of land formulated in Pingdu County and the program
for the establishment of collective farms formulated in Shunyi County were all
put into practice in a coercive way. Such coercive intervention is very
effective in the establishment of basic land system norms and their finction-
ing rules, rapid reorganization of the pattern of small-scale opera*on of
evenly distributed land, realization of moderate-scale operation of land, and
establislhment of collective farms.
4.35      The induced institutional changes in the southern Jiangsu experimen-
tal zones and Nanhai County, however, have some different characteristics:
(i) A series of complicated targets are set up. In the case of the three
zones in southern Jiangsu Province, two targets were set up, namely, moderate-
scale operation of land and agricultural modernization, including the moderni-
zation of agricultural techniques, organization and management. The targets
set for the Nanhai experimental zone were, firstly, moderate-scale operation
of grain fields, and the, of nongrain fields, which also contained a number of



- 53 -
technical and organizational implications. (ii) A prolonged process is
expected. Although organizational reconstruction can be completed rapidly,
technical development, however, takes time and a prolonged process can be
expected. This requires continuous intervention on the part of the govern-
ment, in the form of continuous policy guidance as well as efforts at organi-
zation and coordination. With regard to such institutional changes having a
large number of organizational, technical and management implications, govern-
ment intervention of an inducing nature is found to be very effective.
4.36      An Institutional Cycle has been Initially Formed, Connecting the
Land System, Ways of Management and Organizational System.  The implementation
of the experiments has resulted in a number of achievements in institutional
and organizational development. With regard to the land system, a complete
set of arrangements have been made, including those for land property rights,
credit, transfer and management; in land operation, various forms of moderate-
scale operation have been developed; in the organizational system, village and
community cooperative organizations, political power organs (village adminis-
trative offices), villagers' autonomous organizations and agricultural service
organizations have been formed. The institutional system, organizational
system and ways of operation have, both in logic and in their functioning,
formed a kind of institutional cycle. In Meitan County where the economy was
relatively backward and agricultural technical development was still at a low
level, small-scale household operation constitutes the dominating pattern of
agricultural operation. Therefore, experiments on the development of land
system carried out here are only designed for such a pattern of household
operation. Village administrative offices were set up in accordance with the
experiments in land system and the household operation pattern, and together,
they formed a harmonious institutional cycle. In the Pingdu experimental zone
where the level of economic and technical development was relatively high,
collective economy and household operation were given equal importance in the
economic activities. The strict provisions for land management and moderate-
scale operation of land and the fully developed systems of village and commu-
nity organs and of agricultural services have also formed a harmonious insti-
tutional cycle. In Shunyi County where economic and technical development are
at a high level and TVEs are highly developed, collective operation has played
a dominating part in the economic activities. An integrating institutional
cycle has also been formed between the collective farms and the village and
community organs. The formation and functioning of these institutional cycles
prove that significant progress has been made in the work of these experimen-
tal zones, and some substantive institutional and organizational results have
been achieved.
4.37      Significant Results have been Achieved in Dealing with the Compli-
cated Relationship between Population and Land Resources. After three years
of continuous exploration in the experimental zones, important headway has
been made and significant results have already been achieved in alleviating
and solving the problems deriving from the tense relationship between popula-
tion and land resources.
4.38      With the new institutional structure established in the Meitan
experimental zone, the follewing progress has been made in this respect:
(i) Wlile the basic pattern of even distribution of land and household opera-
tion is affirmed, the natural linkage between population changes and redistri-
bution of land has been severed by the adoption of the policy of no redistri-



- 54 -
bution of land to suit population changes within 20 years. In this way, land
movement has been freed from the original constraints of population change and
thereby turned into an independent process of resource reorganization.
(ii) Regarding the development of nonfarmland resources, a policy of uneven
distribIution was adopted from the very outset, by which the development of the
nonfarmland resources was contracted through open bidding, thereby breaking
its inherent linkage with population and fornming finally an independent pro-
cess of resource distributioni, flow and reorganization. At the same time, a
new field of employmetnt was created for the increased population. (iii) With
the establishment of the new institutional structure, the subsequent movement
and reorgarnization of land (including the already developed nonfarmland) are
carried out by way of transfers in the land market, and thus totally freed
from population and its changes.
4.39      In the Pingdu experimental zone, however, this problem was solved by
the formnulation of a unified series of policies, with the collective as the
intermediary unit. (i) Land is divided into two parts, namely, "rations land"
(including a small amount of land in reserve) and "responsibility land." The
rations land is evenly distributed according to the population and will be
constantly redistributed according to population changes. With regard to the
"responsibjility land," however, the linkage between its distribution and popu-
lation was broken from the very outset by introducing a means of uneven dis-
tribution, with the operation of land contracted through open bidding. There-
fore, the linkage between population and the distribution of land resources
has been confined to a relatively linmited scope, affecting only the rations
land. (ii) Any changes in the distribution of land (including subcontracting)
after the responsibility land has been contracted should be carried out with
the village or community organs as intermediaries and by way of open bidding
and contracting the land to the most qualified people. This, again, will have
no linkage with population changes. (iii) The surplus population will be
employed, on a selective basis, in areas of nonland operations, so as to alle-
viate the employment pressure exerted on land distribution by the changes in
population.
4.40      The Shunyi experimental zone, however, adopted a number of more
drastic measures, by which the relationship between population and land was
completely broken. The linkage between land distribution and population was
denied, and land distribution and its changes were all freed from population
and its changes. Land was put under the planning and operation by the collec-
tive farms. The distribution of land and the changes in it were turned into a
process of resource distribution and composition. Grain and other agricul-
tural products were supplied to the rural population according to the central-
ized plan drawn up by the village and community organs. Excessive rural popu-
lation would then be employed by the village and community organs in a cen-
tralized manner in areas of nonland operations.
Problems Encountered and Some Basic Ideas for their Solution
4.41      After three years of experiment, a number of important items still
fall short of the original target, and at the same time, many problems and
difficulties have been encountered in the experiment, which is now enduring
great pressure.



- 55 -
4.42      The experiment items which have yet to realize their expected tar-
gets include mainly the experiments on the land transfer system in Meitan
County and the moderate-scale operation on grain fields in Nanhai County. The
major obstacles faced by Meitan County in its experiment on the land transfer
system are mainly the following: (i) On the one hand, farmnland resources are
too scarce for them to enter into the transfer market. (ii) Conditions are
not ripe for the introduction of land mortgage loans, therefore this has not
been put into large-scale practice. Only a very limited amount of land has
been put under the land credit system. (iii) In the initial program design,
the possible constraints and difficulties in the experiment on the land trans-
fer system were underestimated, and therefore some impossible targets were
set. In the case of the experiment on moderate-scale operation on grain
fields carried out in Nanhai County, the main obstacle comes from the state
grain purchase system. The state grain purchasing quota set for Nanhai County
is 600 jin per mu of grain fields, accountinig for more than 40 percent. of the
output. With a considerable amount of grain retained for consumption by the
farmers, only a very limited amount of grain can be brought to the market.
Therefore, the burden incurred by grain field operation is too heavy, and the
farmers do not have such interest in expanding the operation scale of the
grain fields. There was underestimated during the original program design and
therefore unpractical targets were decided upon.
4.43      The main problems and difficulties encountered by the Meitan experi-
mental zone: (i) The resource basis for the experiment on the land system is
extremely weak. This is caused by the scarcity of farmland resources and by
the constraints of a limited development scale of nonfarmland resources.
(ii) The experiment on the development of the land system has met with great
pressure coming from population changes and demand for jobs. Future develop-
ment of the experiment is difficult, therefore is very hard to push forward.
The same is true for the experiment carried out in the Pingdu experimental
zone on moderate-scale operation. Besides, concerning the experiments on the
land management, agricultural service and agricultural accumulative system,
great efforts will have to be made in their implementation, supervision and
improvement. In the southern Jiangsu experimental zone where the experiments
on the moderate-scale operation and agricultural modernization are to be fur-
ther pushed forward, there is a need for increased inputs of human, material
and financial resources, and therefore they are also facing great pressures.
In all the experimental zones of Meitan, Pingdu, southern Jiangsu, Nanhai and
Shunyi, further development of the experiments on land system and mtoderate-
scale operation has met with great pressures and many difficulties. There-
fore, it is necessary for the government to improve its organizational, man-
agement and coordinating abilities in the experiment, and its abilities to
mobilize the needed resources.
V. THE EXPERIMENT IN RURAL ECONOMIC COOPERATIVES
5.1       The rural economic cooperatives at the grassroots level are devel-
oped to reach two objectives. One objective is to organize more than 200
million farmer households of decentralized management to cope with market
risks and cooperate in areas of production and management suitable for scale
economy so as to alleviate market fluctuations resulting from centralized
demanld and scattered supply of agricultural products. The other one is to



- 56 -
bring into play the management function of government organs at the grassroots
level so that such fundamental work as family planning, social security, edu-
cation and health are taken care of and state purchase of part of the agricul-
tural products at low prices is ensured. Therefore, the cooperatives designed
in the projects should not be idealized ones organized along Rochdale princi-
ples. The actual rural situation in China must be taken into account. The
rural cooperatives should have Chinese characteristics implementing the policy
of combiniing centralized and decentralized management on two levels.
Principles for Cooperative Building and the Main Elements of the Experiment
5.2       The experiment in cooperative building is designed and carried out
according to the following basic principles.
(a) The independent property status of farm households and rural enter-
prises as principals in rural economy should be guaranteed.
(b)  Cooperatives should be regarded as the separate basic stratum of
grassroots management principals and restructured accordingly.
(c)  A key link in the development of cooperatives is to set up an accum-
ulation and a distribution system clearly defined with relevant
internal property rights and duties. The structure of the coopera-
tives, either communal or specialized, should correspond to their
internal property rights and duties relationships.
(d) Cooperatives are only set tip in those spheres of production and
management which are suited to the economy of scale such as finance,
purchase and sale, hydraulic power, crop protection, farm machinery,
and farming technology.
(e)  One person, one vote remains the basis of the whole decision-making
mechanism. It is the basic guarantee for democracy inside the coop-
eratives, and supervision by the public. However, in traditional
rural communities, community leaders and decisions on public affairs
are produced after a screening and balancing process by farmers who
are closely bound by blood and geographical relationships according
to ethical standards and clan or faction interests. By this pro-
cess, organizational and supervisory expenses are saved. Therefore,
the system of one person, one vote and democratic management should
be implemented step by step.
5.3       Main elements in the experiments In Shangzhi city, Heilongjiang;
Yut'an county, Hebei; Liquan county, Shaanxi:
(a)  The project for Shangzhi, Heilongjiang province includes four parts:
the farmers' specialized societies, cooperative fund-raising socie-
ties, specialized development companies at the municipal level and
training centers for specialized societies. The focus of the proj-
ect is to organize specialized production societies in fully "liber-
alized" areas and set up development companies to strengthen the
societies' ability to engage in dialogue as a group and develop
their economic strength.



- 57 -
(b)  The f-cus of the projects in Yutian county and Liquan county is on
the deveiopment of community cooperatives at the xiang and village
levels. Different names have been given to the cooperatives at
these two levels. As principals enjoying the property rights of the
collectively-owned land in the community, the cooperatives inherit
the assets of the original collective economy, and reclarify their
property and distribution relationship with farm households and
rural enterprises.  On the one hand, cooperatives, on behalf of the
government, provide planning of and control over agricultural pro-
duction (food production in particular) through allocation of the
means of production at the official parity prices. On the other
hand, they provide the farmers with various service items concerning
their production and management.
5.4       The development and improvement of the cooperatives constitute the
basis for building the whole socialized agricultural service system. This
system consists of three componentss
(a)  Self-serv:.Lce through the cooperatives.  In the process of their
organization, the cooperatives should develop their service items
and set up service systems.
(b) Nongratuitous service concerning finance, sales and supply, crop
protection, farm machinery and farm water conservancy facilities
provided by relevant enterprises and institutions.
(c) Service concerning information, technology, training and policy
guidance provided by such gevernment organs as those in charge of
agricultural administration, industrial and commercial management
and animal husbandry.
Implementation and Monitoring
5.5       Organization Building of the Cooperatives.  The specialized economic
cooperatives in Shangzhi, Heilongjiang, were essentially set up according to
the Rochdale principles. They are called farmers' specialized associations.
These associations cover such areas of relatively highly specialized produc,
tion and management as forestry, fruit-tree planting, animal husbandry, bee-
keeping, vegetable-raising, mining and timber processing. Boards of direc-
tors, supervising committees and other executives were all directly elected at
the general assembly of the cooperative members. More then 50 percent of the
cooperatives at the village level have formulated rules and regulations and
worked out rules for membership. Out of 346 villages in the municipality, 200
have set up specialized production associations, and 189 have developed spe-
cialized production villages. Since 1989, specialized associations involved
in grain production have been developing very quickly. By 1990, 484 grain
producers' associations have been set up at the village level or below with
3,296 mutual-help groups under them involving 47,800 households.
5.6       The rural specialized cooperatives in Shangzhi county have developed
to the municipal level. By the end of 1989, six federations of farmers' spe-
cialized associations and trade associations at the municipal level were set
up involving such areas as fruit and ginseng, raising cow-breeding, timber



- 58 -
processing, sand and stone, abrasives, and cooperative fund-raising societies.
These associations have the same structure as those at the grassroots level.
5.7       In the experimental zone of Yutian, Hebei Province, community coop-
eratives were set up from above. By the end of 1989, in all the villages and
townships of Yutian, cooperatives had been set up at the village and township
levels with the participation of all the adult farmers. In November 1990, a
community cooperative at the county level was set up in Yutian.
5.8       In Liquan county, Shaanxi Province, cooperatives at regional and
village levels were first set up on a trial basis in selected areas and then
extended to the whole county. In the period of three years, 780 cadres were
sent to villages and regions in four batches to help in the establishment of
the cooperative organizations and the preparation of rules and regulations.
By the end of 1989, community cooperatives had been set up in 12 out of the 20
xiang and townships, and 410 out of the 432 villages.
5.9       The System Concerning Property Rights.  In the initial stage of the
development of grassroots cooperatives in the three experimental zones, either
communal or specialized, efforts were made to identify property rights and
duties of relevant parties and to set up a property systems. The stocks sys-
tem was applied in the specialized cooperatives in Shangzhi and Liquan. The
proportion of dividend to stock was under restriction. The surplus was dis-
tributed in proportion to the amount of business carried on by farmers with
the cooperatives.
5.10      In the community cooperatives at the village level in Yutian and
Liquan, the property of the collective was first of all checked up and the
accounts made public. Thz property of the collective in the period of the
people's conmunues now belonged to the cooperatives. The relationship between
the cooperatives and the farmers in terms of land, production facilities, and
debt assets and liabilities was identified. On this basis, an accumulation
system was set up and the contracting system for different industries and
trade further improved. Retention was collected from farmers involved in all
areas, agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, sideline production, fishery,
industry, commerce, construction, transportation and service. With contracted
land size and contracting fees checked up and regularized, the number of work
days for labor accumulation stipulated (15 to 30 days for each farm worker per
year) and debts recovered for the establishment of a cooperative fund, funds
were collected and accumulated to increase the economic strength of the coop-
eratives.
5.11      Land System.  In the three experimental zones, land contracts were
checked up and adjustment made in the size of the contracted land and the
amount of retention after the cooperatives were set up. In Shangzhi, it was
made clear that in the 15 years after the land contracts were adjusted and
signed, contracted acreage would remain unchanged despite possible growth or
reduction of population and the consequewmt change of labor force. Funds for
public welfare and management fees were merged into funds for overall manage-
ment which in turn were collected according to the number of people in each
household. Funds for acctumulation were collected in the form of land con-
tracting fees according to the size and quality of land concerned. In Yutian
county, 674 villages have adjusted the size of contracted land. The average
number of plots contracted to each household dropped from 10.8 to 3.9. Cer-



- 59 -
tificates were issues to all contractors by regional management stations. At
the same time, it was made clear that with the chanige of population in the
future, adjustment in the size of land will only be made in the books. Farm-
ers wltose land size is reduced in the books should pay a certain amount of
extra money (and sell an extra amount of grain to the state). In Liquan, the
focus of the management of the land contracting system is to highlight the
right of the cooperatives to own, possess, use and manage land and punish
those who do not use land properly. Farmers have the right to use land only
under unified planniing and management, and upon effective fulfillment of the
contracts. Cooperatives can make adjustments in the use of land for large-
area specialized production to gain scale benefits.
5.12      Service System.  Services are developed in all kinds of cooperatives
and a system is being set up.  In Yutian, plans of services develepment have
been prepared for 41 township cooperatives and 750 village ones by 1990. One
hundred twenty thousand farmers have signed service contracts with the cooper-
atives. Two hundred seventy-two service organizations with 720 staff members
have been set up by township cooperatives and 2,186 organiizations with 4,640
staff members by village cooperatives. In Liquan, there are already 22 serv-
ice organs at the county level, 99 at the township level, 852 at the village
level, and 4,040 rural demonstration households. In Shangzhi, 230 village
specialized cooperatives, 97 percent of all the cooperatives, provide their
members with such services as information, technology, capital, and purchase
and sales, 77 stations for specialized services have been set up at the town-
ship level. Eight specialized development companies and six specialized pro-
duction associations at the municipal level have developed sound service capa-
cities.
Design of Monitoring
5.13      Since these projects are comparable, a generally similar effect
index system was used in all the monitoring plans to reflect the demand for
iifferent organizational structures by farmers at different levels of economic
development, the difference or the change in the behavior of the cooperatives
and in the evaluation of the cooperatives. Standardized questionnaires were
produced and separate sample tests conducted with the PPS method among all
farming population in the three zones. Specialized investigative organs were
invited for monitoring and analysis to ensure the accuracy of the data evalua-
tion and the objectiveness of the assessment.
Analysis of Monitoring
5.14      The indices from the experimental zones are reported to higher
autlhorities. Accordinig to the implementation indices and environment indices
reported by the three experimental zone offizes, the cooperatives have set up
sound organizations and systems, developed their economic strength, expanded
service items, and effectively protected the interests of the farmers, thereby
meeting the set targets.
5.15      In Shangzhi, the associations have been greatly strengthened in
their ability to have dialogue as a group. They have already engaged iP
direct negotiations with the provincial governments on matters concerning
farmers' interests. They play a dominant role in the development of protec-
tive purchase prices, in ensuring reinvestment of part of the processing



- 60 -
income, and in the negotiations with enterprises. Many activists have emerged
in farmers' cooperatives. In Yutian, the economic strength of the coopera-
tives at the village and townslhip levels developed continuously. In 1989, 480
village enterprises were set up, an increase of 79 over the previous year.
The cooperatives developed the rural economy by solving problems which indi-
vidual farm households cannot cope with. In 1989, the total grain output of
the county reached 327,363 tons, averaging 372 kg per mu, an increase of 3.8
percent and 3 percent respectively over 1988. The average per capita income
increased to Y 630, 5.4 percent more than the previous year. The cooperatives
promoted the growth of the rural economy in Liquan county by improving the
conditions for rural production and management. In 1989, grain output reached
413,300,000 jitl, the highest record in the county. Average per capita net
income for the farmers reached Y 509, 11.4 percent more than in 1988.
VI. EXPERIMENTS IN BUILDING UP A TVE SYSTEM
Background and Problems
6.1       Since 1978, China's township and village enterprises (TVEs) have
been developing at an unusually high speed, resulting in a rapid expansion of
nonagricultural output value and total volume of assets in the countryside.
The fast growth of TVEs is connected with the expansion of greater market
leverage in the wake of the decade-long reform and with the policies by the
government to encourage the farmers to boost their income and improve their
livelihood. The significance of the development of TVEs has been widely con-
firmed and appreciated. However, it has to be noted that in the course of
this development, some contradictions and problems have also gradually piled
up, which will probably stunt future growth. These problems are partly due to
the fact that the market-oriented TVEs are in contlict and friction with the
outmoded system, while the government suffers from a lack of experience as to
how to manage the nonstate economy and how to provide it with a fertile policy
and legal environment for its rapid growth.
Ideas and Programs for the Experiments
6.2       The purpose of building up a system of TVEs is to define the pro-
perty rights of enterprise and standardize the transaction rules of and policy
environment in line with the basic norms of a modern comnodity economy. In a
certain sense, this is also the issue to be addressed by the urban and state-
run enterprises in their reform efforts. Although it is universally acknow-
ledged that TVEs are more dynamic because they suffer less interference by the
state planning. Yet, it should not be overlooked that in the prevailing
unique corporate hierarchy in China, it is those less-controlled enterprises
that are usually having the most shaky foundation in terms of organization and
system. Therefore, when the primary stage of drastic and explosive develop-
ment of TVEs is passed, there is a greater urgency and need for having a sound
foundation in respect of organization and system for the next stage of TVE
development.
6.3       On the basis of the ideas stated above, we selected Fuyang, Wenzhou
and Zhoucun of Shandong province as three experimental zones. They represent
three different types of the local development models of TVEs. Among them,



- 61 -
Wenzhou is well known for the raplid development of private enterprises in
recent years. It represents a type of TVE development in the commercially
developed coastal areas (such as Guangdong and Fujian). Zhoucun (under the
city of Zibuo, Shandong) represent the type of TVE development in suburban
areas where farmers enjoy the employment opportunities created by the urban
economy, and also the relatively sound foundation of collective economy, while
Fuyang is typically a traditionally agricultural region. It is far from
cities, and its economic structure is characterized by the salient features of
a pre-in(dustrial society.  The mode of TVE development here is broadly repre-
sentative of China's vast central and western regions.
6.4       In light of the actual conditions of these three regions, different
and specific programs were formulated and implemented.  In Wenzhou, emphasis
was placed on the provision of legal protection and norms for the development
of private enterprises. In the first stage of the experiment, certain local
administrative laws and regulations were promulgated at all levels. In
Zhoucun, the experiment centered around the system-building within the enter-
prises. Prior attention was paid to the summarization of experiences from the
practice of installing a shareholding system, and then the extension of the
successful experiences to other types of TVEs, while in Fuyang zone, the
experiment was characterized by the combination of system-building efforts
both inside and outside the enterprise. Twenty experimental projects in two
Ihatches were carried out successfully, covering almost all the areas of TVE
developmenit.
Progress in the Work of the Experimental Zones
(a) Zhoucun
6.5       When Zhoucun was designated as an experimental zone for rural reform
upon the approval by the State Council in February 1988, it decided on the
experiments in six areas: (i) clearly defining the ownership of assets,
rationally determining share ownership, establishing an assets management
system; (ii) publicizing the model rules for different types of stockholding
cooperative enterprises (hereaftr,r referred to as SHCEs); (iii) setting up a
system for the distribution of accumulated profits and determining the method
of claiming dividends by shares in SHCEs; (iv) bettering the management of
these enterprises, standardizing the management of such enterprises by admin-
istrations at xiang and village levels; (v) exploring an assets-handling pro-
cedure of and a compensatory approach in case of loss and bankruptcy; and
(vi) setting up stock exchanges, and devising methods of stock management.
6.6       In practicing the SHCE system, three steps were taken:  (i) intro-
ducing the elements of the SHCE system such as risk mortgage, inspection and
auditing of assets, and corporate merger into the parental body of the con-
tractual responsibility system, to create necessary conditions for a smooth
transition; (ii) through the v-rification of capital and assets, establishing
a regime of separate accounts to determine the share ownership and the legal
representative of the property owners. On this basis, moving further to share
subscription and share expansion and developing different types of SHCEs; and
(iii) summing (tp experiences, making rules and regulations, and extending the
standardized SHCE system in an all-round way.



- 62 -
6.7       In Zhoucun, after two years of efforts, the work progressed from
field study to formulation of programs, from extensive mobilization to desig-
nation of experiment subjects, from physical operation to monitoring, analysis
and theoretical research, from small scale to full scale, the experiments were
also extended from TVEs to other businesses such as rural department stores,
forestry and fruit and breeding industries.
6.8       Upon entering the 1990s, the work in Zhoucun Zone includes mainly:
(i) Summing up successful experiences in order to give incentives to those
models. Experiences about SHCEs from nine different models at differelnt
levels were summed up and extended through the seminars on the spot, to fur-
ther the experiments in the whole zone. (ii) Giving more effective leadership
to the experiments and exchanges of experiences. The zone committee reshuf-
fled and fortified the leading group (from the original 5 to the current 14
members).  The same was donie at lower levels and the brochure about the
"exchange of work experiences in the experimental zone" was compiled and dis-
tributed to make the leaders at different levels more knowledgeable and better
equipped. (iii) Speeding up the formulation of rules and regulations in the
zone. Three draft proposals--"the detailed regulations about the SHCE system
for TVEs in Zhoucun zone," 'provisional regulations on assets evaluation and
conversion into shares for SHCEs in Zhoucun zone," and "proposals for the
regulatory income tax on dividends and bonuses of SHCEs in Zhoucun zone' are
under full consideration and discussion. (iv) Setting up a monitoring system
to exercise overall supervision over these new enterprises. Early this year,
Zhoucun people, in cooperation with the Center for Statistical Analysis at the
People's University, spent 42 days studying samples, as a result, over 20,000
data were collected and analyzed. An analytical report on the findings of
monitoring was written. The findings show: (a) the SHCEs in Zhoucun are held
by the local government. The value of stocks of these SHCEs in 1989 totaled
Y 13,045, 4.2 percent of which were state shares, xiang- and village-held
collective shares, corporate shares and institutional legal person shares,
another 5.8 percent were employee shares and private shares; (b) the rate of
corporate saving is high. By theoretical analyses of 51 samples, we know that
83.4 percent of the retained profits were used for expansion of production,
and 16.6 percent were for expenditures like welfare funds and rewards of the
employees; (c) only a small percentage of profits was for dividends; the eco-
nomic performance of these enterprises were apparently better than the aver-
age. Statistically, the per capita output value and per capita profit- and
tax-generating rate of these SHCEs were higher than the average by 43 percent
and 63.6 percent respectively.
(b) Fuyang
6.9       Since its inception in March 1987, the Fuyang Experimental Zone
roughly went through three stages.
6.10      The Beginning Stage (March-June 1987).  The main tas s in this stage
were the inves.'gation and study, the designing of the programs for experi-
ments, and the establishment of a system for the work in the zone. On the
basis of the study, the first set of ideas for the experimental zone was
advanced. At the end of June, the finalized program was put forward.
6.11      The All-Round Unfolding Stage (August 1987-End of 1988).  The work
in this stage included: (i) launching a publicity campaign in the whole zone.



- 63 -
Through radio, TV, press and all kinds of meetings, the objectives, signifi-
cance and steps of the experimental zone were propagated to seek the common
understanding and support from the people of all walks of life in Fuyang;
(ii) establishing the system necessary for managing the relevant offices and
lprojects; (iii) starting successively with 20 projects (see the annual report
of 1988 for details).
6.12      Sunmmarization, Consolidation and Improvement Stage (1989).  The
fundamental tasks in this stage were: summing up the suctessful experiences
of the experiments, consolidating the existing experimental projects, making
important breakthroughs and improving the pilot projects that were widely
applicable. the efforts were concentrated on the design of the companion proj-
ects to upgrade the overall level of work in the Fuyang zone.  Specifically,
the work involved: (1) The examination, appraisal and summarization of the
eight mature projects, namely, the rectification of market and checkpoints,
joint office work, the models of corporate system-building, the models for the
organization of enterprises and trade associations, the grant of the right to
wholesale to the private drug stores, the guide to the establishment of TVEs,
and the labor export of Linquan. (2) Continuing the execution of the unfin-
ished projects, strengthening their management and making additional inputs,
and with the improvement of monitoring system, following closely the develop-
ment iu the execution of the projects and making timely correction of the
deviations. (3) Marshalling resources to the key projects in order to make
breakthroughs.  This mainly refers to the drafting and enactment of the "Law
of Nongovernmental Enterprises."  The preliminary preparation of this project
included the extensive field study about the enterprises, departments and
communities. The drafting of this law and supplementary documents, the dis-
cussions on them and on their implementation, the consultations among the
departments concerned and the solicitation of views and ideas, the formation
of the work teams and the necessary promotional efforts were all completed.
But due to the changing external conditions, the actual operation of this
project was suspended for the time being.
6.13      Starting from the second half of 1989, the work in Fuyang progressed
to the stage of readjustment, harmonization and further improvement.  The
fundamental tasks were: readjust the priorities of the projects in the zone,
focus efforts on the key projects like the industrial parks and financial
service units, design a comprehensive system.   The work included:  (1) A
conscientious examination of the progress in the execution of the projects.
(2) Strengthening the guidance to and standardized management of the projects
like the industrial parks, financial service units. Affected undesirably by
the changing national economic priorities, the new enterprises in five indus-
trial parks were doubly pressured by the shortage of funds and poor sales of
their products. The approaches and responses by the zone authorities were:
(i) the classification and study of the 89 enterprises already in the areas
were made, making use of the World Bank funds in support of the key projects
which have a beneficial effect on the development of the parks. A total of
Y 4 million was invested to assist the projects whose output value was over
Y 5 million; (ii) restructuring the product nmix, acquire or auction those
poorly-managed enterprises; (iii) promoting the construction of infrastructure
and the implementation of preferential policies in the parks; (iv) finiarncing
the industrial parks through the nongovernmental financial service units.
(3) SHCE trials.  The work was done on tthe basis of the expetiences about tHe
rules of eight model enterprises. Through three years of trials and errors



- 64 -
and comparisons, experiences were garnered in Fuyang which were: with the
necessary preconditions, SHCE was the best model for the development of TVEs,
especially of the established enterprises on a considerable scale. Now the
trials were finished, the model would be applied in a planned and gradual
manner.  (4) The pil(t projects in Chudian Xiang, Wuoyang county, about the
"system of responsibility and private plots." The experiment U-.s conducted in
the suburban areas of the towns where TVEs were higlhly developed, it was about
the centralized ust of land after the rural labor force was absorbed by TVEs
and the correspond ng provision of social services. Therefore, it could be
construed as a matching up and interaction of work of TVE and land-system
building. (5) Experiment of the integrated development of agriculture, indus-
try and commerce.  The local agricultural resources were tapped mainly by
means of the combination of companies, peasants' associations and farm house-
holds.
(c) Wenzhou
6.14      Since its inception in 1987, the Wenzhou zone saw the work done in
the following two ways, first, formulation and promulgation of local adminis-
trative laws and regulations form the top down, leading those private and
partnership enterprises under the signboard of the 'collective" into the
SHCEs. Second, the experiments, from the ground Up, to clarify property
rights through the evaluation and quantification of capital and assets, a
clear definition of property ownership was arrived at.
6.15      But most of SHCEs in Wenzhou, in implementing the "provisional regu-
lations of SHCEs," only paid attention to those parts about institutional
setup. In 1987 and 1988, SHCEs only achieved quantitative growth. No sub-
stantive improvements were made in the structure of property rights, manage-
ment and distribution systems inside the enterprises.
6.16      On the basis of the achievements of previous stages, several follow-
up actions were taken in Wenzhou zone in the first half of 1990:
(1) Promoting the standardization of SHCEs in a planned and gradual manner.
In the first half of this year, leading groups were formed one bly one in coun-
ties. The issue of standardization was placed on the agenda of the local
governments. On June 2, a working session was convened in the city of Wenzhou
on how to promote the development of stockholding cooperative economy. After
the meeting, 20 articles of supplementary regulations on the policy of stan-
dardizing SHCEs were adopted and circulated. These articles dealt with:
(a) a clear definition of the collective nature of these enterprises; (b) the
distribution of post-tax profits: 30 percent of these profits should be used
for the expansion of production. They should be registered in the name of
shareholders as additional assets for the purpose of calculating dividends.
The divicdends and bonuses should be less than 25 percent of the profits;
15 percent of them should be put aside as the accumulated funds; 10 percent of
them are used for welfare and rewards of the employees; (c) encouraging the
development of new products of SHCEs and the acquisition of sunset enterprises
by the sunrise counterparts tlhrough the preferential tax policy; (d) improving
the financial management of SHCEs, formalizing the accounts and bills of the
enterprises; (e) clearly stipulating that share ownership can be inherited,
presented, marketed and transferred, but the withdrawal of shares is impossi-
ble. (2) Seminars were held on the legal issues of SHCEs, in-depth discus-
sions and extensive propagation were carried out on the management of enter-



- 65 -
prises under the law and on the norms of behavior for the law enforcement
agencies.  (3) A monitoring team with the people from the municipal Statisti-
cal Bureau as its backbone was set up, the plans and programs for training the
monitoring professionals were made. (4) Establishing the primary institutions
for the circulation of stocks. After the careful preparations during the
first half of 1990, a consultancy service on the transference of share owner-
ship in Wenzhou, composed of five SHCEs, was set up upon the approval of
municipal governments. Its main functions are: (i) providing consultancy,
liaison and agency services on the share ownership transfer of SHCEs;
(ii) responsible for the assets evaluation of the enterprises undergoing
transformation to the shareholding system, to prevent frauds and shifting of
risks: (iii) strengthening the supervision over the listed enterprises to
avoid the midway exodus of financial resources by some managers; (iv) regu-
larly publicizing the performance of enterprises and changes in the share
index.
6.17      At present, there are 23,000 SHCEs in Wenzhou, of which 15,000 are
industrial enterprises with a gross industrial output of Y 2.3 billion, over
65 percent of the municipal total. In the coastal counties of Cangnan, Ouhai,
Ruian, Leqing, the output value and tax of the SHCEs constitute over 80 per-
cent of the total from the TVEs. So these enterprises have become the pillars
supporting rural economic development.
General Principles
6.18      Choosing the Focal Point of Work.  The TVE system-building covers
many aspects. The responses and approaches by the different enterprises to
these aspects are different. There are two kinds of situation--one is that
the enterprises can benefit from the endeavor, for example, the establishment
of organizational structure that will promote the external economy of scale is
highly agreeable to the enterprises; the other is that the enterprises will
not directly benefit from the system-building effects which, nevertheless,
have an overall significance, e.g., those concerning the standardization of
operations. Enterprises will have greater difficulties accepting those
efforts. Worse still, in real economic life, those who standardize will lose.
So there should be priorities in the system-building. Considerations should
be given to the different demands by different enterprises. It has been borne
out by the experiences that not all TVEs take a positive attitude toward stan-
dardization. Generally speaking, the established enterprises (in terms of
scale), in the face of growingly complicated exchanges, and relationships of
credit and interests, will not only gain nothing, but also incur heavy losses
if they respond by nonstandardized behavior or by ignoring the legal con-
straints. In this respect, the emphasis of TVE system-building should be put
on the established enterprises, only then can we achieve more with less ef-
fort.



- 66 -
VII. RESTRUCTURING OF THE RURAL FINANCIAL AND INVESTMENT SYSTEMS
Implementation
7.1       In Guanghan city-level Integrated Experimental Zone for Rural Finan-
cial and Investment Restructuring, the enterprise reform of the county-level
branches of state-run financial organizations and insurance companies was
conducted in the following ways in order to improve the coordinated measures
of reform under the new management system and to raise the vitality of the
financial enterprises:
(a)  To improve and perfect savings, finance and credit management and
enterprise property management and distribution system, as well as
the indicators evaluation system for the better execution of the
branchi companies' economic plans.
(i)  The enterprise internal responsibility system went into effect
in 1989. The indicator itenis were adjusted in 1990 to better
correspond to the rights and obligations of each tier of con-
tractors.
(ii) The indicators for the staff efficiency wage system were
repeatedly improved, linking the staff work efficiency more
directly to personal income.
(iii)  Improvement and perfection of the relevant accounting system
concerning profit retention, business development and invest-
ment restraints made it possible for county-level branches to
maintain development vitality while effectively controlling the
rise of operation and wage costs.
(b)  The asset liability ratio management scheme practiced since 1989 by
the county-level branches of the Bank of Commerce in their credit
operations further expanded the branch banks' operation autonomy.
(c)  An appraisal on the Bad Debt Reserve System practiced by county-
level branches of the Bank of Agriculture since 1988 was made and
submitted to the head office of the Bank of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Finance.  The Bank of Agriculture began to implement
this system in all its branches around the nation in 1989. On this
basis, the Ministry of Finance made some revisions in the detailed
regulations and promulgated them in 1990. Now all the banks in
China have adopted this Bank Bad Debt Reserve System--an achievement
of the Guanghan experimental program.
(d)  The Credit Safety System has been promoted in an effort to improve
the banks' credit asset safety.
(i)  In 1989, the Bank of Agriculture completed its comprehensive
clearance of credit assets since 1979, and reestablished a
credit file and appraisal indicators for each client.



- 67 -
(ii) The banks are gradually increasing their ratio of secured loans
and mortgage loans in the credits and encouraging the debtor
enterprises and secured enterprises to buy insurance policies
on their own in order to inmprove their creditworthiness.
7.2       The nonbank financial organizations in the Guanghan Experimental
Zone focused mainly on strengthening stability and safety of enterprise opera-
tion and assets and improving the internal management system.
(a) Improving the cash capital system and approval of the rate of
increase for cash capital according to deposit and lending growth.
(b)  Defining shareholders' rights and interests according to the equity
pJinciple and improving the share management system. The Datong
Financial Service Unit and the Urban Credit Cooperatives revised
their new rules twice in 1989/90 in accordance with the recommenda-
tion of the 1988 World Bank Program Inspection and Evaluation Groups
so as to change the situation of the shareholders' rights exceeding
their obligations.
(c) The Urban Credit Cooperatives and the Datong Financial Service Unit
adupted the asset liability ratio management system in 1989.
(d) After a comprehensive investigation made by the provincial branch of
the People's Bank, the Guanghan Trust and Investment Corporation
adjusted in 1989 its operation orientation and improved its finan-
cing and credit management.
(e)  The Rural Credit Cooperatives and their municipality-wide Associa-
tion improved the city- (county-) controlled Bills Settlement regu-
lations and the financing management regulations within the system.
7.3       A self-disciplined Financial Coordination Group consisting of presi-
dents ot city branches of the People's Bank and other specialized banks was
formed under the leadership of the vice-mayor of Guanghan municipality in
order to facilitate the development of a citywide Bills Exchange Center into a
County Settlement Center (Settle Bank). The Group holds consultations once a
week, arbitrates settlement disputes, and promulgates Bills Exchange Regula-
tions. Other nonbank financial institutions settle their bills through the
specialized banks, with whom they establish an agency relationship.
7.4       The process of enterprise reform of the specialized banks and Insur-
ance companies and the business expansion of nonbank financial institutions
was slowed down, while the improvement of financial enterprises' auditing and
effective regulatory activities undertaken by the city branch of the People's
Bank was speeded up.
(a) Financial auditing and management were strengthened over the spe-
cialized banks whose autonomous decision-making power in operations
had been increased; asset liability ratio management was adopted
with respect to other credit institutions.
(b) Capital Call Market regulations were improved, clear distinction
between short-term market and other markets was effectively drawn,



- 68 -
the erroneous tendency of issuing loans from the short-term call
capital was under control.
(c) Regulations were made for financing in the capital market which
clearly provide that the enterprises must finance by issuing bonds
or equities, disclose their amount, term, rights and purposes, and
that financing cannot be started until examined and approved by the
People's Bank.
(d)  The establilshment of a Guanghan Securities Trading Agency was
approved, securities agency business was approved for the special-
ized banks, and the detailed regulations for securitiee trading were
formulated.
7.5       More obvious financial growth and reform was manifested in the
establishment and institutional development of the grassroots organizations of
the Farmers Cooperative Foundation (FCF). After the two township level FCFs
were in operation in 1989, FCFs were established in all of the 2". townships
and another two village-level FCFs were established on a trial b:Asis. In
1990, the village-level FCF management system was further improved. The farm-
ers have newly established 40 village-level FCFs, and by the end of this year,
the preparatory work for city- (county-) level Associations of FCFs will be
completed.
7.6       The growth of the rural insurance sector and its system restructur-
Ing foctised on the development of the multiple agencies for state-run insur-
ance companies and development of insurance products.
7.7       The development of securities business mainly focused on the estab-
lishiment of Guanghan Securities Agency of Sichuan Province (entrusted to
Guanghan Investment and Trust Corporation). At the same time, financial orga-
nizations were allowed to start operations as securities agents and Guanghan
Securities Agency was encouraged to broaden its securities trading business
and develop toward trading on its own.
7.8       State-owned financial organizations, including insurance companies
and postal savings agencies as well as Rural Credit Cooperatives have begun to
train staff members on a planned basis at regular universities, vocational
middle schools and other training courses in banking business and skills.
Nonstate financial institutions have offered the staff banking business and
skills training courses in which experts from Beijing, Chengdu, Mianyang and
other cities as well as senior staff members from Guanghan specialized banks
are invited by the System Restructuring Office of Guanghan Experimental Zone
to give short-term topical lectures.
7.9       Having improved its enterprise management regulations in 1989,
Meitan Land Finance Company was put into normal economic operation in 1990.
As to its operation performance, please refer to the chapter on 'Land Reform
System" in this report and the Financial Statement for the Credit Transfer
Project by China Investment and Trust Corporation for Agricultural Development
to the Experimental Zone.
7.10      The project implementation of the 11 Financial Service Units set up
according to TVE's production structure in Fuyan Prefecture was described in



- 69 -
the 1989 Progress Report submitted to the World Bank. No major reform mea-
sures have been taken in 1990. As to the performance of the operation, please
refer to the chapter on "TVE System Restructuring" in the current report.
7.11      The implementation performance of FCF projects was quite different
in the different experimental zones of Shangzhi Municipality, Yutian County,
Pingdu County and Yulin City.
(a) The Shangzhi FCF has completed a comprehensive system of village-
level FCFs and city-level Associations, formulated over ten sets of
important regulations and rtules. At the same time, as a financial
intermediary of this Experimental Zone transferring the World Bank's
policy loans, it has been put into normal economic operations since
1989. The reform measures mainly involve adjustments in the regula-
tions' specific rules, development of new forms of loans and credit
instrtuments and development of agent business for state-run insur-
ance compatnies in farm insurance.
(b) The FCF in the Yutian County Experimental Zone will continue to
prepare and set up township- and village-level FCFs while reforming
the organizational structure of county Associations of the already-
established FCFs, and improve and perfect their management regula-
tions. At the same tine, it will start agency business for state-
run insurance companies in farm insurance.
(c) The FCFs in Pingdu and Yulin Experimental Zones will mainly continue
to prepare and set up the village FCFs and township and village
Associations, and establish and improve relevant regulations.
(d) A village-level FCF was set up in 1989 in Shunyi Experimental Zone.
In 1990, efforts will be made to continue preparing and setting up
the village-level FCFs.
7.12      Two Fishermen's Cooperative Foundations and one Fishermen's Insur-
ance Association were set up in 1990 in Huanghua Experimental Zone for Fishery
System Restructuring. Three Fishermen's Cooperative Foundations were also set
up in 1990 in Shanwei Experimental Zone for Fishery System Restructuring. For
further information, please refer to the section of "Integrated Fishery
Reform" in this report.
Current Problems and Brief Analysis
7.13      The following problems occur in the Guanghan Experimental Zones
(a) The mandatory commercial loans imposed on the Bank of Agriculture to
purchasing farm produce (grain, oil crops and pigs) has become a
loan adversely affecting the bank's annual credit scheme, profit-
earning capacity and economic growth. This is because:
(i) though the proportion of commercial loans to overall loan gross
has been on the decline, the absolute amount is still on an
annual increase;



- 70 -
(ii)  similar mandatory loans scale imposed on other specialized
banks have decreased in items and size due to the increase
weight of market adjustment in economic operations and the
restructuring in the state-owned industrial and commercial
enterprise; no mandatory loans were imposed on nonbank finan-
cial institutions as they grew in number and increased their
deposit and loan business; and
(iii)  the budgetary restraint was strengthened after the enterprise
reform of the Bank of Agriculture, and a more direct link
between staff income and Bank's profit earnings has been estab-
lished.
(b)  The various kinds of mandatory loan schemes and goods-purchase
imposed by the government in the annual economic development plans
lack corresponding budgetary, taxation and accounting support,
thereby bringing about negative impact on the asset safety, profit-
earning capacity, staff income and economic growth of the special-
ized banks. And that leaves unspecified the financial relationships
between the specialized banks' branches and their corresponding head
offices, and those between head offices of the specialized banks and
their owner--the Ministry of Finance--without a forceful budgetary
restraint. The best example of this is the rapid development of
branch networks without considering the cost returns and the sharp
rise in the cost of savings. There is still a shortage of forceful
restraint on the reloan relationship of the Central Bank (People's
Bank) with the specialized banks, as relations of the Central Bank
still retain quite some characteristics of the early system of equal
alpportioning without taking account of need or performance. And an
inherent motivation to improve self-innovation, cost control
restraints, profit-earning capacity and economic growth is still
absent from the county branches of the specialized banks.
(c)  As the man(atory loan scheme imposed by the government has negative
impacts upon the specialized banks' profit-earning capacity and
growth, the specialized banks find it hard to automatically follow
the mandatory investment direction outlined in the loan schemes.
(d)  The Bank of Agriculture, in order to finance the low-cost capital to
execute the govermnent-imposed mandatory loan scheme to purchla'e
farm produce, controlled by administrative means the deposit and
credit operations of the rural credit cooperatives under the protec-
tion of the existing financial structure and made them deposit
12 percent and more of their deposit accounts with the Bank of Agri-
culture at low interest. This has reduced the profit-earning capa-
city and growth of the rural credit cooperatives.  This is why the
economic relations between the Bank of Agriculture and the rural
credit cooperatives have failed to be rationalized for many years.
(e)  Though no direct mandatory loan scheme was imposed on the nonbank
financial institutions, the regulation and control of the People's
Bank over their scope of business and the reserve fund requirements
(actually a savings fund) left them little credit capital to operate
upon. The reserve fund and transferred deposit in the People's Bank



- 71 -
were made to serve as the reloan capital of the People's Bank to the
sp)ecialized banks which is an indirect way of financing the low-cost
capital for the specialized banks to implement the mandatory loan
schemes.
(f) The public settlement organization has yet to be established. The
difficulty in developing a public settlement organization lies in
the fact that the county branches of the specialized banks have long
operated under respective interbank settlement networks and have
paid settlement funds.  The establishment of a county-level settle-
ment institution would require additional settlement fund, which
will further reduce the profit-earning assets. What is more, the
existing citywide Bills Exchange has basically met the bills settle-
ment needs of the specialized banks. But the nonstate financial
institutions are prevented by the government from joining the set-
tlement operation.
(g) The increased credit control schemes by the People's Bank over the
specialized banks, and by the specialized banks over their branches
has limited the credit autonomy of the branch banks. This is par-
ticularly true of the Bank of Agriculture. With its business opera-
tion mainly in the country, the Bank of Agriculture's major activi-
ties are undertaken by its county branches. The increased limita-
tions of operation autonomy of the county branches have reduced the
economic efficiency of the whole Bank of Agriculture system.
(h) The efficiency of finan&ing by the financial market was reduced
because of the rib,.  control of deposits and credit, low basic
interest rates, control of floating interest rates and the inability
of financial enterprises from Issuing loans with floating interest
rates according to risk.
(i)  The framework for a county-level rural financial system is yet to be
clarified. Further investigation is to be made and discussion to be
started as to which category of financial institutions should be
brought under the government development strategy for basic rural
financial institutions.
7.14      Though the problems are manifested in the Guanghan Experimental
Zone, the causes for these problems lie outside the framework of financial and
investment restructuring at the county level. The basic causes are:
(a)  Central Government annual financial budget deficits and final
accounts deficits were not fully balanced by fiscal measures, but
mainly by the traditional method of overdraft, thus applying heavy
pressure of mandatory loan schemes on the specialized banks. In
order to ensure the low-cost capital financing for its development
plan, the Central Government strictly limits the establishment and
development of local state-run financial institutions and nonstate
financial institutions.
(b) The lopsided price system in the national economy manifested in the
low price for farm produce suppressed the earnings in agricultural
operation while raising the returns in nonagricultural production



- 72 -
activities, leading to the inclination of the agricultural financial
institutions to engage in nonagricultural credit operations.
(c) In order to ensure the implementation of the government economic
development plan, a strict credit planning and managing scheme was
practiced by the People's Bank over the specialized banks, and by
the specialized banks over their branches. The more the financial
institutions seek profits and economic growth, the more rigorous the
credit planning and managing scheme to control them. The rigid
credit planning scheme is in great disharmony with the multiple
economic principals taking shape in the process of economic restruc-
turing and the combination of planned economiiy with regulation by the
market.
(d) The "iron-rice bowl" (no responsibility for losses) of medium- and
small-scale state-run industrial and commercial enterprises, coupled
with overstaffing and lack of a new social unemployment and retire-
ment system, obviates the basic legal prerequisites for improvement
and perfection of the credit system.
7.15      The solution of the aBove-mentioned problems is an important task
facing China's economic restructuring and requires a gradual process of reform
and development. However, this does not mean that certain isolated vanguard
reform measures cannot be put into operation in rural financial and investment
restructuring. Therefore, to solve the problems mentioned above, minor and
tentative measures of organizational innovation and system restructuring can
be taken in preparation for broader item-by-item or comprehensive rural finan-
cial and investment system restructuring. Valuable experimental projects
should be instituted for the sake of accumulating theoretical, program and
operational experience.
Experimental Projects Envisaged for the Next Phase
7.16      The Guanghan Experimental Zone is still the major experimental proj-
ect for rural f'nancing and investment restructuring.  Further experimental
projects are mainly the necessary coordination and perfection of the first-
phase restructuring. Tentative schemes havc been drawn up in the following
respects:
(a) The establishment of the county-level pulblic settlement institution.
The organization will be self-disciplined, and adopt a fixed member-
ship structure. It will be put under the existing settlement orga-
nization of the People's Bank Guanghan Branch. A Settlement Fund
will be established to collect fees on the basis of settlement
amount.
(b)  Higher-level Cooperatives Associations will he established at meet-
ings of lower-level Cooperatives. Basic regulations for organiza-
tion and financing activities will he based on the Shangzhi Farmers
Cooperative Foundation (detailed description given in the 1989 Prog-
ress Report).
(c) Improvement and perfection of an accounting system governing the
property ownership and management and economic transactions between



- 73 -
the Ruiral Credit Cooperatives and the Bank of Agriculture in prepa-
ration for entering a stage of operation on an agency basis.
(d) Improvement of the auditing regulations and measures of the People's
Bank over all the financial institutions and its regulatory function
over the financial sector, so that the People's Bank may strengthen
its auditing and creditworthiness, evaluation roles, and settlement-
managing capacity.
(e) Establishment of a bjasic regulatory system over rural insurance
markets, settlement of the small-scale single-item insurance activi-
ties operated under government intervention, and establishment of a
village insurance agency system consisting mainly of Farmers Cooper-
ative Foundations and Rural Credit Cooperatives.
(f)  Design of new projects for setting up a capital market, training
intermediate-level staff as well as introducing the floating inter-
est rate system.
7.17      The Farmers Cooperative Foundations Experimental project in other
experimental zones will all be based on the Shangzhi and Guanghan experiments
and improvements will be focused on the development of institutional system
and perfection of the regulatory system. New experimental projects of this
kind will be statted in a numiber of other zones.
7.18      With regard to the 11 TVE Financial Service Units in Fuyan Prefec-
ture, further efforts should be made to perfect the administrative regulations
of the People's Bank over their auditing and management, improve auditing and
management skills, and adopt more stricter asset-ratio liability management
measures and shareholders' internal loan regulations.
VIII. EXPERIMENTS IN STRUCTURAL REFORMS IN FORESTRY, ANIMAL HUSBANDRY,
FISHERIES, STATE FARMS AND POVERTY-STRICKEN AREAS
8.1       In addition to the above-mentio.ed experimental reform6 centering
around the most fundamental economic relations and structural links in rural
areas, since 1987 pilot zones for reforms in forestry, animal husbandry, fish-
ery, state-owned farms and poverty-stricken areas have.been established one
after another in the overall setup of experiment zones in rural China.
Experiments in Forestry Reform
a. Experiments and Progress
8.2       According to the national blueprint for rural experimental reforms,
two experimental zones for the reform of both collective and state-owned for-
est areas were set up in Sanmning City, Fujian Province and Weihe Forestry
Bureau, Helongjiang Province, respectively around 1988. The basic objective
of the experiment was to explore ways and means of setting up economic systems
and organizations in state-owned and collectively-owned forest areas, thus
laying the structural ground for the long-term development of forestry. To



- 74 -
this end, the two experimental zones worked out their own programs for experi-
mental reform in the light of their respective local conditions.
8.3       The Sanming Experimental Zone set up experimental projects to meet
the need for an economic structure and mode of development of the collective-
ly-owned forests in the wake of the policy adjustments in rural China. The
experiments include the following: (i) reforming the managerial structure of
the collectively-owned forests; (ii) institution of a mountain-and-forest
property rights system; (iii) establishment of operational organizations in
collectively-owned forest industries; (iv) establishment of a forest cultiva-
tion system; (v) reforming the investment structure of the forest industry;
(vi) setting up a management regime of forest resources; and (vii) building
forestry-related processing and exporting bases.
8.4       Guided by the principle of "defining organizational functions, tran-
sforming the operational mechanism and improving the external environment, the
Weihe Experimental Zone drew up an experimental plan which can be broken down
into the following: (i) building organizations for the management of state-
owned forest resources and the administration of the forest areas;
(ii) reforming the operational mechanisms of state-owned enterprises;
(iii) instituting a system governing the payable transfer of forest resources
and building a forest market; (iv) developing agriculture and multiple forms
of other industries as addiLional financial support for the forestry industry;
and (v) carrying out price reform of the timber that comes under unified state
control.
8.5       So far, varying degrees of progress has been made in the experiment
of the two zones. Between November 1988 and June 1990, the Sannming
Experimental Zone completcd 15 experimental projects three of which have been
extensively introduced through the city, 9 are further tried out in parts of
the city while the remaining 3 are going through feasibility studies for
application.
(a)  Sanming City.  Experiments in the establishment of village board of
forest shareholders. In 1984, the zone adopted the reform measure
of "dividing shares but not mountains, and setting up cooperative
ventures with a pool of shares.' It changed the previous collec-
tively-owned forest farm into a joint venture with the villagers as
the shareholders under the village forest board. In the experiment,
the system covers the following provisions:
(i)  The ownership of the mountains/hills shall be held by the vil-
lage council on behalf of the collective while the ownership of
the forests is owned by the board of shareholders on behalf of
the villagers, who jointly hold the shares.
(ii)  The shares are broken down into hilly land shares, general
shares and investment shares, representing respectively the
hilly land shares held by the village council on behalf of the
village as a whole, the redistribution of forest assets created
by the villagers through labor since the establishiment of rural
cooperatives in the early 1950s and the various forms of
investment in the forests by individual villagers.



- 75 -
(iii) The board of shareholders is clearly defined as an economic
body independent of the village council and responsible for its
own profits and losses.  As an industry-specific organizatienr
under the board of shareholders, the forest farm shall be con-
tracted out for management.
(iv)  Efforts should he made to consolidate the systems governing the
distribution of assets, earnings and labor inside the board of
shareholders.
(b) Establishment of a timber market system. To optimize the disposi-
tion of resources, the city opened a forest market under the condo-
minium of the Municipal Forestry Committee and the Bureau of Indus-
trial and Commercial Administrr.tion.  Meanwhile, it promulgated
Interim Measures for the Administration of the Sanming Lumber Mar-
ket, which permits the circulation and transfer of lumber resources
through auction, lease and many other means.
(c) Progress in the construction of a fast-growing and high-yielding
e'ommercial forest base for demonstration, the setting up of a net-
work for the propagation of scientific and technological findings in
forestry, the institution of a resources and forest administration
system and the establishment of an experiment and monitoring regime.
In 1980-90, the city planted 622,00 acres of forests of which
124,000 acres were fast-growing and high-yielding ones; forestry
science and technology propagation centers were set up at the munic-
ipal and county levels; 91 percent of the townships and 93.4 percent
of the villages set up forestry development stations/groups.
8.6       At its first phase of experiments, the Weihe Experimental Zone laid
emphasis on changing the operational structure of its state-owned forestry
bureau and developing various industries.
(a), Reform cf the operational mechanism-s of enterprises. The Weihe
Forestry Bureau introduced bureau-wide a contracted responsibility
system known as "three quotas and three linkages," i.e., under the
contract, quotas are set for the amount of felling to be done, the
acreage of reafforestation and tending of saplings, the growth rate
of earnings from other business activities, the amount of revenue to
be surrendered, the related infrastructure and technological trans-
formation, the protection of forests and the prevention of fire; the
producers' interests are linked to the increase of decline of lumber
resources, the managerial level in the enterprise concerned and the
economic returns for other business activities.
(b) Experiment in the establishment of an intrabureau bank. The basic
idea for the experiment was to set up inside the Forestry Bureau a
fund-raising institution which was to apply the mechanism of inter-
est rate regulation by simulating the state professional banks'
function of credit extension and means of settlement. The internal
bank uas to serve as a financial resettlermient institution for the
whole bureau. Meanwhile, the enterprises' accounts in the state
banks were withdrawn. The preliminary results of the experiment
point to better utilization of the funds available in the Bureau.



- 76 -
In 1988, Y 7,920,000 of funds were raised altogether and Y 4,820,000
of loans were extended to the Bureau's subsidiary enterprises.
(c) Experiment in developing a diversified economy. The fall in lumber
reserves in the state-owned forests forced the state-owned Forestry
Bureau into operational difficulties. To free itself from this
predicament, the Bureau conducted an experiment in diversifying its
economic activities by reclaiming mountains and wasteland and devel-
oping farming is support of the forest industry. ,ne running of
the Zone's Jiugongli Diversification Farm was contracted to the
Bureau's staff, who planted 627 acres of trees, dug 180,000 e2 of
fish ponds and reclaimed 200 acres of hilly land for agricultural
pursuits in 1979, with a total output value of Y 220,000 and a per
capita ainual income of Y 1,800.  On the basis of the experiment,
the Weihe Experimental Zone formulated Regulations on Land Develop-
ment Contracting. At the moment, the first-phase experiment
projects in this area are under review and assessment.
b. Analysis and Plan
8.7       The major problem facing the Sanming Experimental Zone is how to put
the introduced projects on a firm and standardized footing. The institution
of the forest shareholding cooperative system has a direct bearing on the
foundation on which rests the economic structure of collectively-owned for-
ests. In the trial establishment of the forest board of shareholders, the
protection of the basic rights and fundamental interests of the shareholders,
including the transfer of shareholding power, the inheritance of general
shares in lieu of remuneration for labor and the structural constraints inter-
nal to the board of shareholders, remains a subject for further studies. The
relationship between the forest board of shareholders and the village council
also needs clear definition through legal procedures with a view to ensuring
the legitimacy and independence of the board. On its part, the Weihe Experi-
mental Zone is mainly confronted with two problems. First of all, the wor-
sened environment in which the enterprises operate has made it difficult to
puwh ahead with the experimental reform of the enterprise operational mecha-
nism. Secondly, as the Forestry Bureau is subordinated to its superior admin-
istrative departments and involved in ties with the local cormmunity and the
society at large, the conditions are not yet ripe for attempting a direct,
comprehensive restructuring of the state-owned forests.
8.8       At its next stage of experiment, the Sanming Experimental Zone will
give priority to standardizing and spreading the projects that have been
introduced while coming up with a number of supportive experimental projects.
The Weihe Experimental Zone has worked out the 1991-93 experiment plan in a
bid to push forward the experiments in reforming forest management, developing
a diversified economy, readjusting the industrial setup and reclaiming barren
mountains/hiills and swamps.
Experiments in Animal Husbandry Reform
c. Experiments and Progress
8.9       Tlle basic line of thinking guiding the reform in the Xianghuang
Banner Experimental Zone was to promote the growth of the local economy with



- 77 -
definition of the pastureland property rights system as the core and through
reform of thte business management, circulation and service structures existing
in the pastoral areas. The priority for the first phase of the experiment was
to perfect and effectively implement the pastureland contracted management
responsibility system as well as establish and improve the pastureland admin-
istrative regime. The main components are as follows: (i) clearly define the
village-based collective ownership of grasslands and grazing grounds, augment
the pasture use right of the herding households and institute a complete pas-
tureland contracted management system which links responsibilities, rights and
interests in an integrated setup; (ii) introduce a system for the transfer of
pasture use right and a system: for the preservation, utilization and develop-
ment of grazing grounds; (iii) intensify efforts to build organizations at the
grass-roots level in order to promote the development of a double-tier opera-
tional system and build structures supportive of the grassland management
regime .
8.10      Over the past two years, progress has been made in the Experimental
Zone in the following areas:
(a)  Contracting of the pasture use right.  While the pastures remain
under the collective ownership of the administrative village, all
1.1 million acres of pastures of the whole Banner have been con-
tracted to the herdsmen for their use. A multiform contract system
has been introduced, with 70 percent of the pastures divided on a
per capita basis and 30 percent on a household basis.
(b) Instituting a system for the payable use of pastures. Pastures are
graded to form the basis for levying charges for pasture use, with
60 percent of the earnings going to the development of the village's
pastures. Pastures are transferable with payments which may be
50-100 percent higher than the village's levy of pasture use fees.
This is an incentive to the free flow and pasture operation of
scale.
(c) Establishing two pasture systems to introduce the mechanism of com-
petitive management. The subsistence pastures, earmarked for the
herdsmen's basic daily needs, are equally distributed on a per cap-
ita basis while responsibility pastures, used for developing commod-
ity production, are contracted out to the contracting households in
light of their production conditions and operational ability.
(d)  Delineating the boundaries of pastures and establishing a registry
and files system. A comprehensive assessment of the boundaries
between the townships in the Banner was carried out, with a pasture
boundary map drawn up for each and every village. Meanwhile, pas-
ture files have been established for all the contracting producers,
covering the acreage of pasture under contract, the grade of the
pasture, its grass/hay production, load of animals, the use fee due
and the short-term development targets. This has not only provided
historical docunments at.d the legal basis for the future settlement
of pasture disputes, but also laid the ground for supervision, exam-
ination, evaluation, granting of awards and imposition of fines by
the higher authorities.



- 78 -
(e)  Improving the system of determining the head of livestock on the
availability of grass by assessing the pasture load of herds.
Assessed by taking into account both pasture size and grass/hay
productivity, the targets for livestock carriage are applied to
every household. In encouraging herdsmen to increase the production
of grass/hay and livestock, a pasture's livestock load is the main
production target. The owner of the pasture will interfere if the
assessed load is exceeded. This experiment has helped increase the
protection and rational disposition of grazing resources.
8.11      Xianghttang Banner's first phase of reform has three results:
(i) the establishment of the pasture contracted use system is conducive to a
fundamental change of the traditional conception that pastureland has no cost,
thus reversing the traditional operational methid of emphasizing livestock to
the neglect of pasture and leaving livestock raising to the will of God;
(ii) it is conducive to the formation of a new pasture input mechanism for
increasing sources of revenue and attracting herdsmen input; (iii) It is con-
ducive to reinforced scientific management of pastureland, greater efforts to
manage pasturelanid according to law, restoration and improvement of the eco-
system and attainment of a balance between livestock and grass so that both
can be increased simultaneously.
Experiments in Fishery Reform
d. Experiments and Progress
8.12      May 1989 witnessed the formal establishment of two Comprehensive
Fishery Economic Restructuring Experimental Zones in the nation's constella-
tion of experiment zones for rural reform. One is located at the coastal city
of Huanghua, Hebei Province, North China; the other is at urban Shanwei,
Guangdong Province on China's southern coast. In view of the primary condi-
tions in the fishery management regime and the structural obstacles facing the
development of the fishing industry, the experiments in fishery reform were
designed to establish microeconomic entities and systems for the production
and free flow of aquatic products against the backdlrop of market readjust-
ments.
8.13      Accor(ling to this line of thinking, the experimental reforms at both
Huanghtia and Shanwei were carried out in microeconomic organizations, invest-
ment si-ructure, market system and fishery development. The specific pilot
projects are as follows:
(a)  Development and improvenment of fishermen's associations.
(i) Fishermen's associations have been established on a voluntary
basis, grouping such specialized cooperdtives as deep-sea fish-
ing, in-shore pisciculture and processing of aquatic produc-
tionl.
(ii)  Economic subsidiaries have been founded under the fishermen's
associations with funds coming from the members in the form of
shares. Their priority is to purclhase or li4re the village's
collectively-owned supportive facilities for fishery produc-
tion.



- 79 -
(iii) Fishery production support and a system for mutual aid in sal-
vages at sea have been put in place.
(b) Establishment of fishery shareholding cooperative syndicates.
(i)  Industry-specific syndicates.  Fishery companies have been
formed under a shares system and with the fishing boat as the
basic unit of production.
(ii) Integrated complexes of related trades. Under a shares system,
enterprises involved in such production links as marine fish-
ing, in-shore pisciculture, processing, refrigeration and mar-
keting are brought together.
(c) Improvement of the fishery investment structure.
(i) Establishment and development of fishermen's cooperative funds
to supply small short-term loans for fishery production pur-
poses.
(ii) Formulation of relevant policies as the guidance and framework
governing the increment of production accumulation by fishermen
and their enterprises.
(d)  Inst.tution of a wholesale market system.  The opening of a whole-
sale market for aquatic products which serves as a commodity distri-
bution and price-regulating center, an information bank and a pro-
cessing and storage factory, plus its galvanizing role in promoting
the evolution of market-related laws and regulations, production and
marketing organizations and the governumental system for regulation
and control, has helped rectify the market order.
8.14      As of now, the experimental reforms at Huanghua and Shanwei have
entered the application stage from the earlier phase of preparations. The
Huanghua Experimental Zone has conducted two experiments--the establishment of
fishermen's associations and fishermen's cooperative funds. The Shanwei
Experimental Znne has started off with three pilot projects--experiments in
fisher syndicaces, fishermen's cooperative funds and the wholesale market
system. Preliminary progress has been made in all those trial runs.
(a) Experiment in establishing fisherman's associations. The Huanghua
Experitental Zone focussed its attention on two areas.
(i) Prescription of regulations governing the existing fishermen's
associations. Born in 1987, the Qikou Village Fishermen's
Association is the first fishery production cooperative in the
nation formed on a spotitaneous basis.  The experiment helped
boost the construction of the Association's internal structure.
(ii)  Development of Fishermen's Association.  Now fishermen's asso-
ciations have been formed in five fishing villages of the Zone.
Affiliated members account for 45 percent of the city's total
number of fishermen who are engaged in deep-sea fishing.



- 80 -
(b) Experiment in forming fishery syndicates. There have been estab-
lished in the Shanwei Experimental Zone five fishery shareholding
companies whose operational structures may be split into two catego-
ries:
(i)  Companies formed with fishing boats in lieu of shares.  The
fishing boat owners pay their company administration fees pro-
portionate to the shares they hold while the company provides
changed services to the former.
(ii)  With funds raised in shares form, companies have been estab-
lished under which independent accnunting is done on the basis
of fishing boats and production loans are exterded to the lat-
ter. At present, the five companies command 47 deep-sea opera-
tion vessels, with a total tonnage of 6,253 tons, accounting,
respectively, for 21.9 percent and 44 percent of the total
number and tonnage of the deep-sea vessels in operation in the
area. Besides, the companies possess Y 60.8 million of fixed
assets for production purposes.
(c) Experiment in estalblishing fishermen's cooperative funds. The
Huanghua Experimental Zone has established cooperative funds in two
fishermen's association. The financial resources come from shares
bought by the members and the collectives as well as earnings from
the sale of discounted collective property which nominally belong by
members of the original production teams. Fishermen's cooperative
funds have also been set up in 7 of the 20 fishery administrative
districts/villages in the Shanwei Experimental Zone. In January-
September 1990, the cooperative funds built up a membership of 222,
attracted Y 1,123,500 in shares and granted Y 1,061,500 of credit
for fishery production.
(d) Experiment in establishing a wholesale market system. Having chosen
the site for the proposed wholesale market, the Shanwei Experimental
Zone is now raising funds and drafting basic stipulations for market
operation.
e. Analysis and Tentative Plan
8.15      Basically, there are two categories of major problems encountered in
experiments in tishery reform.
(a) Difficulties inherent in the pilot projects.
(i)  NAttlre of fishermpn's associations.  Judging from 'he present
state of affairs in the fishing districts, the viliage council
commards great authority as an administrative regime at the
grass-roots level and is prone to over-emphasis on the indelen-
dent decision-making power of fishermen's associations. There-
fore, the formation and evolution of the associations will be a
painfully slow process. Conversely, if the associations were
to depend too much on the help of the village council in their
development process, they would lose a large share of their
autonomy.



- 81 -
(ii)  Determination of the nature of fishery shareholding companies.
At present, determination of the nature of an enterprise in
China is based on the form of ownerslhip of the enterprise con-
cerned, but not on the form of responsibility deriving from its
possessiutn of assets. This has caused great confusion over the
nature of fishery shareholding companies.
(iii)  Problems in the establishment of a wholesale market system.
Most people view the experiment in shaping a wholesale market
system as building the necessary facilities for the trading
houses. In fact, the wholesale market system is an integrated
structure, including both the hardware (market infrastructure)
and the software (market organization and regulations). The
difficulty of the test lies in errors or deviations in the
government's selection of objectives, a weak awareness of the
legality of commercial contracts and the slow growth of commer-
cial intermediaries.
(b) Lack of financial backtup for the experiments. The success of the
test depends a great deail on the amount of financial input. The
shortage of investment, especially in the construction of a whole-
sale market, is most likely tc leave this promising experiment proj-
ect in a limbo.
f. Experiments and Progress
8.16      The overall objective for the experimental reform in Suibin Farm was
to improve and consolidate, based on family farms as operational units, a
double-tier managerial regime of "farms within a Big farm," readjust the
industrial setup, give shape to agricultural-industrial-commercial complexes
and develop large-scale commodity production.
8.17      Successful results have been achieved in the first stage of Suibin
Farm's experiments in reforming.
(a)  Steady growth of household farms: 3,073 household-based farms have
been set up at Suibin. Among them, 369 have farm machinery (12 per-
cent of the total), contracting 53,667 acres of arable land
(70.1 percent of all arable land under contract) and averaging 145.3
acres per household; those without number 2,690 (87.5 percent of the
total), contracting 23,833 acres of arable land (29.9 percent of the
cuntracted total), with each household farming 6.5 acres on average;
14 family farms are engaged in sideline production, animal husbandry
or fishery (0.5 percent of the total).
(b) Estalblinhment and improvement of cooperative units of production;
186 cooperative units of production have emerged on the whole farm.
Formed on a voluntary oasis, they bring together the tractors, com-
binee :-id transport vehicles of the mechanized households. Ten to
fifteen noniequipped households are coupled with each unit to operate
approximately 330 acres of land.
(c) Efforts to ease the contradiction between economy of scale and fair
distribution.



- 82 -
With the formation of family farms, a situation arose under which the small
number of houselholds with machinery farmed most of the land while the major-
ity--those without machinery--tilled very little land. The income disparity
between the two categories was generally five to six times and, in some cases,
as hligh as tenfold. The farm, therefore, adopted such measures as supporting
the ill-equipped households in changing their crop structure, running other
business in addition to farming and pooling funds for industrial pursuits as
well as lowering the charges for land use. Thus, while efforts were made to
seek economy of scale, consideration was also given to social justice.
(d)  Establishmpnt of a unified management regime governing farm tools
and machinery. Methods for the Management of Fixed Assets of Family
Farms and Methods for the Regulation of Agricultural Machinery, two
documents adopted by Suibin Farm, lay down clear stipulations con-
cerning procedulres such as establishment of files, registration of
family onmership, certification and examination relating to various
agricultural machinery owned by family farms and regarding the main-
tenance, storage and standards for field operation of the machinery.
(e) Reinforcement of prodture management. Under the farm's Methods for
the Management of Grains and Legume, both the single-tier and dou-
ble-tier systems for the sale of farm produce have been introduced
internally. In other words, the sale of the produce comes under the
farm's unified organization, with the portion sold under state quo-
tas settled at the proportional price, and the surplus at a negoti-
ated price while the shortfalls are made up for with payments.
(f)  Restructuring of Big Farm management.  The 36 administrative offices
have been reduced to 21, registering a 41.7 percent cut; managerial
personnel in production teams have been slashed. This move saves
tthe farm Y 1.1 million a year at two levels of adminiistrative estab-
lishment. Eight companies have been formed, covering dairy cattle,
materials, foodstuff and oils, trade, commerce, cater conservancy
and R&D in paddy rice, respectively. Centers for counseling in
science and technology, epidenmic prevention, education and cultural
activities, settlement of accounts and grains treatment have also
come inito being. The companies and centers are playing an important
role in serving family farms.
(g) Great efforts at the construction of production teams. Formulated
by the farm in 1989, the Regulations on the Implementation of the
Production Team Leader Responsibility System provides explicitly
that the production team remains the primary unit of accounting. In
addition to its own business operations, it represents the farm in
the administration, coordination and leadership of family farms in
the latter's production and business activities and of the whole
team's social welfare and services.
(h) Development of agricultural-industrial-commercial complexes. The
farm has established eight companies related to dairy cattle, mate-
rials, seeds, grains and oils trading, etc. Relying on family farms
as raw material production bases, headed by modern processing indus-
tries and linked to various supportive services, the complexes are
displaying great vitality.



- 83 -
g. Remaining Problems and Future Plan
8.18      In its transition from the old system to the new, Suibin Farm still
faces many problems in its experimental reforms:
(a) The restructuring of the Big Farm's administration is lagging behind
and the socialized services syst:em, still in the process of estab-
lishment and improvement, cannot meet the needs of the developing
family farms.
(b) Funds are in short supply.
(c) Small "mosaic fields" have appeared in the neighborhood of most of
thie family farms with machinery. Although the practice having
smaller pieces of land has helped raise labor cost-effectiveness, it
has nevertheless impeded the use of big machines and cured the fur-
ther development of family farms.
(d) There is too heavy a social burden. Annual expenses on cultural
activities, education, medicare and subsidies for public security
amount to more than Y 1.5 million, putting a heavy burden on the
farm.
In view of the problems listed above, the farm has targeted the following
areas as priorities for its future endeavors.
(a) Promoting agricultural development on the strength of scientific and
technological advancement.
(b) Beginning to tackle the problem of "mosaic fields."
(c) Rectification of businesses with heavy losses.
(d) Modernizing and increasing farm tools and machinery.
(e)  Stepping up administration of farm produce.  Quotas for sales to the
state under plan are fixed as priority targets; the surplus after
quota-sales can be sold independently so that the staff's enthusiasm
for grain production is mobilized.
(f) Solving the problem of unfair distribution. A resources-use fee is
charged on bigger family farms equipped uith machinery, to go to a
special fund in support of the development of family farms without
machinery.
(g) Making greater efforts to establish a Big Farm service system.
Experimental Reform in Poverty-Stricken Areas
h. Experiment and Progress
8.19      The following areas were defined as those under the experiment:



- 84 -
(a) Establishment, through full employment of economic, legal and the
necessary administrative means, of an economic operational mechanism
with planning as the mainstay and market regulations the auxiliary.
(b) Vigorous efforts at developing collective, individual, privately-
owned and mixed economies.
(c)  Changing helping poverty-stricken areas through relief to helping
them through development and turning poverty-relief efforts from an
administrative act into an economic one in a bid to speed up efforts
to meet the basic needs for food and cloth.
(d)  Mohilizing people to plant trees and grass, reduce farmland in favor
of afforestation and animal husbandry, keep water and soil under
permanent and comprehensive conservation and speed up the ecological
constructJon in karst areas. This was to be done one areas after
another by following an order of priorities under plan.
(e) Adoption of measures to curb the excessive population growth in a
planned, systematic and practical manner while steadily improving
the population quality.
8.20      Since the Experimental. Zone was born in June 1988, among other
things, the following efforts were made:
(a)  Comprehensive agricultural development a.  ological improvement.
Specifically, vigorous efforts were made to increase grain produc-
tion, develop various economic activities, improve low-yielding
fields, accelerate the construction of water conservancy works and
develop a multidimensional agricultural with forests grown on moun-
tain tops, trees and shrubs planted half way up the mountains, grass
and green manure crops cultivated on hilly land and grains harvested
in the fields. This measure helped keep the soil covered with trees
and grass, feed the livestock with grass, enrich the soil through
livestock breeding, increase grain output with more manure and pro-
mote animal husbandry through development while financial and tech-
nological inputs wete increased. More than one year of effort
brought about good results. In 1989, the total grain output reached
1,167,000 tons, a 12.3 percent increase over the previous year, the
output value of animal husbandry rose by 4 percent over the same
period, the gross agricultural output value grew by 8.7 percent to
Y 1,110 million and the peasants per capita income came to Y 240, up
13.2 percent
(b) Development of rural and private economic sectors. In 1989, the
industries owned by the whole people turned out goods at a value of
Y 860 million, i.8 percent more than in 1988.  The rural and town-
ship) enterprises created an ou ;:.t value of Y 620 million, register-
ing a growth of 12 percent.
(c) Practical efforts at freeing the areas from the yoke of poverty by
changing purely economic relief to poverty relief through develop-
ment aid. An examination of the 207 projects with over Y 100,000 of
investment each reveals that 97 of them had good economic returns



- 85 -
(46.9 percent), 62 were average (30 percent) anid 48 were poor
(23.1 percent).
(d)  Strict control of population growth.  As of December 14, 1989,
265,724 birth control operations had been performed in the whole
prefecture, ritling by 45.2 percent over 1988.
i. Remaitning Problems and Future Plan
8.21      The Experimental Zone faces quite a few economic difficulties
resulting from the squeeze on money supply as well as a tall order in building
the extremely weak infrastructure in agriculture. Its plan for the tasks
ahead:
(a)  Readljuist the industrial structure and raise the production of grains
and cash crops; increase tea cultivation to form a 1:3 ratio in tea
and tree acreage; inicrease the share of agroindustries in the indus-
trial setup; build more transport and telecommunication facilities.
(b) Gradually readjust the ownership structure. While ownership by the
whole people and collective ownership are to remain predominant,
rural and township enterprises as well as individual, private and
jointly-run economic sectors should continue to be developed.
(c)  Keep deepening the internal reform of enterprises and further
improve the contracted management responsibility system.
(d) Work hlard to develop Intra and interprefectural horizontal economic
association.
(e)  Reinforce efforts at family planning.



- 86 -
IX. SAIC AGRIBUSINESS TRUST AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
9.1       As an outcome of the deepeninig reform of China's rural investment
and finance system and as an implementing agency for the first installment of
World Bank's RSAL, the fornmer China Agriblusiness Trust anc Investment Corpora-
tion (CATIC) persisted for years in fulfilling its original purpose of pushing
forward with the rural reform and the developnment of rural commodity economy.
Engagedl in finance, industry, trade, real estate, etc., with the first
installment of RSAL constituting a lion's share of its calital and with large
amounts of idle funds it absorbed from other sectors than agriculture, it made
a flexible and effective use of the funds in implementing the various rural
reform policies and turninig the rural economy to a market economy.  In the
process, its operations grew to a considerably large scale and achieved satis-
factory social results. It played a stimulative and exemplary role in explor-
ing ways to deepen the reform of investment and finance systems in rural
China, expand effective supply of agricultural products and bring about a
prosperous rural commllodity economy. CATIC's niajor operations included:
(a) Provide sutpport to the constrtuction of the rural reform experimental
zones. It extended Y 100 million of long-term policy loans to 19 of
the 20 zones in direct support of the various projects.
(b)  Develop rural investment and financial intermediaries.  In the
spirit of the Rural Reform Statement, 23 intermediaries were
selected and developed in 19 provinces, autonomous regions ar,d
municipalities directly under the central government (with
Y 120 million invested in regions other than the experimerntal
zones).
(c)  Invest in rural industry.  According to its orientation of serving
agriculture and the requirements set by the central government for
the "Vegetable Basket Project"--a project designed to ensure a sta-
ble supply of vegetables to urban residents; CATIC managed to raise
over Y 400 million for a number of projects in such fields as live-
stock and poultry farming and their sideline product processing,
aquatic product cultivation anid processing, food processing, etc.
(d)  Develop rural markets.  Invested by the State with multiple func-
tions, CATIC devoted 280 million primarily Lo financial operations
and secondly, to trade and real estate, with particular emplhasis on
financing. Its efforts to establish ties between urban and rural
economy and boost agricultural input led to fairly good economic and
social results.
9.2       On JTuly 28, 190, the Politlutreau of the Central Committee of the
Communist Party of China decided to have CATIC merged with the China State
Agribusiness Investment Corporation (SAIC) under the State Planning Commis-
sion. On February 17, 1990, the State Council gave its official approval,
listed the new corpcration as an affiliate exclusively owned by SAIC and
changed its name into SAIC Agribusiness Trust and Investment Corporation
(thereafter called SATIC). The State Council also approved of its adopting
CATIC's status as an enterprise, operating in the same fields and through the
sante fund-raisiing channels, and continuinig to serve as an implementing agency



- 87 -
for World Bank's RSAL in China.  On September 14, 1990, the State Council once
again gave the green light to SATIC to continue its probing efforts, as CATIC
did, in thie reform of China's rural investment and financial systems and run
the office under the State Leading Group for the World Bank China Rural Sector
Adjustmenit Lending.  On September 18, 1990, the corporation was officially
registered under its present name.
9.3       With the approval of the competent ministries under the State Coun-
cil, SATIC now has the right to transact financial, foreign exchange and real
estate operations. It is expected to obtain the right to extend its opera-
tions into foreign trade ,n the near future. SATIC is directly responsible to
those competeut ministries in respect of the above-mentioned operations and
the management of its workforce, salary and financial affairs. It still
enjoys considerable autonomy.  This shows that CATIC won extensive understand-
ing and support for its contribution to the rural economic reform and growth.
That is one of the important reasons why CATIC could be kept intact in SATIC,
wlhich still enjoys considerable autonomy in its operations.
9.4       SATIC has the following three characteristic features:
(a)  It is the sole implementing agency for World Bank China RSAL;
(b)  It Is the nonlbank financial institution at the national level in the
agricultural sector, which operates completely like an enterprise
(i.e., operate independently with sole responsibility for its own
profits and losses);
(c)  It is not exclusively aimed at profit-making, but serves also as a
policy-implementing institution entrusted with the important task
for making explorations in the rural reform.
9.5       The way the first installment of RSAL was used shows that although
the economic results of the tremendous input CATIC made into the rural reform
and the development of the rural conmodity economy were not satisfactory
enough for the corporation itself, it did yield fairly good social results,
and therefore, largely fulfilled its purpose as a policy loan. The following
are some of the main problems that remain outstanding:
(a) Funds were too muich spread over the various experiment zones to
produce significant impact on any one single zone. RSAL was mainly
used for the economic growth of the zones, not directly but indi-
rectly in support of these zones. The loans have all been handed
out. As no accumulation will emerge from this kind of loans and
keep the ball of input rolling, and the second installment of RSAL
cannot be introduced on schedule, SATIC has no more funds to draw on
to sustain input.
(b) The investment in industry assumed an unduly bulky proportion.
Because of the excessively low prices for agricultural products in
China and the absence of subsidies for agriculture from governments
both central and local, the return of the investment is rather
insignificant, hence lack of accumulation capacity. In addition,
the influence of individual industrial project is too small to pro-
mote the growth of local economy as a whole.



- 88 -
9.6       The resolution of these problems depends on the continuous external
policy and financial support by SATIC as well as the readjustment of the
development strategy. SATIC will continue to bring into play its strong
points and draw useful lessons from experience. Based on the new conditions,
its development strategy is as follows: adhere to the purpose originally
defined for CATIC to carry the reform forward in depth and promote the growth
of rural commodity economy, engage itself mainly in finance with both internal
and external trades and real estate as subsidiary and industry as its basis,
and develop gradually into a financial group corporation which plays an exem-
plary role in the reform and exerts an overall influence in China's agricul-
tural sector. Specifically, the strategy contains the following main ingredi-
ents:
(a)  Continue to stt-dy and explore the approach to and measures for the
deepening of the rural reform, to pursue and enrich the tentative
plan put forward in the Rural Reform Policy Statement, to improve
the State's investment behavior with regard to rural economy and to
explore new ways and channels of input.  Open up new financing ave-
nues and improve the operational order in rural financial institu-
tions to promote the expansion an-i diversification of the rural
financial service. Develop rural market facilities and new-type
organizations. Promote the development of science and technology in
rural areas in order to give impetus to the integrated development
of agriculture.
(b)  Continue to lend support to the reform and construction in the rural
reform experimental zones. Conduct more effective management of the
existing reform projects and identify and develop new ones. From
now on, focus efforts on a certain specific fields and areas, and
introduce forms and innovations directly in organization and regime
with the object of gaining immediate results and thus providing
firsthand experience for the comprehensive implementation of reform
measures.
(c) Lay emphasis on the imnprovement of economic results, especially on
the achievement of better ones through teform and relevant policies.
Raise the percentage of rural financial operations by readjusting
its own strategy and rely mainly on the earnings from financial
operations to form a sound mechanism and capacity for growth and
snowball development on its own, so as to be able to effect continu-
ous appreciation and expansion and speed up accumulation.
(d) Give play to the advanitages it enjoys as a financial corporation and
expand and strengthen its financial operations. First, set ul) a new
division for financial operations at SATIC's head office and have it
staffed with personnel who have financial expertise. Second, extend
the finaticial functions of the corporation to localities, and gradu-
ally form a network by opening a number of branch offices in a
planned way or participate in local financial institutions in dif-
ferent manners. Make necessary organizational arrangements to
ensure that the policy intentions of the corporation are followed.
Heighten the effect of the policy toward the restructuring of rural
finance. At the same time, fortify the weak links in the existing
rural financial setup (for example, rural collaborative finance) and



- 89 -
study and explore practical ways to mobilize the surplus funds in
farmers' harnds and channel them into agricultural sector for expan-
sion of agricultural reproduction and effective increase of agricul-
tural input.
9.7       SATIC has a strong interest in the discussion and cooperation with
the World Bank in this and other respects nientioned above.



- 90 -
PART 3: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Loan/Credit No.: Ln. 2967-CHA/Cr. 1932-CHA
I. Basic Data (as of May 28, 1991)
AMOUNTS
($/SDR million)
original      Disbursed      Cancelled      Repaid      Outstanding
Loan             200.0            200.0          0.0           0.0          200.0
Credit            72.24 /a          72.24        0.0           0.0           72.24
/a  Equivalent to $100 million at tine of Loan Negotiations
Original Loan/              Actual or
Credit Dates              Reestimated
Initiating Memorandlum                       01/25/88               02/09/88 (A)
Letter of Development Policy                 04/04/88 /a            05j25/88 (A) /b
Negotiations                                 04/27/88               05/09/88 (A)
Board Approval                               06/28/88               06/23/88 (A)
Loan/Credit Signing                          ----                   07/15/88 (A)
Effectiveness                                09113/88               09/19/88 (A)
Loan/Credit Closing                          07/31/90         Ln.:  09/18/89 (A)
Cr.:  10/17/88 (A)
la First Draft
Lb State Council approved version



- 91 -
CUMULATIVE LOAN AND CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
FY89                      FY90
Planined
Loan                                    100.0                    200.0
Credit  (SDR)                       72.24                    72.24
Actual
Loan                                    195.1                    200.0
Credit  (SDR)                      72.24                    72.24
Percent
Loan                                     97.5                    100.0
Credit                                  100.0                    100.0
Mission Data                             TRS Data /a
Date  No. P-rsons  Dot. of    Tsok      FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91   Total
Report             ------    ------(Sw)---------------
Preparation           11/87        9     01/19/88    LENP      61.9                             61.9
Appraisal            02/88        19     03/29/88    LENA    110.0                             110.0
Supervision!         09/88         9     01/04/89    LENN      23.0                             23.0
Supervision II /b    09/89         6     11/07/89    LOP        0.9                              0.9
Completion           01/91         6     05/30/91    SPN        0.9    66.5      9.8     7.4    88.1
PCR                               17.9    17.9
PAD                        0.3             0.3
Total                                                    196.7    e6.6     9.8    26.3   297.1
/o The TRS date can not be disaggregated mission-by-mission.
Lb    Program Review Mission



- 92 -
SUPERVISION RATINGS
Supervision I   Supervisicn II
Overa]]  Status                               1                3
Project Development Objectives                1                3
Ctompliance With Legal Covenants              1                1
Project Management Performance                1                3
Availability of Funds                         1                2
Procturement Progress                         1                1
Traitning Progress                           n.a.            n.a.
Technical Assist. Progress                   n.a.             n.a.
Studies Progress                             n.a.            n.a.
EnvirotnimePntal Aspects                     n.a.             n.a.
Financial Performance                        n.a.            n.a.



- 93 -
II. Status of Compliance witlh Loan Covenants
Loan No.:  2967-CHA
Credit No.:  1932-CHA                    Completion Date:  n.a.
Amount:  $200.0 million                 Closing Date: July 31, 1990
SDR 72.2 million
Status
Covenants                               ------------                   Remarks
Yes No N/A
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01
Government to submit PCR               XX                 PCR submitted 12/90
not later than six months after
clositng date.
Section 3.01 (a)
IDA to review program with             XX                 Formal program review
Govertnmernt not later than                               held 09/89
June 30, 1989.
Section 3.01 (b)
Government to furniish                 XX                 Reports submitted
reports prior to excchange                                06/20/89 and 11/01/90
of views.                                                 IAW agreed formats.
Section 3.03
Govt to submit not later               XX                 Audit report covering
than June 30, financial
statement audited                                         all RSAL disbursements
independent auditors.                                     received 06/30/90
Loan Agreement
Section 1.01. PCR: same as Section 1.01 of Credit Agreement.
Section 3.01. Program Review: same as C.A. Section 3.01 (a).
Progress Report: same as C.A. Section 3.01 (b).
Accounts & Audit: same as C.A. Section 3.03.



- 94 -
III. Summary of Performance in the Rural Reform Program
Intentionn indicated
Policy area                             in pol icy letter                       Actions taken                            Comments
I. Price reform
I  National policies            1  National policies were to:
1.1 - gradually reduce the            1.1 - the volume of official          1.1 - owing to record harvests
volume of procurement of              procurement was retained at           in 1989 and 1990 the govern-
areins at fixed Plan prices           the pro-RSAL level of 50 mil-         ment was forced to retain the
lion tons, while procuroment          level of procurement at the
at nonplan prices increased           pre-RSAL level mainly as a
from 45 to 65 million tons            producer price support
1.2 - increase tho remaining          1.2 - quota production prices
state controllad producor             for grains and vegetable oil
prices                                were increased nominally by
18 percent in lato 1988, but
further grain price reforms
wer postponed until 1990. In
April 1991, urban price
increases for table grains.
animal feedotuffs and ediblo
oils, ranging from 50 percent
to more than 200 percent were
announced by the Government.
1,3 - increase th, proportion         1.3 - in 1991 the Government
of sales through market and           announced, that premium table
gradually transform the two-          grains would no longer be
Ierf pricing that remained in         distributed through ration
agriculture (primarily grains)        *hops, but would be sold at
into a aystm of market pric-         market prices
ing
1.4 - replace general sub-i-                                                1.4 - consumer food subsidies
dies fot food products by                                                   continued to increase until
targeted subsidies to low                                                   urban price increaaes ware
income groups                                                               introduced in 1991
1.5 - carry out extensive             1.S - the intended experiments        1.5 - Thus fnr, the  xperimen-
experiments in two reform             were largely carried out - in         tal programs have provided
areas and denalop procedures          addition, through sponsored           guidance for tho implements-
for the transition ko more            visits to the RRPs, 3 prov-           tion of future reforms and
liberalized grain pricing in         inces, one provincial level            have created an environment,
other regions                         mun;c;p-lity and jurisdictions        conducive for major policy
in 4  dditional provinces             reforms in the future.  In
introduced all or part of RRPs       parallel, systematic efforts
even before the 1991 pricing          have been made to diffuse and
reforms ware announced                replicate the more successful
experiments in other regions
through conferences, *eminars
and site visits



- 95 -
Intention, indicated
Policy  ,e                               in policy letter                        Actions taken                            Comments
2 Regional neform  Pro-                 * policies in one grain
grass                                  us area and one grain
^.t area aimed to:
2   - raie contract procure-         2.1 - priri,ement prices were          21I - Ouring 1988-1990 grain
mel, prices for grain                  increase., in both experimental       production and local per cdpi-
zones                                 ts availabiIity incroseed in
the experimental zone, in part
due to higher producer prices
2.2 - reduce urban sales sub-         2.2 - consumer price hikes and         2.2 - the postponement of key
sidles and raise the Wap ,            additional reductions in               aspects of consumer price
prices for grain to market             ration allotments  aere an-            reform led to serious firnani-
levels                                nounced il the grain deficit           cial difficulties since gruin
zon, bht further adjustments          procurement prices had   ready
wore postponed due to economic        been raised. In the experimen-
auOterity program in 1989. In         tal *ress local cadres ini-
grain surplus zone, Price             tially reacted quite strongly
hikes and reluction in *llot-         to urban price increases, but
e.nto were p)stponed  In late         following systematic 'cam-
1990, prparations resumed in          paigns" to publicize program
both RRPs t, restart consumer         Particulars1 a much smoother
price refo.-m.                         implementi.ion is no.
expec ted
2.3 - Improve the yield of             2.3 - agricultural tax reform
agricultuiral taxation in the          introduced in 1989
grain surplus experimental
zone
2.4 - liberalize grain use for
industrial pur-poses
2.5 - reduce input subsidies           2.5 - input prices were in-           2.5 - although input prices
creased                               had been increased, fert.ilizer
und diesel oil remained in
short supply (a consequence of
general economic austerity)
II. Rural Marketing Sys-
tem end Cooperative.
I  Notional policies             1  National poliieis aimed to:
1.1 - promots the developmelnt         1.1 - By late 1990, national
of indepandent internal mar-           and several provincial Ievel
keta for agricultural commodi-        wholesale markets for grain
ties                                  were established. The state
council also announced a pro-
gram to create additional 7
national wholesale markets
during Eigth Five Year Plan
period (1981-1985) and
included provis;on for associ-
ated investments in the plan.
These markets will operate
alongside the state-owned
grain distribubion system
until the necessary invest-
ments are made and, eithin 3-5
years, will replace the admin-
istrative management of inter-
provincial grain transfers.
1.2 - improve the efficiency          1.2 - In the wake of nstional          1.2 - Bank assistance
and competetiveness of the            senior cadre seminars orga-             requested to design ain innest-
marketing system                      nized by officials responsible         ment program and help estab-
for RSAL implementation, in            lish stockpile manage-
which grain pricing and mar-          ment/sarket regulation cape-
ketiny issues were reviewed -         bilities
held ,n 198901990 *nd 1991 - 6
major grain producing prov-
inces. severbl counties and 3
major cities introduced their
oen price liberalization and
market development progrems.
1.3 - liberalize marketing                                                  1L3 - distribution of chemical
channels for inputs                                                          fertilizers 'ecentralized in
1989 to support Oovernment's
grain production programs



- 96 -
Intantions indiated
Policy urge                              In policy letter                        Actions taken                            Comments
2  Regional Refo-m               2  RRP- include experim.nts in
Profirom                      two provinces to;
2.1 - form multipurpose, com-         2.1 and 2 2 - state financial
munity owned cooperatvives              upport and technical assis-
integrating the production            tance for both RRP- was *ug-
roo-ing end marketing of           mented after RSAL became  *t-
ahlb-vue commodltil                   factive using counterpart
proceeds.
2.2 - form special purpose
cooperativea and technical
advisory service to promote
the processing, marketing end
exporting of high-valued agri-
cultural products
2.3 - develoo draft regula-                                                  2.3 - draft rgultions wr
tions for voluntary cooper,-                                                 pres  ted to National People's
tivye                                                                        Congreas  in 1989 then emanded
for further review
III. Land Use System
I  National policies             1  National policies aimed to
1.1 - formulate notional laws         1.1 - national laes to eatab-          1.1 - The government, interest
and regutationa a.  wll; as            lish markets in rural land use        in enacting th  drft regula-
implementing  policies and            rights were drafted in 1989,           tions w.v-  to have die-
legislation  in land use              though, these remain before the        sipoted. Among the reasons
rights. eortgageability *nd in        State Council and the National         stated are:
settling lfnd use disputes            People's Congress  In 1989.            - fear of speculation with
SiA announced regu ltion               land us  rright
1.2 - initiate a nabional land        wilch esiabliahed adninitr-           - unclar ownerthip rights
reg'stration system                   tiva procedures and a Schedule         amongst various government
of foes for agri,ultural land          departments to assess and
conversion                            ccl lect land taxes snd fess
- sck of a sound recording
end administrative arrangement
2  Reglonal Reform               2  RRP* include experiments in         2  The implementation of the           2  The experimental program
Programs                     one labor surplus area and in           MRPe encountered problems.            ass flowed because of a con-
three labor deficit areas             Howevar. since mid 1990 some           tinuous need to service the
aiming to:                            of the principles successfully         atate's grain procurement
tested are being eatended to          quotas which led to unintended
neighboring jurisdictions              results.
2.1 - establish working ma -          2.1 - in the most promising            2.1 - It was recommended by
kets in rural land use rights          exi,wriment, initiated only at         the second supervision mission
a later stage in Pingdu. the           thlt aupport for the RRPs in
redistribution of land use            the labour deficit areas be
ri,hte has largely been accom-        withdrawn with the exception
plished                               of the Pingdul experiment,
because of the limited replic-
ability of the experimental
rsults. The experiment in
Pingdu, where a successful
auction system is being imple-
mented  could develop into a
model for managing land use
r i ghts in labor deficit xones
2 2 - improve the land record-         2.2 - improved land recording         2.2 - enforcement of the new
ing and edministration *ystem         and administration systems             lend conversion regulations
have yet to be established for        for agricultural land has
agricultural land, however,           slowed considerably the annual
progress was achieved with the         decline in cultivated area
enforcement of new land con-
version procedures
2.3- createt a land bank to           2.3 - China's first rural Land
offer mortggeeo secured in the        Finance Cooperatioii was estab-
rights being transferred               lished in Meiteng, but it has
yet to offer mortgages secured
in land use rights
2.4 - consolidate and increase        2.4 - experiments have been
average ferm size                     conducted in several prov-
inces. but no conclusive re-
sults are available
Note: In 1989, an ongoing
expsriment in Piiigdu. Shen,dong
(a labor deficit rrea) wae
added to the program.



- 97 
Intentions Indicated
Policy arms                              In policy letter                        Actions taken                            Comments
IV. Rural Enterprise
Syste"
I  National pollciea             I  National pollka. aimed to;                                                 I  A number of questlons of
rural industry end commercial
policy wmil still have to be
addressed In national nect-
mants In ordxir to estebllih a
stable business environment,
including:
- the preperation of a 'compa-
nies saw for all forms of
non-agricultural enterprises
- firm and consistent rules to
govern entry end eoit in the
sectors where TVEs have
evolved
- the establishment of enter-
prise liquidation procedure.
- ruls to govern contrect.
liability and contingent obli-
gublons
general rul'es to govern
capitl i,etion *nd enterprise
taxat ion
- work-force mobilization und
employment policies
- uniform application of
credit-sorthiness procedures
by the state-owned banks snd
assessment of tea obligations
by local bureaux of finance
1.1 - promote increased effi-         1.1 - With regulations enacted
ciency of the TVEs end their           in June 1988, si9nificsnt
expansion                             progress was achieved in clar-
ifying the legal status of
private firms. Regljations on
rural collective firms were
adopted in Jujne 1990 promoting
the separation of management
from ownership. The regula-
tions also enviesh?ed a streng-
thened role for higher level
of government in providing
gui ance and supervision to
ouch enterprises
1.2 - exports from TVEs rose          1.2 - the increase in exports
1.2 - promote TVEs export             from 68.0 billion in 1988              could mainly be attributed to
production in the cosstal              (16.9 percent of the total) to         broader trade reforms which
zones snd introduce reforms of         an estimated 113 billion in           sllow domestic firms to retain
the existing policy                   1990 (24.4 percent of oll              part of their receipts in hard
exports)                              currency, and from 1988  to
trsde foreign exchsnge in a
Parallel market
1.3 - formulate a 'companies
law* at the national level            1.3 - a 'Companies loaw  has
yet to be formulsted
1.4 - accelerate the implemen-
tation of the SPARK program            1.4 - the SPARK program was
designed to transfer technol-         continued
ogy to TVEs
1.5 - expand financial ser-
vices to TVEs                          1.5 - Due to nationwide credit
compreasion, the Governmenb's
intention to improve access to
credit through established
banking channels was not
achieved formatlon of new
privste lend;ng institutions
was placed on hold
1.8 - reform +he financial
sector by introducing liquida-         1.6 - eoth the private and
tion regulations, increasing          collective enterprise re9ulm-
mobility of fixed sasets and           tions outhori;ed rurel firms
encourageing joint ventures            to enter into international
cooperative ventures



- 98 -
ititontiona Indicated
Policy Ore.                              in policy letter                        Actions taken                            Commnt.
2  Regional Reform Pro-          2  RRPs wre dleeg,d to Im-             2  Local ctperimonts witl more         2  The RRtP  hod design and
groms                         provo  e  TVEs' business envi-        flexiblo models of joint-stock         coordination problems and were
ronment through testing of            companieo  were undertaken end         sevorefy affected by the oue-
oxperimental reform.  in too          directiveo doting from May             terity program. Furthor, the
province locale. with primer-          1001 outhoriz  such eaPorimen-        RfRPe componrnto vor. largely
ily pri,to ownerslip *nd ona          tation in othor areas.  By and         fragmented ond implement-td
pr,vinch locals with moinly            lorge, however, the RRP* did          without the benefit. of having
colIecf.ive ownorship to:             not schive t ..Ir obJ*ctivee          broad:r obJ ctiveo which might
be gonral ized for TVEf
throughout China,
2.1 - cefine  nterprise prop-         2.1 - a framework lopiol
erty  ri1hts and forms of own-         required to dsfi o rggh-
iop                                   onrship slid property c-
not be established in the main
experimental area
2.2 - ftablish liquidation            2.2 - RSAL's intonGion to
proceduroe                             introduc- experlmental bank-
ruptcy regulations for non-
state firms as. not accom-
ip imsed
2.3 - promote investment in
o* acted subs-ctors
2.4 - improve technical c asis-
tance to TVEe
2.5 - test ne ways to capi-
talize TVE
2.6 - eetabliih labor cx-
changes
2.7 - curtai I unwarranted
government ints,ference and
simplify administration and
regulation
V. Rural Investment
Systom
I  Notional policies             1  National policies aimed to:
1.1 - improve the organization
and managoment of public in-
vestment programs
1.2 - promote an enranicmn and
diversification of rural fi-
nanc;al services
1.3 - review the rural finar-         1.3 - the intended review of           1 3 - this in part relates to
cial ma-ket policies and pre-         the rural financial system             the reluctance of the People's
pare guidelines for a reform          could not be initiated                 lank of Chin,, to enunciate
of the rural banking system                                                  regulations for the informal
sector before regulations are
iasued for the form I sector.
Thiere Is slso limited eaper-
tie- available in Chino for
carrying out this kind of
study As a remedial measure,
the Bank has programmed a
study of rural financial mar-
kets in China/Mongolia Depart-
ment a CESW Program for FY92
2  Autonomous State              2  CATIC/SATIC was established         2  CATIC/SATIC ha*:
Investmen,t Conparation       In order to promot, various           - broadened it- capitaliza-
(CATIC/SATIC)                agribuaineos  enterprises and          tion,
foimal end informal *grlcul-          - fostered the creation of
tural financial intermedlari,a        seven SATIC 'clonea  at the
to mobilize the large cash            provincial and county level,
reserves held by farmers and          - provided technical assis-
previous communes                     tance, guidance and financial
support for the formation of
.rmers cooperative credit
woeietieo
- participated in the estab-
lishm iit of mort than S0 pro-
ceasing and marketing enter-
prises employing improved
technologies
- become the participating
partner in e'veral interna-
tional joint ventures
- erved we as the prit-ipal
channel for routing the RSAL's
counterpar'. proceeds to thle
experimentel program areas,
onlending in the proces thh
equivalent of US$ 100 million



- 99 -
Intention% i dicte d
Pol icy area                             in policy letter                        Actions taken                            Comments
3  Regional Reform               3  RRPs providing policy and
Programs io the formal        institutional support for
sec-or                        rurrl financial market.
Included exporIments In the
formel setor in one province
locale designed to:
3.t - promote comdpetition             3 1 - the RRP was partly              31  - this severely constrains
among state-owned bent. by             Implemented bafore flling              the ability of the etate-owsud
removing geogrephicel restric-        afoul of the national credit           banks to bnfit from this
tions on deposit taking and           plan *nd giiidolines ennouinced         increased fleilbility and use
eubeectorsI restrictions on            In late 198. Deposit takiRg,           It as bas   or commorcializing
lending                               in particular, has bean broad-         a greater r*Ier  of thbir lsnd-
ened, though  he flexibility           Ing opre tion
in lending has diminished and
controls over passive and
active lendlin; rates have 6een
increased since 1988
3.2 - lmprove the efficiency
and occountability of the
stats banks
3.3 - eatahliah interbank             3.3 - cleering procedures have         3.3 - thie inhibits  again the
markets and cl*ering houses           been streamlined, but the RRP          full c.meorcisliretion of
has not ben suthoeized to              fin;nc -. ;ntermedistion
estaboli*h an Interbank mar-ket        activities
4  Regional Reform               4  Experimaeits in the informal        4  Experimental reforms itt the        4  The PCR mission continues
Progrome In the               sector In one provinc  locale         Informal sector have demon-            to hsve doubts though about
informal sector              simed to cr*att and strengthen         strated the important -ole             tho finaneial viability of
savinog  to mobilize rural             they can play tapping into the        some of the*e institutions.
deposits and channel these to          residual assets of the former         These doutts underecore the
the TVEs                              communes                               need to carry out a rev is. of
the rural financial markets.



- 101 -
ANNEX
BORROWER'S COMMENTS
WORLDBANK TMSS
ZCZC S3AP2354 RCA 131 WWB1021
AS3AG AS3CO
.TCP FCA
* AS3AG *
A* *** *** *
WWRIY MFPRC CN
BEIJING, CHINA, OCT.10, 1991
FOR MR.JOSEPH GOLDBERG
CHIEF
CHINA AND MONGOLIA AGRICULTUx.E OPERATIONS
THE WORLD BANK, WASHINGTON D.C.USA.
RE RURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN AND CREDIT (CR.1932 AND LN. 2967-CHA)
WE ARE PLEASED TO INFORM YOU THAT AFTER CONSULTATION WITH DEPARTMENTS
CONCERNED WE HAVE NO OBJECTION TO THE DRAFT PCR ATTACHED TO YOUR
LETTER OF AUGUST 7, 1991.
BEST REGARDS, WORLD BANK DEPARTMENT, MOF, PR.CHINA
22486 MYPRC CN
248423 WORLD BANK
KKKKK
-10100605
RCA131
WBIO021
-10100524
NNN



