Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1932 CHA
(Rural Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1932 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1988 between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 25, 1988 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
adjustment of the Borrower's rural  sector (hereinafter  called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently 
needed imports required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Program and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) 
(the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
Page  2
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Program before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds 
of the Credit pursuant to the provisions  of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(b)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-two million two hundred forty thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 72,240,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Program, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
Page  3
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1990 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of June 
30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association  shall  reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1998 and  ending May 1, 2023. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2008, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
Page  4
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, but 
in the first instance, not later than June 30, 1989, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the
Program.
(b)
Prior to such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained  sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agreement; and
 
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINAMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Page  6
By /s/ Qian Yong Nian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                    Amount of       Amount of
                   the Credit       the Loan
                    Allocated       Allocated         % of
                   (Expressed      (Expressed       Expendi-
                     in SDR         in Dollar       tures to
  Category         Equivalent)     Equivalent)     be Financed
(1)  Commo-         18,060,000      50,000,000     100% of
     dities                                        foreign
     and raw                                       expendi-
     materials                                     tures
     for rural
     sector
(2)  Agricul-       48,160,000     133,330,000     100% of
     tural                                         foreign
     inputs                                        expendi-
                                                   tures
(3)  Machinery,      6,020,000      16,670,000     100% of
     equipment                                     foreign
     and spare                                     expendi-
     parts for                                     tures
     rural
     sector
                   ___________     ___________
      TOTAL        72,240,000     200,000,000
2.
For the purposes of  this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Page  7
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B below, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), with the following modifications:
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded commodities 
may be procured through organized international commodity markets or other methods of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 
each may be awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser 
of such goods acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decision
 
1.
With respect to each contract referred to in Part A of this Schedule the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit or the Loan Account 
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the 
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the 
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the 
Association and the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part B of 
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission 
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit or 
the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the 
Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of 
such contract.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above where payments under 
a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of 
such contract or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 or  paragraph 2 above as the 
case may be, shall be furnished to the Association and the Bank as part of the 
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit or the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$50,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit and Loan Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
Page  8
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to 
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or from the Loan Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting 
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
can be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement, or 
directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions 
applicable thereto; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and of the Loan, minus 
the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Program, 
shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association 
or the Bank, refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount for 
crediting to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be.
Page  9
