Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14636
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
KEDUNG OMBO MVLTIPURPOSE DAM AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2543-IND)
JUNE 19, 1995
Agriculture Operations
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency                                       Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Appraisal Report  US$1                                 Rpl ,100
Economic Analysis (mid 1993) US$1           =          Rp2, 100
PCR Date (April 1994) US$1                             Rp2,150
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BWOU        -      Basin Water Operations Unit
DGWRD       -      Directorate General of Water Resources Development
GOI         -      Government of Indonesia
JIWMP       -      Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Resources Management Project
IHE         -      Institute of Hydraulic Engineering at Bandung
IPEDA       -      luran Pembangunan Daerah (land tax)
ISSP II     -      Irrigation Sub-Sector Project II
O&M         -      Operations and Maintenance (of irrigation systems)
PLN         -      Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (power generation authority)
PRIS        -      Provincial Irrigation Service
R&R         -      Resettlement and Rehabilitation (of affected populations)
SWCU        -      Satya Wacana Christian University



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 19, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project (Loan 2543-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Indonesia-Kedong Ombo
Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation project (Loan 2543-IND, approved in FY85) prepared by the East
Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The principal objective of the project was to increase cropping intensities, yields and
production-of rice and other food crops-by developing water storage on the Serang River and
constructing new or remodelled structures in four irrigation schemes below the dam. About 87,000
farm families on 60,000 hectares were to benefit from the irrigation; about 5,400 families were to be
displaced by the reservoir. Power produced at the dam site for the national grid, water supplied to
local villages and towns, and flood control for farmlands and townships below the dam were other
expected benefits.
The PCR presents an exhaustive account of the successful irrigation program and the
poorly executed, and highly confrontational, resettlement operation. The engineering works were
completed on schedule and were of high quality. Cropping intensities have already reached appraisal
targets, while area and yield targets were exceeded. While rice prices expected at appraisal proved
overoptimistic, municipal water benefits (not assessed at appraisal) turned out to be substantial. On
balance, the PCR re-estimates the rate of return at 12.4 percent, still below the 17.4 percent
projected at appraisal, but still satisfactory. Two innovative technical operations that would have
complemented the main irrigation works were less well implemented and have yet to show positive
results.
The slow and painful resettlement process, attracting criticism by local NGOs and the
world press, is described in the PCR. The criticism was largely warranted and induced corrective
action by the borrower and the Bank. However, subsequent sample surveys of the 5,300 affected
families, most of whom elected to relocate locally rather than transmigrate, show that 70 percent had
post-project incomes below the average of a nearby group of farmers unaffected by the dam.
The mishandling of the resettlement operation by both Government and the Bank is
sternly criticized in the PCR. Neglect of this component at the planning and appraisal stages,
misreporting by Indonesian authorities, failure by the Bank to check the situation on the ground,
mismatch between domestic policies and practices and Bank requirements, lack of popular
participation and weak coordination characterized resettlement operations. On the other hand, the
impressive engineering, water supply and agricultural outcomes together with recent (albeit
imperfect) progress in meeting resettlement requirements justify a marginally satisfactory outcome
rating for the project, since its major objectives were met and the net re-estimated rate of return
This docuLment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
appears acceptable. Institutional development is rated as modest and the sustainability of both the
infrastructure and agricultural improvements is rated as likely given Indonesia's improving operations
and maintenance practices.
This project demonstrates that impoundment projects requiring resettlement cannot be
appraised simply on the basis of economic and technical criteria. Social criteria are equally
important. The mechanisms for consulting, transferring, and compensating the affected households
must be handled in careful accord with Bank directives and with the priority they deserve. Given the
serious shortcomings with respect to the critical resettlement dimension of the project-and the lack
of compliance with Bank operational directives-Bank and borrower performance are rated as
unsatisfactory.
An audit is planned.
Attachment



INDONESIA
KEDUNG OMIBO MULTIPRPOSE DAM AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(L. 2543-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .............. ..................................... i
Evaluation Summary ....................................                                         ii
PART I:           PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....... .. 1
Project Identity ................................... 1
Project Background ................................ 1
Project Objectives and Description  ......................  2
Project Design and Organization  .......................  3
Project Implementation  .............................  4
Project Results ...................................  6
Project Sustainability   ..............................  8
Bank Performance  ................................  8
Borrower Performance  .............................  9
Project Relationship  ...............................  9
Consulting Services ................................  9
Project Documentation and Data ....................... 10
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... 11
General Conmnent                            .....  11
Comments on Bank's Review (Part I) .............                 . ...... 11
Bank's Performance                ..............................   12
Lessons Learned            .................................   12
Relationship between Borrower and the Bank ...........                ...   13
PART Im:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION .14
Related Bank Loans andlor Credits .14
Project Timetable .14
Loan Disbursements .15
Project Implementation  ... .......................... 16



Project Costs and Flmancing .........................                 18
A. Project Costs .1... 18
B. Project inancing  ... ....                    . .... .....  19
Project Results .....       .    .........  . . . ... .. .      .... 20
A. Direct Results               0........ ... ...... 20
B. Economic Analysis .............................. 20
C. FSnancial Impact ... ...          .. .     ... .... ..... 21
D. Studies ....................2
Status of Major Covenants ........................... 22
Use of Bank Resources  ....... . . . .....                           24
A. Staff Inputs .2...... . .. ......... 24
B. Missions                            ..25
Mbp:            Schematic Map of Project Aa    6..26
Flgure:        Water Requirements and Releases in the Kedung Ombo
System .27
Annexes:   1. Project Implementation .28
2. Financial and Economic Analysis .33
3. Resettlement .56
Map: IBRD 18529



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
KEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2543-IND)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kedung Ombo Multipurpose
Dam and Irrigation Project for which Loan No. 2543 in the amount of US$156 million was
approved on May 16, 1985. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1993, two years behind
schedule. Most of the Loan (US$154.6 million) was disbursed and the outstanding balance of
US$1.4 million was cancelled in May 1994.
This PCR was prepared in accordance with the guidelines issued in June 1989.
Drafts for Parts I and m were prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme which visited Indonesia from 7 to 26 April 1994, and were reviewed by the Bank.
The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5346a-IND), dated April 24, 1985; the
World Bank's supervision reports and project files; field visits to the various facilities financed
under the project and to two resettlement areas; and discussions with relevant Government
officials, beneficiaries, resettled families and concerned NGOs.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
KEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Ln. 2543-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMWARY
Objectives
i.        The project objectives were to increase food production and employment from
59,340 ha in the Jratunseluna Basin in Central Java; control flooding in about 10,000 ha of
agricultural land and 5,000 ha of urban land; supplement municipal water supplies for about 300
villages and towns in the irrigation area; generate hydro-power; and improve water management.
The project provided funds for building a 61m high clay core rockfill dam at Kedung Ombo on
the upper Serang River, along with weirs and a barrage downstream; and for
constructing/upgrading irrigation and drainage canals for 25,100 ha of rainfed land and 34,240
ha of irrigated lands. The project also envisaged provision of 13.6 million m3 of water for
municipal use; installation of power generation facilities (33.9 MVA) and transmission lines; and
technical assistance for monitoring, studies and training. New technologies to improve water
management were to be introduced through installation of automatic hydro-technical gates on a
pilot basis; and establishment of a centre using telemetry to provide timely flood warning and
to schedule allocation of water to various irrigation systems. The project involved resettlement
of 5,390 families, of which it was anticipated that 90% would transmigrate and 10% would
resettle locally. Total project costs were estimated at Rp3l1 billion (US$283 million) and in
support a Bank loan of US$156 million was approved in May 1985.
Implementation Experience
ii.       Most engineering works related to the irrigation and power generation components
were well implemented and completed on schedule. The contractors, consultants and the Project
Office worked well and there were no problems between the Bank and GOI. However, some
tertiary canals still need to be completed and there are a few problems with the major structures
which need to be monitored (paras 5.2 and 5.3). The implementation of the innovative project
components (automatic gates and telemetry) proved difficult. Some project staff felt that these
technologies were not suitable for Indonesian conditions, and there were problems of
construction quality and delays caused by changes in procurement and tendering procedures (para
5.4). Project costs at closing, which was two years behind schedule, were estimated at Rp496
billion, about 60% above the appraisal target but, because of the devaluation of the Rupiah, the
US Dollar cost of the project was the same as at appraisal. Most of the loan (US$154.6 million)
was disbursed and US$1.4 million was cancelled in May 1994.



Resettlement
iii.      At the time water impounding had started in April 1989, most of the affected land
had been acquired but few of the displaced people had transmigrated. Land prices in the nearby
areas had risen and the compensation amounts were not sufficient to purchase land of equal
productivity in those areas. In 1989/90, the Bank and GOI also came under severe criticism,
both domestically and internationally, for allegedly not preparing a satisfactory resettlement
programme. Greater efforts were made to resettle people locally and develop alternative
income-generating opportunities such as fishing and aquaculture. The present situation is that
1,161 households have transmigrated, 669 families have been locaUy resettled on the sites
developed by the project, and 3,131 families have resettled themselves in adjacent villages.
About 307 families stiU reside in the Greenbelt - Government acquired land in the immediate
vicinity of the reservoir which should not be cultivated (para 5.5). Despite initial difficulties,
families who have transmigrated appear to have incomes above those they obtained previously.
Families who accepted the initial cash compensation package and resettled themselves, or were
resettled locally by the Government, have fewer income earning assets and are likely to have
been adversely affected by the project (para 6.3). Because of the complexity of resettlement in
this case and its relevance for future resettlement operations, Annex 3 provides a more in-depth
reatment of the project's resettlement issues.
Project Results
iv.       The reliability and quantity of water supplied to about 60,065 ha have been
substantially increased. As a result there has been a substitution of lower value Palawija crops
by paddy in the dry season, and yields and cropping intensities have increased. Total paddy
production has risen by 380,000 tons (150%) and farm incomes by 35-150% (paras 6.1 and 6.5).
The project has also resulted in increased flood protection, power generation, fishing and
tourism. The project is economically viable (ERR=12.4%) if all project benefits are evaluated
and not just the agricultural and power benefits, as was done at appraisal. The ERR is lower
than that estimated at appraisal (17.4%), largely due to the lower economic price of paddy (para
6.6). Recent studies show that no major environmental problems have been created by the
project, other than those arising from resettlement (para 6.4).
Project Sustainability
v.        Project benefits are likely to be sustainable. Key reforms are being implemented
in the irrigation sector which would improve cost recovery and O&M. These reforms are being
supported through a number of Bank funded projects (para 7.1).
Lessons Learnt
vi. (a)    Large dams can be a viable investment, provided that resettlement aspects are
adequately covered and all associated benefits fully exploited. In addition to
agriculture and power, an increasingly important source of benefits is the supply of
water to medium and large cities where demand for water is growing rapidly.



iv
(b)     Implementation of an involuntary resettlement programme is a difficult and
controversial activity. It requires detailed, but flexible and participatory planning,
combined with good implementation. Institutional responsibilities, capacities, and
responsiveness tend to be particularly problematic and require close attention during
design and monitoring during implementation. Sufficient funds need to be allocated
to provide adequate productive resources for the resettlers.
(c)     The introduction of new technologies requires strong commitment on the part of the
Government and those involved with implementation. There is a need to ensure that
these pilot/research activities are properly evaluated and relevant lessons drawn
therefrom.






I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
KEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Ln.2543-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name : Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Loan No.    : 2543 - IND
RVP Unit    : East Asia Region
Country      : Indonesia
Sector       : Agriculture
Sub-sector    : Water Resources Development
2.   Background
2.1  GOI gives high priority to developing water resources in order to improve irrigation and
promote agricultural growth; ensure adequate municipal water supplies; reduce the risk of
floods; and generate electricity. In Java, which has 60% of all irrigated area, the main priorities
at the time of appraisal were to: improve irrigation through better operations and maintenance
(O&M), and construction of multipurpose storage dams and better tertiary networks; increase
municipal water supplies, especially for cities such as Jakarta, Semarang and Surabaya which
do not have sufficient good quality ground water; improve flood control works in order to
reduce extensive damage to rural and urban areas; and increase hydro power generating capacity.
Under the Repelita IV program (1984-89), the GOI had planned to invest US$4.1 billion (at
current prices and exchange rates) in the development of water resources. The bulk of this
investment was to complete ongoing works and only limited funds were allocated for undertaing
new large scale irrigation projects. The World Bank has been closely involved with irngation
development in Indonesia and under Repelita IV the focus of Bank assistance was on
strengthening the irrigation services; improving O&M; and supporting a limited number of large,
technically complex projects.
2.2 Among the large scale projects, GOI attached the highest priority to construction of the
Kedung Ombo dam on the Serang River, one of the five rivers in the Jratunseluna basin (Central
Java). The dam was to be located about 75 km east of Semarang and serve an area which was
without water in the dry season but subject to flooding in the wet season. The Bank had
supported previous development efforts in the Jratunseluna basin, most of which focused on
improving the irrigation, drainage and flood control systems, rather than increasing overall water



2
availability. The Bank had also provided support for preparation of a master plan of the
Jratunseluna basin as well as detailed studies and designs of the Kedung Ombo dam.
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1  Project Objectives: The major project objectives were to increase food production and
employment from 59,340 ha in the Jratunseluna basin; control flooding in about 10,000 ha of
agricultural land and 5,000 ha of urban land; supplement municipal water supplies for about 300
villages and towns in the irrigation area; generate hydro-power; and improve water management.
3.2 Project Description: The main project components were:
a) Dam and Irrigation Development: Improvement of infrastructure on the upper
Serang River through: construction of a 61 m high clay core rockfill dam at Kedung
Ombo, a weir at Sidorejo and a barrage at Klambu; raising of the existing weir at
Sedadi; construction or improvement of irrigation and drainage systems on 25,100
ha of rainfed lands and 34,240 ha of irrigated lands, complementing drainage and
flood control improvements under the Irrigation XIV Project (Ln. 181 1-IND);
provision of 13.6 million m3 of water for municipal and drinking purposes" and
installation, on a pilot basis, of automatic hydro-technical gates in parts of the
Sidorejo irrigation area.
b)   Power Development: Installation of a power station at Kedung Ombo (28.5 MVA),
and three micro-hydro power stations (1.8 MVA each) at Sidorejo, Sedadi and
Klambu, along with sub-stations and power transmission lines.
c)   Flood Warning and Water Monitoring Centre: Establishment of a centre to
monitor rainfall and water flows in the upper Jratunseluna basin, using telemetry to
provide timely flood warning and schedule water delivery to the various irrigation
systems in the basin. The centre was to be linked to the Bureau of Meteorology and
Geophysics in Semarang for advance warning of rainfall.
d) Technical Assistance: Provision of technical assistance for: training in dam safety,
water management and water control monitoring; preparing studies for the proposed
Jatigede Dam; monitoring the resettlement programme; and updating maps for
reclassification for land tax (IPEDA) purposes.
3.3 Resettlement: Work on assessing the resettlement needs of the project had been under
way since 1981V and indicated that some 5,390 families (23,380 people) would have to be
relocated. The affected population was to be offered land compensation as well as the standard
package of benefits offered to transmigrants (free land, subsidies, etc.), or, if they chose to
" This is equivalent to the provisions made in the SAR (0.006 It/ha/sec for 25,100 ha and 0.009 It/sec/ha for
34,240 ha).
V Carried out by the Institute of Ecology, Padjadjaran University, supervised by international consultants.



3
remain in the area, preferential training and the possibility of working in local public works
programmes. The latest survey available at the time of appraisal (1983) showed that 75% of the
people wanted to transmigrate, and based on the reported experience of similar projects in
Central Java this was expected to rise to 90%. Representatives of the affected villages had
visited the proposed transmigration sites in Irian Jaya and Sumatra.
3.4 Project Cost and Financing: Total project costs over the five year implementation period
were estimated at Rp311.4 billion (US$283.1 million). The estimated base cost of civil works
was Rpl56.6 billion (US$142.4 million) of which 38% was for the damn and power station and
62% for the downstream irrigation works. Provision for resettlement included Rp28.1 billion
(US$25.5 million) for acquisition of 6,207 ha of land, and RpO. 15 billion (US$0.15 million) for
consultants to monitor the programme. In support of the project a Bank loan of US$156 million
was approved in May 1985 and became effective in November 1985. GOI was to provide
US$105.8 million from its own funds and US$21.3 million, for the power generating equipment,
was to be financed by export credits.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.1 Project Strategy and Scope: The project followed on a number of Bank supported
interventions in the irrigation sub-sector and in the Jratunseluna basin. The project was based
on a sound strategy of increasing aggregate water availability, to complement past investments
in downstream works; improving O&M; and introducing new technologies (automatic gates and
telemetry). The importance of and need for the dam and irrigation works were well understood
by the project authorities. The new technologies were less well understood and some of the
project staff felt that these innovations were not appropriate for Indonesian conditions. The
project was large and involved work on a number of rather complex structures, but this was
necessary if some of the major problems of the Jratunseluna basin were to be adequately
addressed.
4.2 Project Organization and Design: At appraisal, detailed designs had been completed for
all the major structures. The main implementing agencies involved were the Jratunseluna River
Basin Development Project Office, for the dam and irrigation works; the power generating
authority (PLN) for the power component; and the Institute of Hydraulic Engineering (IHE), for
training and the Flood Warning and Water Management Centre. Each of these agencies had
clearly defined activities to implement and were well experienced in the particular areas of
specialization. In addition, the project was assisted by consultants who had a long association
with irrigation in Indonesia and in the Jratunseluna basin. The resettlement activities were
mostly left to the Government and special committees were set up at provincial and district
levels to supervise and coordinate this work. However, the project did not provide any funds
for developing infrastructure and other facilities for resettlers. Also, the concept of "affected
families" was not clearly defined and no registration was undertaken of individuals eligible for
resettlement benefits. This made it difficult to target interventions and fully monitor the
situation, especially in cases where younger family members had moved out of their parents'
houses or families had split up. For some of the technical assistance components, such as



4
studies of the Jatigede dam, the project only provided a convenient financing vehicle and these
activities had little relevance to overall project strategy.
5.   Project Implementation
5.1 Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up: The Loan was approved in May 1985 and
became effective in November 1985 following award of the contracts for construction and
supervision of the dam.
5.2 Major Structural Works: Most engineering works were well implemented and completed
on schedule. However, some cracks have recently appeared on the crest of the dam and there
has been subsidence on the upstream face. An intemational dam safety panel carried out an
inspection in November 1993 and concluded that the cracks were not serious but should be
monitored. The Klambu barrage appears to have been built too close to a tight bend in the river
and flow conditions are not uniform across the barrage. Since construction, large amounts of
silt have been deposited on the left bank creating further irregularities in flows. The situation
should be monitored and remedial measures, such as regular dredging, may be required. The
power generating and transmission facilities are in place and are performing well, except for the
station at Sidorejo weir which was severely darnaged by floods in January 1993 and has not yet
been repaired.
5.3 Downstream Irrigation and Drainage Works: Downstream works have also been
completed except for construction of tertiaries on about 633 ha in Klambu Kanan. These are
expected to be completed in 1994/95 with GOI funds. At the time of appraisal only preliminary
designs were available and during the course of detailed design and construction some changes
were made. The number of minor structures rose as, following appraisal, the Government
reduced the size of tertiary irrigation blocks from 100-150 ha to 50-70 ha. Other significant
changes were an expansion of the Klambu right canal to allow for the possibility of further
downstream area development, and financing for an intake on the left bank of Klambu barrage
which would feed a canal taking water to Semarang city. This canal, which will have a head
capacity of 3.5 m3/sec, is under construction with Government funds. The total benefiting area
is about the same as at appraisal although there is variation in the area irrigated from the
different weirs and barrages (Annex 1, Table 2).
5.4 Other Components: The training and technical assistance components were implemented
without major problems. However, the innovative project components proved difficult. The
construction works associated with the installation of the automatic gates were not of the
standard required and a number of remedial works had to be carried out. The system became
fully operational only at the end of 1992. With regard to the telemetry component, it was
originally envisaged that this component would be implemented by a single contractor who
would also oversee operations for a period of four years and train local staff. Following
appraisal a number of changes were made in specifications and tendering procedures which
caused long delays. Also, the proposed radar linkage with the Bureau of Meteorology and
Geophysics was dropped but a link with IHE, Bandung, was provided. Procurement and
installation of equipment were only completed in December 1993 and some minor work still



5
remains to be done to make it fully operational. Thereafter, the system will need to be tested
and calibrated and staff adequately trained, which will take some more time.
5.5 Resettlement: By the time that work on the dam was complete and impounding had
started (April 1989), the bulk of land required had been acquired and compensation paid -
usually in cash at the village itself. Land acquisition was generally well implemented but some
750 families refused to accept payment and the amounts due to them were deposited in the local
courts for collection by the persons concerned. The area of land finally acquired was 9,498
ha" (compared with the SAR estimate of 6,207 ha), of which 70% was in the reservoir area
and 30% in the irrigation area. Prices paid for land acquired appear to have foUowed GOI
guidelines and were increased by 10-15% every year. Most of the affected families preferred
to resettle locally and only a small proportion had transmigrated. Land prices in the nearby
areas had risen and the compensation amounts were often not sufficient to purchase land of equal
productivity in those areas. In 1989/90, the Bank and GOI also came under severe criticism,
both domestically and internationally, for allegedly ignoring the rights of people living in the
area and not preparing a satisfactory resettlement programme.
5.6 The GOI and the Bank responded to these developments by making greater efforts to
resettle people satisfactorily. Areas near the reservoir, which were under the jurisdiction of the
Forestry Department or set aside for grazing, were obtained and developed to provide land,
housing and other facilities. The Loan Agreement was amended in July 1989 to provide funds
for this, as well as for improving facilities at the transmigration sites. Efforts were also made
to provide extension advice on alternative income-generating opportunities such as fishing and
aquaculture. The amounts allocated for developing the resettlement and transmigration sites
were increased three more times in subsequent years. Eventually, a total of Rpl1.5 billion
(US$5.6 million) was spent on these areas, and most works have been well implemented. The
present situation is that of the original families>, 1,161 households have transmigrated, 669
families have been locally resettled on the sites developed by the project, and 3,131 families
have resetted themselves in adjacent viUages. Some of the families living in the Greenbelt have
refused to move and 34 households have filed cases in the courts. Details are provided in
Annex 3.
5.7 Project Costs and Disbursements: The project closed on 31 December 1993, two years
behind schedule, mainly because of delays in resettlement activities and the telemetry
component. In Rupiah terms, the project costs at closing were estimated at Rp495.5 billion,
about 60% above the appraisal target but, because of the devaluation of the Rupiah, the US
Dollar cost of the project was the same as at appraisal. Most of the loan (US$154.6 million)
was disbursed and US$1.4 million was cancelled in May 1994.
This includes land for the 'Greenbeltt - land in the immediate vicinity of the reservoir which should not be
cultivated.
2/ Based on a study carried out by Satya Wacana Christian Uuiversity in 1993. The total number of households
on which data are provided is 5,268 as opposed to 5,390 at appraisal. The numbers do not cover families
which have formed through splitting up of the original household. There are 414 such split families living in
the Greenbelt area and 407 in the Government resettlement area.



6
5.8 Project Risks: The main project risk identified in the SAR was that of possible
implementation delays due to slow land acquisition. As it turned out, land acquisition and dam
impounding went ahead on schedule but not enough attention was paid to the welfare of the
resettled population. The other major risk identified was poor O&M but this problem appears
unlikely to materialize (para 7.1).
6.   Project Results
6.1 Irrigation and Drainage: The reliability and quantity of water supplied to about 60,065
ha have been substantially increased as a result of the project and about 87,000 families have
benefited. Data on actual water releases from the dam and on diversion at Sidorejo, Sedadi and
Klambu were collected and, although there are a number of questions about their accuracy, they
strongly suggest that water supplies are generally adequate for planned cropping intensities
(Annex 1, Figure 1). Farmers in the benefiting areas confirm the improvement in water supplies
since the completion of the project. At present irrigation releases follow a fixed fortnightly
schedule but a more flexible system of operations should be possible once the Flood Forecasting
and Water Monitoring Centre becomes operational. Higher water supply has enabled farmers
to increase cropping intensities from 188% to almost 230%. In addition, there has been a
substitution of Palawija crops by paddy in the dry season. The total area planted to paddy is
120,130 ha, compared with 67,480 ha in the without project situation, while the area under
Palawija crops dropped from 43,260 ha to 17,270 ha. There have also been significant increases
in paddy yields" as a result of better irrigation and drainage, and total paddy production has
consequently risen by 380,000 tons (150%). About 30,000 ha in the lower Serang basin are
flood prone and the construction of the dam and other drainage works have increased the flood
protection level from a 20 years' return period to a 100 years' return period. Last year, despite
the Sidorejo station being out of commission, 76 Gwh of electricity was generated. Fishing and
aquaculture in the reservoir have increased, with about 1,000 families involved. Tourism around
the reservoir is developing rapidly and last year about 300,000 people visited the area. Water
supplied for municipal and industrial purposes is still limited. However, it is expected to rise
sharply to over 150 million rn3 per year once the canals and structures to take water to
Semarang, Demak and Rembang are completed.
6.2 New Technologies to Improve O&M: It is still too early to assess the benefits of the
new technologies introduced under the project. The telemetry component needs some more time
before it is fully operational and reliable. The automatic gates were initially not constructed to
standard and, although these problems have been corrected, the system is still not being operated
optimally. Water distribution mostly follows a fixed schedule and is regulated through the use
of the manual over-ride gates at the primary intake as well as at secondary and tertiary levels.
At field level, farmers sometimes manipulate the small automatic gates by placing stones on the
floats. Monitoring of the system is also poor and available data on water releases are not fully
reliable. A study was made in early 1992 to assess the new gates and concluded that the
investment cost of the new system was not different to that of the traditional systems but that
Paddy yields rose to 4.9-5.4 t/ha in the wet season, an increase of 29-50%; and to 5.2-5.6 t/ha in the dry
season, an increase of 22-40%. See Annex 2, Table 3.



7
it was not possible to assess its operational efficiency as the system was not yet functioning
properly.
6.3 Resettlement: A monitoring study of the resettled population carried out in 1993 by the
Satya Wacana Christian University (SWCU) indicates that 72% of the families are worse off
following resettlement. Six years after resettlement, families who accepted the compensation and
resettled themselves (59% of the resettled population) earn somewhat less than their neighbors
who weren't resettled, with a wide range. Families resettled to sites provided by the government
earn nearly 25% less. Incomes have declined because productivity of the replacement lands is
lower than land previously cultivated by these farmers. However, the Government has also
spent substantial amounts on this group (RplO-14 million per family compared with about Rp4
million for those who resettled themselves - Annex 1, Table 3) to improve soil fertility and to
provide various services such as houses and other infrastructure. Although this group lags behind
the others, the corrective action program has begun to show signs of sigificant success in
improving income. With improved farming practices, this group may have sufficient assets to
restore incomes to their previous level.
6.4 The two groups that have done relatively well are Transmigrants (22% of the total) and
farmers who have remained behind in the Greenbelt (6%). Despite initial difficulties, current
incomes of transmigrants is well above those of local residents and groups which have resettled
in other ways. Many of those farning in the Greenbelt have good income earning possibilities
through agriculture and fishing - they have access to the reservoir and soils are generally good.
However, cultivation in the draw down area may not be sustainable in the long run. Additional
details are provided in Annex 3.
I 0,5~~ectegbdz 1, 'cW:grmD ts                LSiltr 
i. ................ ... :- .   ----.-.- . .-...... . ........................  . .. .-
.....I:....
P~ *ap~it jucogne  20,000  $5,600 . 15,60017,700          32,500
6.5  Environmental inpact: Recent studies show that no major environmental problems have
been created by the project, other than those associated with resettlement.  Despite the
intensification of agriculture, water quality is generally good and there appears to be no increase
in levels of nitrates in the water. Sediment deposition in the reservoir over the last five years
(1989-94) has been 11.5 million m3 compared with a total storage capacity of 723 million ri3 and
a dead storage capacity of 88 million n3.
6.6 FInancial Analysis: At the time of appraisal it was anticipated that farm incomes would
rise by 60-145%. Farm models prepared using data collected by the consultants and the project
office, as well as information from fanners and agricultural extension officers, show that, in
fact, farm incomes have increased substantially by between 49% and 144% (Annex 2, Table 6).



8
6.7 Economic Analysis: Aggregating the economic value of all project benefits including
agriculture, power generation, fishing, tourism, flood control and municipal water supply", the
re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 12.4%. If only agricultural and
power generation benefits are considered, as was done at appraisal, the ERR would be 8.5 %.
These ERRs are well below that calculated at appraisal (17.4%). The lower re-estimated ERR
are almost entirely due to changes in prices, particularly the economic price of paddy, which
fell, in real terms, by 32% between 1984 and 1993. If real paddy prices had remained at their
1984 levels and if the same conversion factors as in the SAR were applicable to labour (50%)
and construction items (80-90%), the ERR would have been unchanged from appraisal, even if
only agricultural and power benefits are consideredv.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.1  Project benefits are likely to be sustainable.  All conveyance and drainage works
constructed under the project are to be handed over to the Provincial Irrigation Service (PRIS).
Although in some areas PRIS has insufficient funds, the project area is covered by the ongoing
IrTigation Sub-Sector Project II (ISSP II) and would be provided about Rp 35,000 per ha which
should be enough for proper O&M. With regard to the dam, major structures, and the Flood
Warning and Water Monitoring Centre, GOI will provide adequate funding for O&M, some of
which may come from other sources. In the case of the dam and appurtenant structures, the
annual O&M costs of which are estimated at Rp 800 million annually, the project authorities
have requested PLN to pay 50% of this cost, as opposed to 50% of the cost of only the intake
and tunnel, as was specified in the Loan Agreement. The Government has also decided to
extend to all Java the Irrigation Service Fee which previously was only applicable to some pilot
areas. Technical support, including support to a new Basin Water Operations Unit (BWOU),
which will be set up to manage the dam and major structures, will be provided by the recently
approved Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Resources Management Project (JIWMP).
8.   Bank Performance
8.1 Bank performance was generally good, with the exception of resettlement. Strong support
was provided during preparation, both in terms of funding and technical supervision. During
implementation, supervision of the engineering aspects was good and during the main
construction period staff continuity was maintained. Bank performance on resettlement was not
satisfactory, however, particularly during project appraisal and early supervision. Concerns over
the quality of the resettlement planning that were raised by OPS/AGR were largely ignored.
These focused on the lack of an overall organizational framework, financial commitments for
local resettlement, and clear connections between the resettlement program and general
transmigration programs.   Each of these concerns became a major problem  during
" Of these, the most important is municipal water supply, which by the year 2000 would have a social value
equivalent to almost 38% of total project benefits (Annex 2, Table 14).
v  Bank projections now give a range for future commodity prices (at 70% confidence level) as well as a point
estimate. If international rice prices were to be at the top of this range, the parity price for paddy would be
the same as at appraisal in real terms.



9
implementation. Project supervision missions did not visit the resettlement sites. Independent
monitoring was delayed by more than two years, despite being a key element in the resettlement
program. Although deprived of the information sources built into the project's design, the Bank
also ignored submissions from local NGOs who were identifying resettlement issues as the
project proceeded. After 1989, the Bank paid substantially more attention to resettlement and
a number of supervision missions included specialized staff to look at these aspects. The Bank
also responded in a flexible and timely manner to requests to amend the Loan Agreement, which
over the implementation period was amended a total of four times.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1 Borrower performance has been good as far as the major civil works are concerned. GOI
gave high priority to the project, and staff and counterpart funds have been provided in a timely
manner. However, the Government did not give sufficient importance to the telemetry
component and some decisions took a long time to take and delayed the implementation. There
were also a number of cost revisions (in Rupiah terms) on various civil works contracts. The
Government did not implement the Loan Covenant regarding cost recovery (para 3.04 of the
Loan Agreement) whereby a part of the IPEDA collected was to be allocated for O&M of
irrigation works. Presently, farmers in the project area still do not pay any charges to
Government for irrigation, drainage and flood protection services but this will change with the
extension of the Irrigation Service Fee to all Java. GOI failed to appreciate the dynamic nature
of the resettlement process. Lack of an overall resettlement organization led to institutional
paralysis when it became clear that most people would not transmigrate, and new programs were
needed. Implementation of the local resettlement packages was also handicapped by the lack of
an effective resettlement organization. In the early years, local authorities concerned with the
resettlement impasse attempted to resolve the matter directly, contravening Indonesian laws and
procedural requirements for acquiring land. On the other hand, the project authorities and GOI
reacted expeditiously when it became clear that changes were needed in the resettlement
program. Good senior staff were assigned to this program, and land and other resources made
available to the extent possible.
10. Project Relationship
10.1 The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the project period was good
and there were no major areas of disagreement.
11. Consulting Services
11.1 Consultants: The project used a number of foreign and local consultants for detailed
designs, construction supervision, training and studies, and most of them performed well. The
project also employed the services of an NGO to help the locally resettled population increase
their farm output and incomes. The efforts of the NGO made a significant impact on incomes
despite the limited duration of its activities.



10
11.2 Contractors: The dam was constructed by a foreign contractor working together with
a local counterpart. The work was carried out expeditiously and to a good standard as was the
work on the major structures and downstream irrigation and drainage works. In the case of the
telemetry component, because of delays in awarding the contract there was very little time for
implementation and the systems are not yet fully functional.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1 The SAR and Loan Agreement, along with technical documents contained in the
preparation/feasibility reports, provided sufficient guidance for implementation of most of the
engineering works. However, resettlement aspects were not adequately covered. Also, the
arrangements for sharing O&M costs with PLN was inadequate and its revision has proved
difficult.
12.2 The project office had hired a consultant to prepare a draft PCR. This contained most of
the information required regarding project performance and achievements. Along with the
various other studies, such as that on resettlement, it provided a good data base for the
preparation of this PCR.



I1
P A R T II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    General Comments
In general, the contents of Part I match what was actually performed by the project
except some minor items described hereafter. For Part mH, there is no comment because the
presented statistical information is adequate and accurate. The project has complied with all
major covenants except Loan Agreement Section LA 5.03 (a): "Ensuring efficient use of water
made available by irrigation system constructed under project", which has been delayed due to
slow implementation of the telemetry component.
2.    Comments on Bank's Review (Part I)
2.1   Para 2.2. Before Kedung Ombo was built, more than 40,000 ha were irrigated by the
Sedadi weir. The command area was rehabilitated by PROSIDA project. The area without
water in the dry season were only in Juana valley (Kelambu Kanan and Kelambu Kiri) and South
Grobogan with a total area of approx. 15,000 ha.
2.2   Para 4.2. Government committees were set up at provincial and district levels to
supervise and coordinate resettlement activities and GOI provided funds. Soon after completion
of the dam the project provided funds for developing infrastructure and other facilities for
resettlers:
a)   three resettlement locations were prepared in Kayen (40 ha), Kedungmulyo (350
ha) and Kedungrejo villages (58 ha), close to the reservoir area; and
b)   three transmigration areas were developed in Muko-muko (Bengkulu), Air
Seluma, Air Manjunto (Sumatera Selatan) and Perkebunan Inti Rakyat (iambi).
2.3   Para 5.2. Some cracks have recently appeared on the crest of the dam and there has been
subsidence on the upstream face. According to an international dam safety panel, the cracks
were not serious. A monitoring program for detecting the behavior of the cracks has been
carried out, and it was concluded that the subsidence on the upstream face of the dam has
stopped. Funds for dredging silt in front of Klambu barrage has been proposed in FY95/96.
It will become routine maintenance thereafter.
2.4   Para 5.3. The construction of 633 ha in Klambu Kanan was completed in FY94/95 with
GOI funds and is now in the maintenance period of the related contract. The size reduction of
tertiary irrigation blocks from 100-150 ha to 50-70 ha was based on design standards issued by
DGWRD in 1986.



12
2.5   Para 5.4. The automatic gates at Sidorejo command area were of the standard required
and the installation was supervised by experts from foreign consultant. The gates perform good
only in "full supply" condition. When water from Kedungombo reservoir decreases, the gates
perform unsatisfactory. The operation of the telemetry system was delayed due to complexity
of the tendering process; tenderers were less than required so the tender had to be repeated. The
system was not functioning until now because:
a)   the Panel Control Board at Sidorejo, Sedadi and Dumpil weirs were not yet
available;
b)   the gate position indicators in Sedadi weir were damaged and need to be repaired;
c)   the potentiometer in Dumpil weir should be produced; and
d)    system components were stolen twice: i) main component in repeater station was
stolen in January 1994 but has been found back and reinstalled; and ii) five
computers and one transceiver were stolen.  Procurement of the missing
equipment will be funded under JIWMP loan and will be reinstalled after the
material arrives.
2.6   Para 5.5. The remaining 732 families are not willing to move from greenbelt (November
1994), because:
a)    210 families refused to accept payment;
b)    108 families accepted payment; and
c)    414 families have no right to get payment due to changing the family status.
30I always encouraged the people to move to the resettler area nearby the transmigration
area.
3.    Bank's Performance
During implementation of the project, the Bank always created a good atmosphere and
respected the counterparts (Borrower) willingness to face all problems by optimistic negotiation
and good understanding.
4.    Lessons Learned
The most important lesson from the implementation of the project is that land acquisition
and resettlement arrangements are the most critical point. Subsequently GOI should set up well



13
trained committees among related agencies and satisfactory resettlement programs and funds.
5.    Relationship between Borrower and the Bank
As mentioned in point 3, the relationship between the Bank and GOI was good without
any serious problem encountered; for co-financiers as well.



14
PART mII: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title                        Purpose                   Year of          Status
Approval
Projects which have Funded Irrigation Works in the Project Area
Irrigation I Project"         Repair of the Sedadi irrigation       1969        Completed 1976
(Cr. 127-IND)                 system.
Irrigation Projects VII and IX  Development of the tertiary system    1976 and 1977  Completed
(Ln. 1268-IND and             in the upper and lower Sedadi                      1983 and 1984
Ln. 1435-IND)                 system. Feasibility study and
design of Kedung Ombo Dam and
related irrigation development.
Master Plan for Jratunseluna
Basin.
Irrigation Project XIV        Improvement of flood protection       1980        Completed 1987
(Ln. 1811 -IND)               and drainage works in lower
Serang and Juana valleys.
Projects Financing Non-Irrigation Works in the Project Area
Second National Agricultural    Improve agricultural extension      1980        Completed 1987
Extension Project (Cr.996-IND)  including the project area.
Seeds H Project (Ln.2066-IND)  Improve seed supply.                 1981        Completed 1989
Upland Agriculture and        Carry out soil conservation works     1984
Conservation Programme        including in Kedung Ombo Dam
(Ln.2474-IND)                 catchment area.
Projects Aimed at inproving Irrigation O&M and Strengthening Institutions
Irrigation Projects XV and XVI  Strengthen planning, programming    1980 and 1982   Completed 1987
(Cr.995-IND and Ln.2118-      and budgeting capacity, and                          and 1988
IND)                          management information systems.
Irrigation Project XVII Project   Improve organization and training  1982 and 1986   Completed 1989
and Central and West Java     of the provincial irrigation                         and 1993
Irrigation Development Project   services, and develop and
(Loans 2119-IND and 2649-     demonstrate new techniques.
IND)
2. Project Timetable
Item                              Date Planned          Date Revised           Actual Date
Identification/Preparation"                                                 January 25, 1983a
Appraisal Mission                                                            May 3-28, 1984



15
Item                                Date Planned            Date Revised             Actual Date
Loan Negotiations                                                                  April 4-11, 1985
Board Approval                                                                      May 16, 1985
Loan Signature                                                                      June 18, 1985
Loan Effectiveness                September 16, 1985                             November 18, 19853'
Loan Closing                      December 31, 1991       December 31, 1992      December 31, 1993
" Feasibility studies and designs for the project were carried out under Irrigation Project VII (Ln. 1268-IND)
by PROSIDA (the special project agency responsible for most Bank projects) assisted by consultants (Snowy
Mountains Engineering Corporation). The first studies for development of the areas were started in 1971.
2 Date of Project Brief.
3' Conditions of loan effectiveness were (i) award of construction contract, (ii) award of consultancy
contracts. There were some delays in signing the consultancy contract with Snowy Mountains Engineering
Corporation.
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
SAR                Actual            Actual as % of
Estimated
Bank FLscal Year         Semester        ..........         Milli.. on  . .........        %
1986                         1                   3.0                 0.00                   0
11 6.0                                  4.74                  79
1987                         1                  14.0                 6.87                  49
11                 24.0                11.95                  50
1988                         1                  39.0                19.50                  50
11                 58.0                36.81                  63
1989                         I                  78.0                54.91                  70
11                 99.0                83.33                  84
1990                         1                  118.0               96.61                  82
II                 137.0              108.41                  79
1991                         I                  151.0              120.77                  80
11                156.0                137.14                 88
1992                         I                                     139.28                  89
II                                    148.23                  95
1993                         1                                     150.04                  96
11                                     151.42                 97
1994                         1                                      154.22                 99
II                                     154.58                 99



16
4. Project hnplementation
SAR Estimate  Actual or PCR   Actual as %
Estimate       of SAR
Main Dan and Appurtenant Structures
Main Embankment (max. height 61 m, crest             1 no.          1 no.           100
length 1,600 m)
Service Spillway (crest length 40 m)                 1 no.          1 no.          100
Emergency Spillway (crest length 250 m)              1 no.          1 no.          100
Diversion Tunnel (diameter 4 m, length 325 m)        1 no.          I no.           100
Intake and Pressure Conduit (diameter 3.8 m,         I no.          I no.           100
length 270 m)
Power Development
Power House and Turbine (28.5 MVA)                   I no.          1 no.           100
Micro-hydro Power Plants                             3 no.          2 no.           67
Power Lines (150 kV)                                30 kms         30 kms           100
Power Lines (20 kV)                                 30 kms         30 kms           100
Irrigation Development"
New SysteMS 21
Main Structers
Sidorejo Weir (height 7 m, width 80 m)             I no.          1 no.           100
Klambu Barmge (max. height 19 m, width 100 m)      1 no.          1 no.           100
Canals
Mains                                            51.8 kms       64.2 kms          124
Secondary                                        227.6 khs       213 kms           94
Tertiary                                        1,506.0 kms       n.a.3'          n.a.
Drains
Main                                              7.1 kma        7.0 kms           99
Secondary                                        129.0 kms      235.3 kms         182
Main System Structures
Tumouts                                           116 no.        284 no.          245
Water Control                                     311 no.        348 no.          112
Other                                            1,930 no.       544 no.           28
Roads
Service                                           121 kms       40.5 kms           33
Inspection                                        153 kms       168.9 kms         110
Inproved Systems
Main Systen Strucres
Turnouts                                          166 no.       587 no.'         354
Water Control                                     28 no.         98 no.          350
Other                                            1,472 no.      1,042 no.         71
Canals
Main                                             88.3 kms       103.6 kms         117
Secondary                                        179.2 kims     148.4 kims         83
Tertiary                                        1,470.0 kIma      n.a.y           O.



17
SAR Estimate Actual or PCR Actual as %
Estimate        of SAR
Drains
Secondary                                         230.5 kms       35.7 kms           15
Major Structures
Sedadi weir (rehab. & raising crest by 0.5m)         1 no.          1 no.           100
Flooding Warning and Water Monitoring System
Main Control Centre Building                       1,000 m2       1,600 m2          165
Telemetered Rainfall and Water Level Station        100 no.        121 no.          121
Equipment                                            I set          I set           I set
Training
Dam Safety and Construction Methods
Trainers                                           15 months     10.5 months         70
Trainees                                            21 no.          78 no.          371
Overseas Fellowship                                 15 no.          16 no.          107
Water Management
Trainers                                               -          5 months
Water Quality Monitoring
Trainers                                          24 months       24 months         100
Overseas Training                                 3 no. for 6    6 no. for 3        100
months         months
Consultants                                                                            100
Foreign                                            532 months      652 months         123
Local                                              1,309 months   1,217 months        93
" For scheme-wise details see Annex 1, Table 1.
2t Sidorejo and Klambu Kanan.
;' Data on length of tertiaries is not available. See Annex 1, Table 2.
4' Sedadi and Klambu Kiri.
5' Includes some improvements to existing structures.



5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs"'
.............. .Appraisal Estimates .............                               Actual .
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
Civil Works                      ...... Rp billion        .    .     US$ milion      ...   Rp billion           ...   USS milion .
Dam and Appurtenances             14.6      27.8     40.4    13.3       25.3     38.6    39.67    46.18     85.85     24.72     28.33    53.05
PowerStations&Transmission         3.1      14.2     17.3      2.8      12.9     15.7     1.36     36.30    37.66     0.71      19.11    19.82
Irrigation
Sidorejo                         7.7      5.3      13.0      7.0      4.8      11.8    33.15      1.72    34.87     18.50     0.98     19.48
Sedadi                           3.3      2.2       5.5      3.1      2.0      5.1    19.70       -       19.70     11.53      -       11.53
Klambu Kiri                     15.4      9.0      24.4    14.0       8.2      22.2    60.96      -       60.96     33.36      -       33.36
Klambu Kanan                    24.7      15.0     39.7    22.5       13.5     36.0    70.75     11.50    82.25     37.58     6.40     43.98
Klambu Barrage                   6.4      7.8       14.2     5.8      7.2      13.0    31.72     8.40     40.12     16.74     5.04     21.78
Flood Forecasting Building          -        -         -       -         -        -       1.02      -        1.02     0.51       -        0.51
Resettlement Facilities
Transmigration Sites              -        -         -        -        -        -       2.78      -        2.78      1.33      -        1.33
Local Resettlement Areas          -        -         -        -        -        -       8.72      -        8.72     4.29       -        4.29        00
Sub-Total Civil Works           75.20    81.30    154.50   68.50    73.90    142.40   269.83   104.10   373.93    149.27      59.86    209.13
Equipment
Office, O&M, Hydro, Training&      1.0      4.1       5.1      0.9      3.7      4.6      1.85      -        1.85     0.98       -        0.98
Vehicles
Telemetry & Water Quality'         4.2      6.5       10.7     3.8      5.9       9.7     3.83     10.82    14.65      1.93     5.05      6.98
IPEDA                               -        -         -       -         -        -       0.18      -        0.18     0.10       -        0.10
Sub-Total Equipment            5.2      10.6      15.8     4.7       9.6      14.3     5.86    10.82    16.68      3.01      5.05      8.06
Consultants                        8.4      7.0      15.4      7.6      6.4      14.0    21.61     13.69    35.30     11.92     7.60     19.52
Training                           0.2      1.0       1.2      0.2      0.9      1.1      0.37     0.34      0.71     0.18      0.20      0.38
Administration                    14.7       -        14.7    13.4       -       13.4    7.12       -        7.12     4.16       -        4.16
Land Acquisition                  28.1       -       28.1    25.5        -       25.5    61.78      -       61.78    41.21       -       41.21
Contingencies                     44.6      35.1     79.7    40.5       31.9     72.4      -        -         -        -         -         -
Total                            176.4    135.0    309.4   160.4    122.7    283.1    366.57   128.95   495.52    209.75        72.71    282.46
u For year-wise details see Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5.
2 Includes Rp2.39 billion (US$1.11 million) of foreign currency costs to be paid in 1994/95.



19
B. Project Financing
Loan Amount       Revised       Actual         Actual as Prop.
of Planned
....       .  US$ Mion ..... ......                   %
Civil Works
Dam and Power Houses                              32.30           39.55         39.47               122
Irrigation Improvement                            82.90           81.54         81.35                98
Flood Warning and Water Monitoring Centre          0.40            0.52          0.81               202
Site Development in Bengkulu for Migrants (52)       -             1.33          1.33
Development of Resettlement Areas around Kedung      -             4.32          4.18
Ombo Dam
Sub-Total                                        115.60           127.26       127.14               110
Equipment and Materials
Dam, Power Station, Irrigation                     2.30            0.89          0.85                37
Flood Warning and Training                         9.90            7.28          6.61                67
Stremngtheningof [PEDA                             0.10            0.10          0.10                96
Sub-Total                                         12.30            8.27          756                 61
Consultants' Servke
Dam, Kedung Ombo Power Station and Irrigation      9.29           10.98         10.99               118
Micro Power Stations                               0.01             -             -
Flood Warningand Training                          1.32            1.79          1.79               135
Dcsign of latigede Irrigation System              4.90             3.03         3.03                 62
Updating of Maps and Land Holding Identification,  1.00            0.77         0.77                 77
and Improvement of Date Prssing by IPEDA
Soil and Water Conservation Study                  0.50            0.53         0.53                107
ResettlementMonitoring                             0.15            0.12         0.11                 71
Rcettlement Study                                   -             2.89         2.29
Sub-Total                                         17.17           20.10         1950                114
Training Cinc. Training for Resettlement)         0.67             0.38         0.38                56
Uallocated                                        10.26             -             -                  -
Total                                            156.00           156.00       INS48                 99



20
6. Project Results
A. Direct Results
Unit    Future Without Project        Future With Project
SAR Estimate            SAR              PCR
Cropped Areas"
Irrigated Paddy           '000 ha           35.25               118.68           120.13
Rainfed Paddy             '000 ha           32.23                 -                -
Palawija                  '000 ha           43.26                17.82           17.27
Total                                     110.74               136.50           134.40
Cropping Intensity            %                188                230              229
Yields2'
Wet Season Paddy            t/ha            3.3-4.1             4.0-4.7          4.9-5.4
Dry Season Paddy            t/ha            3.7-4.5             4.2-5.0          5.2-5.6
Maize3'                     t/ha           0.9-1.2              0.9-1.3          0.9-1.3
Production
Paddy                     000 ton           248.3               541.0            639.44'
Palawija                  000 ton            65.2                29.8             30.5
Electricity Production       Gwh                -                  74              70
Municipal and Drinking      million            -                   13.6           153.0
Water                         m3
" See Annex 2, Table 7.
2/ Yields vary between different sub-project areas. For details see Annex 2, Table 3.
3/ Intercropped with soyabean or mungbean.
;' In the without project situation paddy production is estimated at 257,900 tons.
B. Economic Analysis
Economic Rate of
Return
SAR Estimate                                                                     17%
PCR Estimate
Base case (future paddy price Rp3O6/kg)                                         12%
High future rice price (future paddy price Rp469/kg)"                           19%
Low future rice price (future paddy price of Rpl79/kg)"                          7%
Only agricultural and power benefits                                            9%
Using SAR assumptions for paddy price (Rp453/kg in 1993 prices) and for
conversion factors (0.5 for labour and 0.8-0.9 for construction works). Only
agricultural and power benefits.                                                 17%
Upper and lower bounds of projected future prices. See Annex 2, Table 2 (b).



21
C. Financial Impact
............ SAR                                  . MR ...........
Fann      Without         With    Increase      Without         With  Increase
Size       Project      Project                 Project       Project
(ha)   . Rp 000 (1993 prices) .       (%) . . Rp 000 (1993 prices) . .     (%)
Sidorejo
Small     0.2          88.4         155.4         76         88.7        132.6        49
Medium    0.4         170.3         303.8         78        164.3        251.3        53
Large     0.6         252.1         459.8         82        238.4        376.2        58
Sedadi
Medium    0.4         189.1         302.0         60        146.4        244.6        67
Large     0.6         284.8         449.4         58        188.0        361.3        92
1Uambu Kiri
Medium    0.4         120.7         289.1        140        106.0        246.7       133
Large     0.6         176.4         431.4        145        149.4        364.3       144
Klambu Kanan
Small     0.2          74.3         133.9         80         80.3        122.3        52
Medium    0.4         131.7         258.3         96        127.0        225.4        77
Large     0.6         196.2         385.3         96        180.4        332.5        84
D. Studies
Study Title                           Purpose                 Status       Inpact of Study
Feasibility Study of Micro  Ascertain viability of micro hydro  Completed   Micro-hydro plants
Hydro Plants               plants at Sidorejo and Sedadi Weirs           built.
and Klambu Barrage
Design of Jatigede Irrigation    Prepare a study on adjustments  Completed    }
Systems                    needed in irrigation works                    }
downstream of Jatigede Dam (West              }
Java)                                         }



22
Study Title                              Purpose                  Status       Impact of Study
} Jatigede
Upland Soil and Water        Identify critical soil erosion areas  Completed    } Project under
Conservation in Jatigede Dam   in Jatigede Dam catchment area                 } Preparation
Catchment                    and propose remedial measures.                   }
}
Final Report on Environmental  Assess enviromental problems and  Completed    Helped identify
Management Plan              recommend solution in Kedung                     critical
Ombo area.                                      environmental
problems
Final Report of Water Quality   Monitor water quality           Completed    Found water quality
to be acceptable
Socio-Economic Monitoring    Monitor socio-economic status of   Completed    Helped making
and Resettlement Studies     people moved to resettlement areas               policy for
around Kedung Ombo and people                   resettlement
living in the Greenbelt area.
7. Status of Major Covenants
Loan                 Description of Covenant          Compliance              Remarks
Agreenent
Section
LA 3.01(b)   Carry out implementation in accordance       OK
with Schedule 5.
L-A 3.03(a)    Maintain a panel of dam experts.           OK
LA 3.03(b)   Submit a copy of dam panel reports.          OK
LA 3.04      Furnish to the bank by 12/31/88 a plan of   Not complied  Superseded by agreements
action for allocation of a portion of IPEDA           under ISSP-II.
collected in irrigation areas to O&M of
irrigation works and thereafter implement
this plan.
LA 4.01(a)   Maintain adequate records and accounts.      OK
LA 4.01(b)   Have the accounts audited and furnish to     OK
the Bank a certified copy of audit report
within 9 months of the end of fiscal year.
LA 4.01(c)   Maintain appropriate records for Statements  OK
of Expenditure.
LA 5.01      Propose to the Bank by 04/01/88              OK
appropriate arrangements for monitoring
and periodically inspecting the dam.
LA 5.02      Ensure appropriate measures for soil and     OK
water conservation in project area under
LU. 2474-IND.
LA 5.03(a)    Ensure efficient use of water made         Partly    Improved water management
available by irrigation systems constructed  complied    practices have been delayed due
under project.                                       to slow implementation of the
telemetry component.



23
Loan                  Description of Covenant          Compliance              Remarks
Agreement
Section
LA 5.03(b)    Ensure adequate staff employed and funds    Partly     See para Part 1, para 7.1.
allocated for proper O&M of project        complied
facilities.
LA 5.03(c)   Inform the Bank by May 1 of each year,    Not yet due  First due date May 1, 1994.
approved cost per ha and number of staff
for O&M for each of the irrigation systems
in the project area.
LA 5.04       Cause access roads to be constructed in the  OK
project area in accordance with a timetable.
LA 5.05       Cause PLN to finance the cost of O&M of   Not complied  The issue is under discussion
power house and 50% of the O&M cost of                 (see Part I, para 7.1).
dam intake and irrigation and power tunnel.
LA 6.01       As condition of loan effectiveness (1) sign  OK
contract for construction of dam and power
house; (2) sign contract for construction
supervision.
SCH 5,        Submit to the Bank, results of surveys of    OK
para I        resettlement activities commencing by
December 31, 1985.
SCH 5,        Assign and maintain qualified staff in       OK
para 2        Project Offices.
SCH 5,        Cause provincial irrigation service to       OK
para 3        reorganize its irrigation offices and their
operations by 04/01/89.
SCH 5,        Cause PLN to acquire and install power       OK
para 4        generation and associated equipment and
transmission lines to Kedung Ombo,
Sidorejo and Klambu by 07/01/89.
SCH 5,       Cause Central Java Provincial Government      OK
para 5        and PLN to enter into an agreement by
07/31/89 setting forth rules and criteria for
the use of reservoir water.
SCH 5,       Take appropriate measures to control the      OK
para 6        spread of malaria.
SCH 5,       Furnish to Bank by 12/31/88 a plan for        OK       Separate unit under the project
pam 7         continuously monitoring canal water                    office has been established.
quality.
SCH 5,       Furnish to Bank by 12/31/89 a plan of      No longer   Unit has been established by
para 8       action for establishing a dam inspection unit   relevant    DGWRD.
in IHE, Bandung.
SCH 5,       Update IPEDA maps and reclassify and          OK
para 9        reassess lands in accordance with schedule
acceptable to Bank
SCH 5,       Acquire a number of vehicles and motor        OK
para 10      cycles for the dam and irrigation works.



24
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Bank Fiscal Year       Id/Prep           Appraisal         Negotiations       Supervision
....................... Staff Weeks .
1982               16.2
1983               31.3
1984               25.2              23.5
1985                                 52.5                3.1                2.0
1986                                                                        9.0
1987                                                                        11.4
1988                                                                       21.1
1989                                                                       32.9
1990                                                                        17.9
1991                                                                       35.1
1992                                                                       21.7
1993                                                                        14.1
1994                                                                        4.0
Total              72.7               86.0               3.1               169.2



B. Missions
Stage of   Month/ No. of SW in  Speecalizatlon .Perfornance Rating .Co-ents
Projed Cycle  Year        Persona  the Field
Availble Funds        Project Mangement            Dev. Impact       Overall Status
Appraial       May 1984  4          14       MIIE, IE, A,
E
Supervision I   May 1986  1         1        IE                         2                        2                        1                  1       Lack of counterpart fund.; delays in procurement.
Supervi.ion2   Feb 1987   1        2         IE                         1                        2                        1                  1       Delays in procurementof telemetering equipment.
Supervision3   Jum 1987   1         1        IE                         1                        2                        1                  1
Supervision4   Oct 1987   1         1        IE                         1                        2                        1                  1
Supervision5   Aug 1988  1          1        IE                         1                        2                        1                  1
Suprision 6   Mar 1989  3          5         MEIE, RE, A                                                                                             Resettlament problem.
Overall  Dev. Objecdive legal    Management   Avail of Procurement   Training T.A Studies Environme Financial Comments
Status                  Covenant                 Funds                                          nt
Supervision7   Aug 1989  1          1        IE              2        1              1         2               1        1              1        1   1        2           1         Reacttlement
problems; some
delays in
irrigation works.
Supervision 8t  May 1990  1        1         IE              I        I              1         2               1        1              1        1   1        2           1         Resettlement
problems;
delays in Flood
Foreating and
Water Mgmt.
Centres
Supervision9   May 1991  1          1        IE              I        I              1         2               1        1               1       1   1        2           1         Resettlement
problems;                 tn
delays in Flood
Forewting and
Water Mgmt.
Centre
Supervision 10' Jun 1991   2       4         E, RE                                                                                                                                 Resetlement
problems
Supervision 11' Dec 1991  2        2         ARE
Supervisionl2  Aug 1992  5          12       21E, 2RE, A    2         1              1         2               2        2              2        1   1        2           2         Reaettlement
problems;
delays in Flood
Forecasting snd
Water Mgmt.
Centres
Superviuion 13  Apr 1993  4        6         21E, A, RE      2        1              1         2              2         2              2        1   1        2          2          Resettlement
problems;
damage and
delays caused
by flood in Jan.
Supervision 14  Dec 1993  4        2         21E, A, RE      2        1              1         1               1        1              1        1   1        2          2          Income
geneating for
settled people &
Govt funds for
completion of
unfinished
work.
Note: A - Agronomid; E = Economist; IE = Irrqiation Engineer; ML   Minion Leader RE = Re ctlementfNGO Expert.
u Special mission to look at the restlment isue, no Form 590 was prepared.
v Two reslemnt experts visited the project in Februaty and April 1990.
9 No Form 590 prepared.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multi Purpose Dam and Irrigation Project
SCHEMATIC MAP OF PROJECT AREA
Java Sea
J         a   Se   / 
SAM
s15, 200 lha X|/   /
X  o         ;1g/ /       S       \ ~~KLA\MBU l;ANAN'l
'\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I-  8 //11 i a \       _               Pum    St-'Hon
\                                          Nol 10 S I .-
. 1K5A4ci0    h                                                                    ary
SIIAIJl ~  ~     ei                           Mair, irrgaio c,, '
.ii~~~~~~~~~~~~S-ailr i,iaio ii
JJj                   ____ _ ~~~~~~~~Dra inagi, canal
'  yS                           ~~~~~~~~~---------  Water supply C31lJ
//     / Kllr)UNC o&%0O l!am n
/  /    <  |1 Catlimonnt afea t,,4 k.1Q) 
, ,/ __   k 0 }                          STIfit~501MATIK I)RAWIN(;                                                                 >
,--<   't.J !                                 ~~~~~~~~~~NOI 10s SCAII



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Project Comp(etion Report
Figure  1.  Water Requirements and Releases in  the Kedung Ombo System
Kedtd..  Ombo Dar n0so                                                                                                  Sedadi Weir
40
ozN" r 1FW. w y  b h O- -                              ,0                                                          T  ,  T )
30
Ou. N..)  D-.   7-    N)   M.   AP,   M"y   )-    J~.   A-4   8q                                                     0                              -F 
Apr.  Mey  Jul.   At   Aug.  Sep.  OcL  Nov.  Dec,  Jan.  Feb.  Mew.
_  R q~~~~~~~~~~~~ Dry Var (l9S9/I0)
-.....          - Wa Yatu9WY3)                                                                                             ----- Requm (19)
20 _________   Sidorejo Weir                                                                                      tO_                        Klambn Barrage                   __
\ t'-                 '.  L  E                                             w          f  T'T    \,  ':\_                                       .'sI
10                                          n-   g                                        r   0  r-- I- r - - - ~r  r - -  r   -
-- - -  I                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   
Apr.  MIy   Jull.  JJu.  Ag   Sept.  00o   NOv.  D;.  Jar.  Feb.  MM.                                                  Apr.  M-ay  Jur.  JuL   Abg.  Se    Od-  Now   re-  Jm   Feb.  Mar
_ e-  "-t         -----  Reiee (1993,4)                                                                               RequIwrwft               R _eie (1 0/4A



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Project Implementation
Table 1. Irrigation Works: Target and Actual Achievement
| Sidorejo .... .                   Klambu Kanan .......... . Sedadi ... .                         Klambu Kiri .
Unit           SAR            PCR            SAR           PCR             SAR            PCR              SAR       |    PCR
Canals
Main                          Km             13.7           13.5           38.1          50.7            41.2            46.6            47.1           57.0         n
Secondary                     Km             73.6           37.0          154.0          111.7           10.0            8.7            169.2           139.7
Drains                                                                                                                                                                P 
Primary                       Km             7.1            7.0           88.0           61.5             -               -               -               -
Secondary                     Km             18.0           28.0          111.0          207.3            -               -             164.5           35.7         __
Structures (Main System)
Turnouts                      no.             64             67             52            217             20              73             145             514
Water Control                 no.            126            190            185             35              9              27              19              71
Other                         no.            145            200           1,785           344            257             143             957             899



29
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Irrigation and Dam Project
Annex 1: Project Implementation
Table 2. Target and Actual Benefitting Areas
....................... Actual ...............
SAR                   PCR               Area for which Tertiary
System is Complete
........................ ha .....................ha                     .
New Irrigation Areas
Sidorejo                      6,100                  6,120                      6,120
Klambu Kanan                 19,000                  17,288                     17,2881l
Sub-Total                   25,100                 23,408                     23,408
Existing System
Sedadi                       13,910                  15,200                     15,2002/
Klambu Kiri                  20,3303'               21,457                      10,5004'
Sub-Total                   34,240                 36,657                     25,700
Total                          59,340                 60,065                    49,108
" Improvements on 633 ha to be completed in 1994/95.
v Existing system not improved under the project.
3' Tertiaries were to be constructed for 9,800 ha and improved on 10,500 ha.
4' Tertiaries were constructed on 10,500 ha but need to be improved on 9,957 ha.



IE)CNESIA:  Kedung ISo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Aimex 1: Project Impte.entation
Table 3. Comparative Statement Showing Benefits of Different Options (and Status of Families Not Relocated)
Transmigration           Self-Resettlement        Govt. Resettlement          Not Relocated                Total
Option-1                 Option-2                  Option-3
Year of Shifting                           1985-91                   1985-89                   1989-90
Location                             Sumatra, Kalimantan,      20 villages adjacent to    0.1 to 9.0 km from      Still residing in greenbelt
Irian Jaya                reservoir                reservoir
No. of Resettled Families                   1,161                     3,131                     669"                      307"                    5,268
Percentage of Total Families                25%                       56%                       13%                        6%                      100%
Shifting Assistance Provided                 Yes                       No                      Limited                Will get limited
Constructed House Provided                   Yes                       No              Limited (312 houses in K.           No
Mulyo constructed)
Area of Houseplot Provided                 0.25 ha                     nil                     0.10 ha                   0.10 ha
(self-purchased)       (0.05 ha for landless)    (0.05 ha for landless)
Area of Replacement Farmland        0.75 ha + 1.00 ha (free)           nil             Dry upland of safne area       As per Option-3
(self-purchased)      as land acquired (Rp160
or Rp200/m2)
Land Title Provided                          Yes                      No"                       Yes                        n.a.
Standard of Infrastructure                   Fair                  Not Provided                 Good
Project Expenditure/Family              Rp9. 10 million           Rp4.00 million           Rp 14.12 million
Extension Service Provided                   Yes                     Limited                    Yes
No. of Draw-down Cultivators                                          2,360                     475
No. of Greenbelt Cultivators                                          2,505                      462



31
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigabton Project
Annex 1: Project implementation
Table 4: Yearwise Project Costs in Current Rupiahs
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89   1989/90    1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94        Total
...........     ....................... .................. .  ,   ,   . ,  (US  M illion)
LOCAL CURRENCY COSTS
Civil Works
DamandAppurtenances                      3.73      4.89      6.84     8.97        8.78     3.68      2.16      0.82                   39.87
Power Stations and Transmission                                                   0.25     0.97      0.14                              1.30
Imrgation
Sidorejo                                                    8.29     8.05        4.28     6.55      1.67      2.92      1.41         33.15
Sedadi                                                      3.73    13.12        1.38      1.49                                      10.70
Klambu Kirl                                                 5.12    13.91       24.99     5.14      8.04      2.24      3.52         80W8
Kiambu Kanan                                                3.64     8.11       19.74     11.25     11.7    14.87       3.44         70.75
KJambu Barrage                                              2.07     1.22        5.95     6.73       9.3      6.45                   31.72
Flood Forecastng Building                                                                  0.11      0.91                              1.02
Resettlement Facilities
Transmigration Sites                                                                                2.78                              2.78
Local Resetjement Areas                                                                   0.87      4.71               3.14           8.72
Sub-Total Civil Works                     3.73      4.89    29.49     51.38      85.33     36.79     39.41    27.30     11.51         289.83
Equipment
Otfic-,O &M,Hydro,Training &Vehiclee               0.01      0.18     0.05        0.68     084       0.11                              1.85
Telemetry and Water Quality                                  0.78                                              0.21      2.84          3.83
IPEDA                                                                                      0.18                                        0.18
Sub-Total Equipment                                 0.01     0.98      0.06       0.88      1.02      0.11     0.21      2.84           5.88
Consutamnts                                         0.53      7.09      1.38       1.08     2.15      5.41      1.00      3.01         21.81
Training                                                                                                        0.37                    0.37
Administration                            0.35      0.34      0.50      1.41       1.05     0.96      1.04      0.97      0.50          7.12
Land Acquisition                         14.17      4.28     14.00     9.23        1.61     5.30      3.09      4.38     5.72          81.78
TOTAL                                     18.25     10.05    52.04     63.43      69.71     46.22     49.06     34.23    23.58         366.57
FOREIGN CURRENCY COSTS
Civil Works
Dam and Appurtenances                    3.29      5.74      927     17.03        9.40     1.45                                       48.18
Power Stations and Transmission                                                   7.28    25.39      3.63                             38.30
Irrigation
S9dorejo                                                    0.83     0.63        0.26                                                 1.72
Sedad
Klambu Kirt
Klambu Kanan                                                                     6.78     4.72                                       11,50
Klambu Barrage                                              1.38     0.58        1.96     3.98      0.52                              8.40
Flood Forecasting Building
Resettlment Fecilities
Tnansmigration Sites
Local Resettlement Areas
Sub-Total Civil Works                     3.29      5.74    11.48     18.22      25.68    35.54      4.15      0.00      0.00         104.10
Equipment
Office, O&M, Hydro, Training & Vehicles
Telemetry and Water Quality 1/                                                                                 0.78     10.04         10,82
IPEDA
Sub-Total Equipment                                 0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.78     10.04          10.82
Consultants                                         1.80      2.32     2.69        2.92     2.06      1.04      0.25     0.81          13.69
Training                                                                                                        0.34                    0.34
Administraiton
Land Acquisiton
TOTAL                                      3.29      7.54    13.80     20.91      28.80     37.80      5.19      1.37    10.85         128.95
1/ Includes Rp2.39 billion to be paid in 1994/95.



32
INDONESLIA Kedung Ombo Multpurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Prolect Implementatlon
Table 5. searwise Prolect Coat. In Current US Dollars
1985188  198r/87  1987188  198I8/e   i9a9/GO    1980/91   1991/92  1992/93  1903/94        Total
(US   Million) .. ... .... .--
LOCAL CURRENCY COSTS
CMI Works
3.40     3.67     4.03      5.83       4.31      1.97     1.12      0.39                   24.72
Power Strtons and TransmIssion                                                  0.14      0.50     0.07                              0.71
Irrigation
Sidorelo                                                  5.00      4.75       2.32      3.49     0.87      1.41     0.68          18.50
Sedadl                                                    2.25      7.71       o.T7      0.80                                      11.53
K0ambu Kri                                                3.09      8.13      13.70      2.87     3.04      1.08      1.85         33.38
l0ambu Kanan                                              2.19      3.57      10.93      8.03     6.08      7.18      1.82         37.58
Klambu Barrage                                            1.25      0.72       3.32      3.47     4.86      3.12                   18.74
FRood Forecasting BuildIng                                                                0.05     0.46                              0.51
Resettlement Facilities
Tranemigration Sites                                                                               1.33                             1.33
Local ReseWttement Areas                                                                 0.45     2.34                1.50          4.29
Sub-Total Civil Works                    3.40      3.87    17.81    30.71       35.49    19.43    20.17      13.18     5.43         148.27
Equipment
Offlce, O&M, Hydro, Training & Vehicles           0.01     0.10      0.03       0.38      0.42     0.08                              0.98
Telemetry and Water Quality                                0.48                                              0.10      1.35          1.93
IPEDA                                                                                     0.10                                       0.10
Sub-Total Equipment                                0.01     0.58     0.03        0.38     0.52      0.06     0.10      1.35          3.01
Coneulentb                                         0.41     428       0.85       0.75      1.00     2.71      0.49      1.45         11.92
TraIning                                                                                                      0.18                    0.18
AdmInlstration                            0.32     0.30     0.30      0.85       0.81      0.54     0.54      0.47     0.23           4.18
Land AcquIsiton                         13.07      3.78     8.54      5.56       0.93     2.94      1.82     2.11      2.68          4121
TOTAL                                    18.79      8.17    31.49    38.00       38.14    24.43    25.10      18.51    11.12        209.75
FOFREIGN CURFRENCY COSTS
CMi Works
Dam and Appurtenances                   3.02      3.59     5.82      9.93       5.38      0.79                                      28.33
Pover Stadons end TrnamIssion                                                   3.82     13.38     1.91                             19.11
Irrigaion
Sldorelo                                                  0.40      0.35       0.14                                                 0.96
Sedad
K0ambu lKr
lKambu Kan                                                                     3.80      2.80                                       6.40
lCambu Barage                                             0.83      0.34       1.17      2.38     0.32                              5.04
Flood Forecasting Bulling
Resettlement FacilItes
Transmigation Sites
Local Resettlement Areas
Sub-Total CMI Works                      3.02     3.59      6.94    10.82       14.31    19.15      2.23     0.00      0.00         59.86
Equipment
Office, 061M, Hydro, Training & Vehicles
Telemetry and Water Quality 1/                                                                               0.38     4.87           5.05
IPEDA
Sub-Total Equipment                               0.00      0.00     0.00        0.00     0.00      0.00     0.38      4.87          5.05
Consultants                                        1.18     1.35      1.57       1.50      1.04     0.50      0.11     029            7.80
Training                                                                                                      020                     020
Adminitration
Land Acquisdtion
TOTAL                                     3.02      4.75     8.29    12.19       15.89    20.19      2.73     0.69      4.96         72.71
1/ Includes US$11.11 million to be paid In 1904i95.



33
Annex 2
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 1. Financial and Economic Prices (1993) 11
Item                     Financial Economic
Prices   Prices
Rp/kg
OUTPUT
Paddy                                300      306
Maize                                250      177
Soyabean                             900      550
Mungbean                           1,200     1,200
Sorghum                              280      260
INPUT
Seed
Paddy                                550      459
Maize                                650      266
Soyabean                           1,200      825
Mungbean                           1,500     1,800
Sorghum                             400       390
Fertilizer
Urea                                260       338
TSP                                  340      435
KCI                                  340      395
Agro-Chemicals
Pestcides  (Rp/lt)                16,000    16,000
Rodenticide                       16,000    16,000
Machinery
Sprayer   (Rp/day)                   500      500
Tractor    (Rp/day)                5,000     5,000
Labour 2/
Male     (Rp/day)                  2,250     2,025
Female   (Rp/day)                  1,700     1,530
1/ Major assumptons are based on SAR for the Groundwater Development Project
(Report No. 11424-IND, dated 02/26/1993) using updated prices where appropriate.
2/ Conversion factor of 0.9.



34
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 2(a). Import and Parity Prices for Non-Paddy Crops
Maize                           Soybean             Sorghum
Import Parity           Export Parity       Import Parity       Import Parity
------             _ - -- ---    - ----- ----------- US$/MT---------
Projected Price 1/                          99.7                     99.7               234.7                97.5
Quality Adjustment                           0.0                    -15.0               -11.7
Freight and Insurance                       25.0                    -10.0                30.0                25.0
CIF or FOB Price                           124.7                    74.7               253.0               122.5
-------------------------- - ------------------------------------- Rp/Kg---------------------------------------
CIF or FOB Price                             262                     157                 531                 257
Port Handling & Storage Losses (5%)           13                       -8                 27                   13
Transport: Port/Wholesaler                    10                      -10                  12                  10
Wholesaler's Margin                           15                      -15                 30                   15
Transport: Mill/Wholesaler                   -10                      -10                 -10                 -10
Traders' Margin                              -15                      -15                 -30                 -15
Transport: Farm/Mill                         -10                      -10                 -10                 -10
Economic Farm-gate Price                    265                       89                 550                 260
Urea                    TSP                 KCL
Export Parity          Import Parity        Import Parity
- -           -    ----- ----US$IMT-   -   ---        -------------
Projected Price 1/                         154.3                   134.0                114.7
Freight and Insurance                      -10.0                    40.0                40.0
CIF or FOB Price                           144.3                   174.0               154.7
-----------------------------------------Rp/Kg--------------- -----------------------------------
CIF or FOB Price                             303                     365                 325
Port Charging including Bagging              -10                      25                  25
Ex-Factory or Warehouse Price               293                      390                 350
Transport to Wholesaler                       15                      15                  15
Storage & Wholesaler Margin                   15                      15                  15
Transport to Farm                             15                      15                  15
Economic Farm-gate Price                    338                      435                 395
1 Projected price for 2000 (base case) expressed in terms of 1993 constant prices.
'Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries', The World Bank, Washington D.C., March 1994.



35
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 2(b). Economic Price for Paddy 1/
Unit     Base Cas(       High 2/     Low 2/
Projected World Price for Rice      US$/t         273.3       409.4       167.2
Import Parity Price for Paddy       Rp/kg          373         548         236
Export Parity Price for Paddy       Rp/kg          239         389         122
Economic Price for Paddy            Rp/kg          306         469         179
1/ Prices for 2000 expressed in 1993 prices.
2/ Top and bottom of range within which rice prices are likely to stay at 70% probability level.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 3. Crop Yields
Sidorejo                      Sedadi                         Klambu Kiri           Klambu Kanan
SAR           PCR             SAR            PCR             SAR            PCR             SAR           PCR
- _ - ---    - -   _ ------------------------------------------------------------Vha-------------------------
Wet Season Paddy
Without Project (% Irrigated)      3.3 (0)        3.6             4.1 (90)      4.1              3.5 (60)      3.7             3.4 (13)       3.6
With Project                       4.7            5.4             4.7           5.3             4.6            5.3             4.0            4.9
Dry Season Paddy
Without Project                       -             -             4.5            4.5            4.0            4.0             3.7            3.7
With Project                       5.0            5.6             5.0            5.5             4.8           5.6             4.2            5.2
Palawija (Maize/Soyabean)
Without Project                 1.2V0.6        1.2/0.5         1.0/0.5        1.0/0.5         0.9/0.5 1/    0.9/0.5         0.9/0.5        0.9/0.5
With Project                    1.3/0.6        1.3/0.6         1.3/0.5        1.3/0.5         0.9/0.5 1/    0.9/0.5         1.3/0.5 1/     1.3/0.5
1/ Malze/Mungbean.



INDONESIA: Kedunrg Orrbo Muhpurpose Dam and Irfigation Project
Anrx  2: Fhnarcil and EconomIc Analysis
Table 41.). C.p Budget
Skkw4o Iffiati Asea
Wet Season Paddy                            Dry Season Paddy                                Plawija (Maize/Soyabean) 1/
Wou          t Project    WIh Prowt         Vhout Project         Whh Project               Without Project       wmth Proct
liem              Urit  OCmnty   Vakes   Cmmnty   Vakle               Ormnity   Vakse         nuI      Vahue          Otanlt    Vakle        Omntly   Value
(am HP)           C0Fp)                     COrORP)                (NO Rp)                  fo0 Rp)                COOORp)
REVENLUES
MainProduct                Kg        3,600     1,080    5,400    1,620                                   5,600    1,680           1.2/0.5    750        1.3/0.6     865
By-Products 2/              Kg                    54                3t                                               84                       36                     43
Sub-Totsl                                        1.134              1                                               .764                       788                    908
COSTS
Seed                       Kg           25        14       25       14                                     25        14              10        9            15       14
Fertilizer
Urea                      Kg          150       39       250       e5                                    250       65              70        18          100        26
TSP                       Kg           75       26       150       51                                    150       51               40       14           75        26
KCI                       Kg                             100       34                                    100       34
Agro-Chwnlcale
Ineectcid.                 L          3.0       48       3.0       48                                     3.0      48              1.5       24           2.0       32
Rodenticide               Kg          1.5       24       1.5       24                                     1.5      24              0.5        8           1.0       16
Machinery
Sprayer                   Day          12        6         8        4                                      8        4                4        2             5        3
Tractor"                  Day          15       75        13       65                                     13       65                4       20            4        20
Hired Labour 31
Male                        D        24.0       54      25.0       56                                    25.0      56             17.0       38          18.0       41
Ferule                    WD          19.0      32      20.0       34                                    20.0       34            19.0       32          20.0       34
Sub-Totl                                          318                395                                              395                      166                    210
GrJam MrgIn                                        816              1,306                                           1.369                      622                    698
Family Labour
Maie                                 96.0              100.0                                            100.0                     68.0                   72.0
Ferrule                              76.0               80.0                                             80.0                     76.0                   80.0
Redan per Day to Family Labow 41                   4.7                7.3                                             7.6                       4.3                    4.6
NotEconorReluxriper F  51                        521.               967.0                                          1051.0                     94.0                  108.0
1/ In the without project situation rairze and soyabean are grown as supwate crops during th first dry season (Feb-Jun). In the with project situation. raize and soy"bean are grown
as mbxed crops during the second dry seasn (June-Sept).
2V 5% oftewvlue ofte maincrop.
3/ Assumed, in Ine with to SAR, ak 20% of all babour required.
4/ Including both mnne and female lbour.
5/ All inputs valued at economic pric  and including economic islue of family labour.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Mutipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Anex 2: FInncii and Economic Anais
Table 4(b). Crop Budgets
Sodadi Irnigation Area
Wet Seamon Paddy                         Dry Season Paddy                         Palawiia (Maize/Soyabean)
Without Project   With Project           Withot Project   With Project            Withoud Project   With Project
Item         Unit   Quantity  Value Quantity Value            Quantity   Vaue Quantity Value           Quantity   Value Quantity Value
coCo Rp)       (ooo Rp)                  (000 Rp)        0ooo Rp)                 0ooo Rp)        0OOO Rp
REVENUES
Main Product        Kg        4,100   1,230   5,300   1,590             4.500   1,350   5,500   1,650           1.0/0.5    700  1.3/0.5    775
By-Product2 V       Kg                   62              sO                       68              83                       35              39
Sub-Total                               1.292           1 670                    1 418           1 733                      735             814
COSTS
Seed                Kg           25      14      25      14               25      14      25      14               10       9      12      11
Fertilizer
Urea               Kg          200      52    250       65              200      52    250       65               70      18      90      23
TSP                Kg          100      34    1S0       51              100      34    150       51               40      14      70      24
KCI                Kg           50             100      34               50      17    100       34
Agro-Chemicab 
Insecticide         L          3.0      48     3.5      56               3.0     48      3.0     48               1.5     24      1.5     24
Rodenticlde        Kg           1.5     24      1.5     24               1.0     16      1.5     24               0.5      8      1.0     16
Machinery
Sprayer            Day           6       3       a       4                6       3       a       4                4       2       5       3
Tractors           Day          10      50      12      60               10      50      13      65                4      20       4      20
Hired Labour 3/
Male               MD         24.0      54    25.0      56              24.0     54    25.0      56              17.0     38    18.0      41
Female             WD          19.0     32    20.0      34              19.0     32    20.0      34              19.0     32    20.0      34
Sub-Total                                 311            398                       320             395                      166             195
Gross Margins                             980           1.272                    1 097           1 338                      569             618
Family Labour
Male                          96.0           100.0                      96.0           100.0                     68.0            72.0
Female                         76.0           80.0                      76.0            80.0                     76.0            80.0
Returns per Day to Family Labour 4/       57              7.1                      64              7.4                      4.0             4.1
Net Economic Returns per Ha             681.0           952.0                    818.0          1019.0                     57.0            65.0
1 In the without project situation maize and soyabean are grown as separate crops during the first dry season (Feb-June). In the with project situation,
maize and soyabean are grown as mixed crops during the second dry season (June-Sept).
2/ 5% of the value of the main crop.
3/ Assumed, In line with the SAR, at 20% of all labour required.
4/ Including both male and female labour.
5/ All inputs valued at economic prices and including economic value of family labour.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 4(c). Crop Budget;
Kkmbu Kiri Irrigation Area
Wet Season Paddy                             Dry Season Paddy                             Palawija (Maize/Soyabean) 1/
Without Pro,ect       With Project           Without Project       With Project              Without Project    With Project
Item         Unit Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value            Quantity   Valu    Quantity   Value          Quantity   Value   Quantity   Value
(000 Rp)           ('000 Rp)               (C000 Rp)            0ooo Rp)                (C000 Rp)            ('000 Rp)
REVENUES
Main Product         Kg       3,700     1,110     5,300     1,590          4,000     1,200     5,600     1,680          0.9/0.5     675    1.2/0.5      750
By-Products 21       Kg                   56                  80                        60                  84                       34                  38
Sub-Tobtl                                1.166                1.670                    1.260               1,764                      709                 788
COSTS
Seed                 Kg         25        14        25         14             25        14        25        14             10         9        12        11
Fertilizer
Urea                Kg        200        52       250        65             200        52       250        65             70        18        90        23
TSP                 Kg         100       34       150        51             100        34       150        51             40        14        70        24
KCI                 Kg         50                 100        34              50        17       100        34
Agro-Chemicals
Insecticide          L         3.0       48        3.5       56             3.0        48       3.0        48             1.5       24        1.5       24
Rodenticide         Kg         1.0       16        1.5       24             1.0        16       1.5        24            0.5         8        1.0       16
Machinery
Sprayer             Day         6         3         a         4               6         3         8         4              4         2         5         3
Tractors            Day        10        50         12       60              10        50        13        65              4        20         4        20
Hired Labour 3/
Male                MD        24.0       54       25.0       56            24.0        54      25.0        56            17.0       38       18.0       41
Female              WD        19.0       32       20.0       34            19.0        32      20.0        34            19.0       32      20.0        34
Sub-Total                                  303                 398                       320                395                       166                 195
Groass Margins                             86                 1.272                      940               1,369                      543                 592
Family Labour
Male                          96.0               100.0                     96.0               100.0                      68.0                72.0
Female                        76.0                80.0                     76.0                80.0                      76.0               80.0
Redumrs per Day to Famil Labour 4/          5.0                 7.1                      5.5                 7.6                      3.8                 3.9
Not Economic Returns per Ha               553.0               952.0                    657.0              1051.0                     38.0                47.0
11 In the without project situation maize and soyabean are grown as seperate crops during the first dry season (Feb-June). In the with project situation. maize and soyabean are grown
as mixed crops during the second dry season (June-Sept).
2/ 5% of the value of the main crop.
3/ Assumed, in line with the SAR, at 20% of all labour required.
4/ Including both male and tamale labour.
5/ All inputs valued at economic prices and including economic value of family labour.



INDONESIA: Kadung Onbo Mulipurpose Dam and Irrigaion Project
Arnex 2: Finanhil and Eoonomic Araysis
Tase 4(d). Crop bidget
Manl  mmn Inualon Area
Wet Season Paddy                              Dry Season Paddy                               Palawija (Maize/Soyabean) 1/
wtA Project  ~       uW  Poje                  N6u Project        WIM Projec                What Proect         Wi Projec
linit       R 4Qumnt  Valu      QmuIty   Va.              Qsmnflt    Value   Quanhty   Value            Quanity   Value   Qutnty    Value
COS4)               COOD l>)                  co0  BP)            (000 BP)                   (0W0 lp)            ('OO lP)
FEVIUES
Main Product            Kg         3,600     1,080     4,900     1,470            3,700     1,110     5,200     1,560          0.9/0.5      675    1.3/0.5      775
By-Products2/           Kg                      54                  74                        56                  78                         34                  39
aubToi                                         1.134               t544                       1.166              1.63                        709                  814
CODSS
Seed                    Kg            25        14        25        14              25         14       25        14               10         9        12        11
Feazer
Ursa                   Kg           200        52       250        65             200        52       250        65               70        18        90        23
TSP                    Kg           100        34'      150        51              100        34      150        51               40        14        70        24
Ka                     Kg            50                 100       34               50        17       100        34
Agro4fhenlcals
hkaclde                L            3.0        48       3.5        56              3.0       48        3.0       48              1.5        24       1.5        24
Rodentddd              KU           1.0        16       1.5        24              1.0       16        1.5       24              0.5         a       1.0        16
M&d*Y
Speyer                Day             6         3         8         4               6         3         8         4                4         2         5         3
TraCtDorS              Day           10        50        12        60               10        50        13       65                4        20         4        20
Hired Labour 3/
mae                    MD          24.0        54      25.0        56             24.0        54      25.0       56             17.0        38      18.0        41
Female                 WD          19.0        32      20.0        34             19.0       32       20.0       34             19.0        32      20.0        34
Suib-Tol                                         303                 396                       320                 395                        166                 195
Gromaa                                           ml                1 146                       845                1.243                       543                6G1
Famly Labour
Male                               96.0               100.0                       96.0               100.0                      68.0                72.0
Fehmae                             76.0                60.0                       76.0                80.0                      76.0                80.0
.6m p- rD   y to Fan*y Labaw 4/                                      _4                        4.9                69                         3tl                 4.1
Net EcmaOU  R.mma per Ha 5/                    tiZtO                                          561.0              9210                        30                  6&O
1/ hI #- witA proed dason make wn saYWmn are ganwi as sePerate crops durkng te irst dry seon (Feb-Jui). h in wiYh proec  l1a0n. make an soyabean are growi
as mb"d crops during Om secornd dry seaon (Junaeq.
2/ 5%ofhievae of Ve d ninai cop.
3/ Asuomed, in Wm with 11e SAP, at 20% doa hbour r.qirad.
4/ hikkicg both mdle and fmnale bbour.
5/ A hIpuh vlued at economic rics nnd indutnq e   h rrvIe v heamiv bbonr



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irigaion Project
Annex 2: Financial and Eoonomic Analysis
Table 5k). Farm Budgeb
Sldorqo Irdsiion Au_
Smal Farn. 02 Ha)                                 Medum Farn. (0.4 Ha)                              Large Farmn (0.6 Ha)
WthoiA Prject            With Proec               Wlihout Project          YMh Project              Wthout Project           Vwith Projc
Gros   Fanily            Gros  Family             Gros  FeaFly             Gross  Faenly            Gros  FaFtly              Gross Faimly
Ara  Income Labour       Area  Inco  Labour       Area  Income Labour      Area  Income Labour      Area  Income Labour       Area  Income Labour
ql)  C000 Rp (Days)      tim)  (000 Fp (Days)     ti)  (C000 Pl (Days)     fa)  (o000 lp (Days)     ti)  (C000 lp (Days)      i)  (W000 lp (Days)
CROPS
Paddy WM Season)        0.17  138.80  29.24      0.20  261.20  36.00      0.34  277.59   58.46      0.40  522.40  72.00      0.51  416.39  87.72      0.60  783.60  108.00
Paddy (Dry Son)                                  0.20 273.80  36.00                                 0.40 547.60  72.00                                0.60  821.40  108.00
MakoeSo"beans           0.37  230.10   53.28      0.06  41.87   9.12       0.72  447.77  103.68     0.12  83.75   18.24      1.08  671.65  155.52     0.18  125.62  27.36
Sub-ToI                 0.54 36A.90  82.52       0.46 576.87  81.12       1.06 725.36 162.16        0.92 1153.75 16224       1.59 1086.04 243.24      1.38 1730.62 243.36
RetzrlmpmEDy *om Fafnwng        4.47                     7.11                      4.47                     7.11                     4.47                     7.11
OUthwr      F hc.mEpendtures-
Ol-Farm Incorne
Male                           27.00     12             27.00     12             27.00     12             15.75      7              13.50     6              22.50     10
Femab                          17.00    10              17.00    10              13.60      8              8.50      5             10.20      6              10.20     6
Paymen for Water
IPEDA 1/                        5.00                     5.00                    10.00                    10.00                     15.00                    15.00
WaterCorbbutions 2V             0.00                     6.00                     0.00                    12.00                      0.00                    18.00
Sub-Tab                        39.00                     33.00                    30.60                     2.25                     6.70                     -0.30
Tobl Fs,t Ino                 407.90                    609.67                   75:i96                  1156.00                  1096.74                   1730.32
hmsmnPerCaptt 3V               86.67                    132-50                   164.34                   251.30                   236.42                   376.16
1/ FIp25,0D0 per ha.
2/ 50kg of paddy per ha of imgated paddy grown. Paid to WtJAs tor madierance of the trtiary system.
3Y Averge farmily size 4.6 people.



INDONESIA: Kadung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Finarcial and Economic Analysis
Table 5(b). Fann Budgets
Sedadi Irrigation Area
Modium Forms (0.4 Ha)                                              Large Farms (0.6 Ha)
Without Projoct                     With Project                      Without Project                    With Project
Gross    Family                  Gross    Family                    Gross    Famliy                   Gross    Family
Area     Income   Labour          Area   Income    Labour            Area   Income    Labour            Area   Income    Labour
(Ha)   (COO Rp)  (Oays)           (Ha)   (000 Hp)  (Days)            (Ha)   (000 Rp)  (Days)            (Ha)   (OoO Rp)  (Days)
CROPS
Paddy (Wet Season)                 0.39    382.38    67.08           0.40    508.60      72.00          0.55    539.25     94.60          0.60    762.90    108.00
Paddy (Dry Season)                 0.18    197.54    30.96           0.40    535.00      72.00          0.05     54.87      8.60          0.60    802.50    108.00
Maize/Soyabeans                    0.13      74.02    18.72          0.12     74.21      18.24          0.47    267.62     67.68          0.18    111.32      27.36
Sub-Total                           0.70    653.94   116.76           0.92   1117.81    162.24          1.07    861.74    170.88           1.38   1676.72    243.36
Returns per Day from  Farming                 5.60                              6.89                               5.04                              6.89
Other Income/Expenditures
Off-Farm Income
Male                                         15.75       7                    15.75         7                    11.25         5                    11.25        5
Female                                       13.60       8                    13.60         8                     6.80         4                     6.80         4
Payments for Water
IPEDA 1/                                     10.00                             10.00                             15.00                              15.00
Water Contributions 2/                        0.00                             12.00                              0.00                              18.00
Sub-Total                                    19.35                              7.35                               3.05                             -14.95
Total Family Income                         673.29                           1125.16                            864.79                            1661.77
Income Per Caput 3/                         146.37                            244.60                             188.00                            361.25
1/ Rp25,000 per ha.
2/ 50kg of paddy per ha of irigated paddy grown. Paid to WUA for maintenance of the tertiary system.
3/ Average family size 4.6 people.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 5(c). Farm Budgets
Klambu Kiri Irrigation Area
Medium Farms (0.4 Ha)                                         Large Farms (0.6 Ha)
Without Project                With Project                   Without Project                With Project
Gross   Family                 Gross   Family                 Gross   Family                 Gross   Family
Area   Income   Labour         Area   Income   Labour         Area   Income   Labour         Area   Income   Labour
(Ha)   ()000 Rp)  (Days)       (Ha)   (000 Fp)  (Days)       (Ha)  (000 Rp)  (Days)         (Ha)   (000 Rp)  (Days)
CROPS
Paddy (Wet Season)          0.40    344.98    68.80        0.40    508.60    72.00        0.60    517.47    103.20       0.60    762.90    108.00
Paddy (Dry Season)                   0.00      0.00        0.40    547.60    72.00                  0.00     0.00        0.60    821.40    108.00
Maize/Soyabeans             0.20    108.63    28.80        0.12    71.06    18.24         0.30    162.95    43.20        0.18    106.60    27.36
Sub-Total                   0.60   453.61    97.60          0.92  1127.26   162.24         0.90   680.42   146.40         1.38  1690.90   243.36
Retums per Day from Farming           4.65                           6.95                           4.65                           6.95
Other Income/Expenditures
Off-Farm Income
Male                                27.00       12                  15.75       7                  13.50       6                  11.25       5
Female                              17.00       10                  13.60       8                  8.50        5                   6.80       4
Payments for Water
IPEDA 1/                            10.00                           10.00                          15.00                          15.00
Water Contributions 2V               0.00                           12.00                           0.00                          18.00
Sub-Total                            34.00                           7.35                           7.00                          -14.95
Total Family Income                 487.61                        1134.61                         687.42                        1675.95
Income Per Caput 3/                 106.00                         246.66                         149.44                         364.34
I/ Rp25,000perha.
2/ 50kg of paddy per ha of irrigated paddy grown. Paid to WUAs for maintenance of the tertiary system.
3/ Average fwmily size 4.6 people.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Tabla 5(d). Farm Budgeb
Kkrrbu Karln Irrgation Am_
SluN Farms (0.2 I-b)                               Medium Forma (0.4 H-)                               Large Famrre (0.6 HI)
Witho  Pra.ct               With Project             Wthout Project            With Prject               Wifthout Prqea           With Project
Grm    Family            Grom   Famiy              Grom   Family             Grow   Family             Groa    Family           Grao    Family
Amu    ncmexm  Labour    Aim   Income Labour    Arm   Inrme Labour    Arm   Income  Labour    Arm   Income  Labour    Arm   Inoome  Labour
(I-k)  C000 Rp) Paya)    (I-hI  (000 Ap) Pays)    CIk   000 Rp) Pays)    CI           W 00 Rp) Pays)    (H-)  (000 Rp) Pays)            CO O000 Rp) Pays)
CROPS
Paddy (IWet Season)          0.21   174.50   3612      0.20   229.10   36.00     0.40   332.38   68.80    0.40   458.20   72.00     0.60   498.57  103.20     0.60   687.30  108.00
Paddy PIry Season)           0.01    8.45    1.72      0.20   248.60   36.00     0.02    16.91    3.44    0.40   497.20   72.00     0.03    25.36    5.16     0.60   745.80  108.00
0aiz2e/Soabeans              0.19   103.20   27.36     0.06    37.11    9.12     0.37   200.97   53.28    0.12    74.21   18.24     0.55   298.73   79.20     0.18   111.32   27.36
Stb-Trin                      0.41   2686.15  65.20     0.46   514.81  81.12     0.79  550.25  125.52      0.92  1029.61  162.24     t.18   822.67  187.56     1.38  1544.42 243.36
Run per Day trom Farming              4.39                      6.35                      4.38                      6.35                      4.39                     6.35
Oiher IncomerExpenditurm
Off-Farm Income
Male                                 54.00     24              31.50     14             27.00      12             15.75      7              13.50      6              11.25      5
Fmale                                34.00     20              27.20     16             17.00      10             13.60      8               8.50      5               6.80      4
Paymnwt for Water
IPEDA 1/                              5.00                      5.00                    10.00                     10.00                     15.00                     15.00
Water Contributio 21                  0.00                      6.00                     0.00                     12.00                      0.00                     18.00
Sub-TakI                             03.00                     47.70                     34.00                      7.35                      7.00                    -14.95
ToAi Family Income                  369.15                    562.51                    584.25                   1036.96                    829.67                  1529.47
Irmcm  Per Caput 3/                  *0.25                    122.28                    127.01                    225.43                    160.36                   332.49
1/ Rp25,000 per ha.
21 50kg of paddy per ha of irrigated paddy grown. Paid to WUAs for maintenance ol the tertiary system.
3/ Averege bmily size 4.6 people.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 6. Per Caput Farm Incomes
--------------------- SAR ---        --------------            -       --------    PCR
Fanm Size       1983 Prices                   1993 Prices       Increase                1993 Prices       Increase
(ha)    Without        With           Without       With                        Without       With
Project     Project          Project     Project                       Project     Project
----------------------'000  Rp--                             (%)       ----------- '000 Rp-------      (%)
Sidorejo
Small                     0.2        45.1        79.3              88.4       155.4         76               88.7       132.6         49
Medium                    0.4        86.9       155.0             170.3      303.8          78              164.3       251.3         53
Large                     0.6       128.6       234.6            252.1       459.8          82              238.4       376.2        58
Sedadi
Medium                    0.4        96.5       154.1             189.1      302.0          60              146.4       244.6         67
Large                     0.6       145.3       229.3            284.8       449.4          58              188.0       361.3        92
Klambu Kid
Medium                    0.4        61.6        147.5            120.7      289.1         140              106.0       246.7        133
Large                     0.6        90.0       220.1             176.4      431.4         145              149.4       364.3       144
lambu Kanan
Small                      0.2       37.9         68.3             74.3       133.9         80               80.3       122.3         52
Medium                    0.4        67.2        131.8            131.7      258.3          96              127.0       225.4         77
Large                     0.6       100.1        196.6            196.2      385.3          96              180.4       332.5         84



46
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 7. Cropping Patterns
Without         With Project
Project      SAR        PCR
..............................   (ha)  
Sidorejo
Total Physical Area                         6,100       6,120
Wet Season Paddy
Rainfed                        5,200           -
Irrigated                           -     6,100      6,120
Dry Season Paddy                      -     6,100      6,120
Palawija                         11,020      1,830      1,000
Total Cropped Area             16,220    14,030      13.240
Sedadi
Total Physical Area                         13,910     15,200
Wet Season Paddy
Rainfed                        1,200           -
Irrigated                     12,700     13,910     15.200
Dry Season Paddy                 6,300     13,910     15,200
Palawija                         4,700      4,170      4,650
Total Cropped Area            24,900     31,990     35.050
Klambu Kiri
Total Physical Area                        20,330     21,457
Wet Season Paddy
Rainted                        8,230           -
Irrigated                      12,100    20,330     21,457
Dry Season Paddy                   500     20,330     21,457
Palawija                        10,200      6,120      6,437
Total Cropped Area            31,030     46,780     49,351
Klambu Kanan
Total Physical Area                        19,000     17,288
Wet Season Paddy
Rainfed                       17,600
Irrigated                      2,550     19,000     17,288
Dry Season Paddy                  1,100    19,000     17,288
Palawija                        17,830      5,700      5,186
Total Cropped Area            39,080     43,700     39,762
Total
Project Area                               59,340     60.065
Wet Season Paddy
Rainfed                       32,230
Irrigated                     27,350     59,340     60.065
Dry Season Paddy                 7,900     59,340     60,065
Palawija                        43,750     17,820     17,273
Total Cropped Area          111,230   136.500   137,403



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and EconomIc Analysis
Table S. Exchenge Rates and Inflation Rates
1985/86  1986/87  1987188  1988/89    1989/90   1990/91   1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
EXCHANGE RATE (Rp/US$)
GOOlAccountingRatel/                      1,085     1,135     1,640     1,659      1,789     1,872     1,921     2,075     2,150
RadeonlBRDDisbursements 2/                1,098     1,564     1,665     1,689      1,831     1,897     1,998     2,058     2,118
DOMESTIC INFLATORS
Wholesale Price Indices 3/                 104.25    116.65    131.25    142.35     151.30    160.30    172.80    186.15    191.70 4/
(1985=100)
Inflation Rats (%)                          11.89     12.52      8.46      6.29       5.95      7.80      7.73      2.98
Inflatorm                                    1.84      1.64      1.46      1.35       1.27      1.20      1.11      1.03      1.00
(I convert current to mid-1993 prices)
INTERNATIONAL INFLATORS                     1965      1986      1987      1966       1969      1990      1991      1992      1993           1994
MUV Index (1990=100)5/                      68.60     80.89     88.84     95.31      94.65    100.00    102.23    106.64    107.17         110.85
InlafionR  (%)                              17.92      9.83      7.28     -0.69       5.65      2.23      4.31      0.50      3.43        -100.00
Inflators 6/                                 1.43      1.26      1.16      1.13       1.10      1.06      1.03      1.00      1.00           1.93
(to convert current to mid-1 993 prices)
1/ Rate fixed every yoar for converting budgetary allocations into US$ equIvalents for accountng purposes.
2/ Average exchange rats on IBRD debursements made in the year.
3/ Source: Intemnaional Financil Statistics, Yearbook 1993 (VoI.XLVI) and May 1994(Vol. XLVII, No.5).
4/ Wholesale prIce Index d the end of the second quater of 1993.
5/ G-5MUV Index. Source: World Bank, Intmrational Economics Department, March 1994.
6/ Correction fator. lo convert split year costs (e.g. 1985/86) to mid 1993 values.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multpurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 9. Economic Project Costs in Constant 1993 Prices
1985/86  1986187  1987/88  1988/89    1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94              Total
LOCALCURRENCYCOSTS 1/                ..... . .. ..... ...(Rp. Billion) .......                 ......
Civil Works 2/                            6.86     8.04     43.07     69.19      82.77     43.86    42.71     28.11    11.51        336.13
Equipment 2/                                       0.02      0.26      0.07       0.84      1.00     0.12                             2.31
Consultants                                         0.87     10.36     1.83       1.34      2.57     6.00      1.03     3.01          27.01
Training                                                                                                       0.38                    0.38
Administration                            0.64      0.56     0.73      1.90       1.33      1.15      1.15     1.00      0.50          8.96
Land Acquisition                         26.06      7.03    20.45     12.43       2.04      6.34     3.43      4.51      5.72        88.00
Sub-Total                               33.56     16.52    74.87    85.42       88.32    54.93    53.42    35.03    20.74           462.81
FOREIGN CURRENCY COSTS 3/
Civil Works 2/                            9.09      9.52    16.96     25.16      33.09     42.62     4.81      0.00     0.00        141.26
Equipment 2/
Consultants                               0.00      3.08      3.30     3.72       3.65      2.31      1.08     0.23      0.61         17.98
Traning                                                                                                        0.42                    0.42
AdminIstration
Land Acquistion
Sub-Total                                 9.09    12.60     20.26    28.88       36.74    44.94      5.88      0.65     0.61         159.66
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                      42.65    29.11     95.13   114.30      125.07    99.86    59.30    35.89    21.35           622.47
1/ Current values have been converted to constant 1993 values using the local currency inflatorm (dertved from Annex 1, Table 4 and Annex 2, Table 8).
2V Excludes cost of construction of flood forecasting building and equipment for telemetry and IPEDA as these have not yet resulted in quantifiable benefits.
3/ Constant 1993 Rupiah values have been derived by converting USS values to mid-i 993 values, using the foreign exchange Inflator, and converting these to
Rupiah equivalent using the mid 1993 exchange rate (USS1 =Rp2,100) (derived from Annex 1, Table 5 and Annex 2, Table 8).



49
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 10. Actual and Projected Power Generation
92/93      93/94       94/95      Post 94/95
*     Mwh-----------------------------------
Kedung Ombo Power House                   40,330      74,627     70,000          70,000
Sidorejo Power House 1/                    2,523           -      2,500           2,500
Klambu Power Plant                         1,872      2,104       2,100           2,100
Total                                 44,725      76,731     74,600          74,600
Rp billion-----
Economic Value 2/                          10.73       18.42      17.90           17.90
Operational & Maintenance Costs 3/          0.69       0.87        0.87            0.87
1/ Damaged in January 1993 and expected to be recommissioned
in 1994/95.
2/ Valued at Rp240 (11.4 US cents) per Kwh. This economic value is based
on existing tariffs for industrial and residential use, along with an estimate of
consumer surplus. Source: SAR for Indonesia: Cirata Hydroelectic Phase II
Project, Report No. 1 1544-IND, dated April 14,1993.
3/ Includes only O&M of power plants.



50
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 11. Benefits from Fishing
Unit   Quantity          Unit Cost         Value
Rp        000 Rp
AQUACULTURE (Floating Cages) 2/
Output (per 4 month cycle)                           kg       1,500              1,800          2,700
Inputs (per 4 month cycle)
Fry                                               no.       6,000                20            120
Feed                                               kg       2,250               680           1,530
Other Expenses                                                                                 200
Gross Income                                                                                     850
Amortised Cost of Cages 2/                                                                       250
Net Income                                                                                      600
Family Labour                                    days          30
Returns/Day of Family Labour                                                                     20
Total Economic Benefits                         tons         960 3/         360,000 4/    345,600
CAPTURE 5/
Output (annual catch)                                kg       1,200               400            480
Inputs
Nets (600m x 3m)                                   no.          2                 30            60
Boat                                               no.          1                100           100
Other Expenses                                                                                  50
Net Income                                                                                       270
Family Labour                                     days          50
Returns/Day of Family Labour                                                                     5.4
Total Economic Benefits                         tons         600 6/         140,000 4/     84,000
1J Model based on a cage 6mx6mx3m over a four months production cycle.
2/ Investment costs are around Rp1.5 million and cages need to be replaced every
two years (six production cycles).
3/ There are about 800 cages in the reservoir, producing on average about 400 kgs
of fish each cycle. Total annual production Is thus about 960 tons.
4/ Net Income less cost of family labour (valued at economic prices).
5/ Model based on a single boat enterprise.
6/ About 500 fishermen.



51
[NDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Mullipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financialand Economic Analysis
Table 12. Benefits from Municipal Water Supply                  (page 1)
Willingness to Pay
Current Tariffs in Semarang
Consumer Type                              0-15 m3       16-20 m3 |    21-50 m3       > 50 m3
................. .RpIm.................
Social Service                                 170            170            170           170
Special Social Service                         170            325           400           450
Household I                                    175            350           450           900
Household II                                   320            500           600          1,250
Household III                                  450            620           865          1,470
Government Offices                             320            500           600          1,250
Small Trading Company (Commercial)               0            735          1,715         1,960
Big Trading Company (Commercial)                 0            990          2,205         1,450
Small Industry                                   0            860          1,960         2,205
Big Industry                                     0          1,225          2,450         2,695
Harbour                                      3,000          3,000          3,000         3,000
Average ann    ousehold consumption (5 people x 40 It/day):                73 m
Cost for Household Type I:                                                 Rp38,500 per annum
Average Cost/m3:                                                           Rp530
Marginal Cost/m3:                                                          Rp900
Capital Cost
T he canals to transport water to Semaang, along with treatment and distribution systems, would cost about US$64
million. Amortising this over 5 years and assuming annual supply of 153 million m3 (see below), the capital cost
per m3 is about Rp200.
O&M Cost
For Central Java, sustainable O&M costs for rual water supply schemes are estimated at about Rpl80/m3. (Source:
SAR for Indonesia: Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project, Report No. 11777-INS,
dated May 26, 1993). For urban supply schemes the O&M costs may be 2-3 times that of a rural scheme.
Economic Benefits
The willingness to pay, at the margin, less investment and O&M cost should give a lower bound approximation of
the social benefit of increasing water supply.
Rp/mi3
Marginal Willingness to Pay          900
less:
O&M Costs                    360
Capital Cost                 200
Economic Benefit                     340



52
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Lrrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 12. Benefits from Municipal Water Supply                  (pge 2)
Quantities Supplied
SAR Assumptions
0.009 It/sec/ha for Sidorejo and Klambu Kanan (25,100 ha)
0.006 It/sec/ha for Sedadi and Klambu Kiri (34,240 ha)
Annual Supply: 13.6 million m3
Water would be drawn by directly from the canals
Actual
Urban Water Supply to:
Quantity Required               Source
(it/sec)
Semarang                2,500           Klambu Barrage
Demak                   1,500            Klambu Barrage
Purwodadi                 150           Sidorejo Main Canal
Rembang                  700            Klambu Kanan Main Canal
Total                 4,850
Annual Supply: 153.0 million m3
Economic Value: Rp52.02 billion



53
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economnic Analysis
Table 13. Flood Control Benefits
Flood Prone Area:                                  30,000 ha in Lower Serang Basin
Economic Productivity of Flood Prone Area:         Rp824,000 ha"
Flood Likelihood:
Without Project:                          1: 20 years
With Project:                              1: 100 years
Likely Losses":
Without Project:                          Rp618 million
With Project:                             Rp214 million
lnemental Benefits:                       Rp494 million
1' Based on rice production in the Klambu Kanan area.
v   Assumes 509% of net benefits (equivalent to 27% of output) is lost in the years in which a major flood occurs.



INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multpurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 14: EcDnomic Coats and Benefite
1985/3  198 6/37 1987/13 1988/39 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93 1993/94  1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/204 2000/1  2001/2 2002/3 2003/4
2007/8
-     __ .   -   -.--    _   _  _    _ ......(Rp  billion)
ECONOMIC COSTS
Investment Costs 1/                  42.65   29.11   95.13  114.30  125.07   99.86   59.30   35.69   21.35                                                                62.25
Replacement Costs 2/
Operational and Maintenance Costs
Dam and Appurtenances                                                       0.40    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81
Irrigation Works 3/                                                         0.63    1.26    1.89    2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10    2.10
Power Stations                                                                             0.69    0.87     0.87    0.87    0.87    0.87    0.87    0.87    0 87    0.87    0.87    0.87
Sub-Total                             42.65  29.11   95.13  114.30  125.07  100.89   61.37   39.08   25.13    3.78    3.78    3.78    3.78    3.76    3.78    3.75    3.78   66.02    3.78
ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Incremental Crop Production 4/                                       7.42   22.26   37.10   44.51   59.35    66.77   74.19   74.19   74.19   74.19   66.77   66.77   66.77   66.77   66.77
Power Generation 5/                                                                        10.73   18.42    17.90   17.90   17.90   17.90   17.90   17.90   17.90   17.90   17.90   17.90
Fishing 6/                                                                          0.09    0.43    0.43     0.43    0.43    0.43    0.43    0.43    0.43    0.43    0.43    0.43    0.43
Tounsm  7/                                                                                 0.08   0.08      0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08
Municipal and Drlnking Water Supply 8/                                               5.20    5.20   10.40    10.40   15.61   26.01   31.21   41.62   52.02   52.02   52.02   52.02   52.02
Flood Control 9/                                                             0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49    0.49
Sub-Total                              0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.42   22.75   42.87   61.45   39.13    96.08 106.70 119.10  124.30  134.71  137.69  137.69  137.69  137.69  137.69
NETECONOMIC BENEFITS                 (42.65) (29.11) (95.13) (114.30)(117.65) (78.15) (18.49)  22.37   64.05    92.30  104.92  115.32  120.52  130.93  133.91  133.91  133.91   71.67  133.91
Economic Rate of Return   12.4 S
1/ See Annex 2, Table 9.
2/ 10% of all project funded works are assumed to be mechanical or electrical equipment which would need to be replaced after 10 years.
3/ Rp35,000 per ha.
4/ See Annex 2, Tables 4 and 7. Crop production is expected to fall by about 10% after year 2000 when urban water supply reaches its peak.
5/ See Annex 2, Table 10.
6/ See Annex 2, Table 11.
7/ About 300,000 tourists visited the reservoir in 1993/94 and paid an entrance fee of Rp25O each.
8/ See Annex 2, Table 12.
9/ See Annex 2, Table 13.



55
INDONESIA: Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 15. Sensitivity Analysis
............ Projected Price ...........
SAR             High              Base              Low
........... ......... 1993 Rp .....|
Impact of Paddy Price on ERR (PCR Assumptions)
Economic Price for Paddy           453              469               306               179
ERR %                              17.9             18.5              12.4              6.5
Inpact on ERR of Change in Assumptions                                                  (%)
Only Agricultural and Power Benefits (SAR Assumptionsy'                                17.4
Only Agricultural & Power Benefits (PCR Assumptions)                                    8.5
Excluding Drinking Water Benefits                                                       8.7
" Conversion Factors of 0.8-0.9 for construction and 0.5 for labour; paddy price of Rp453fkg.



56
Ressettlement                          Annex 3
Background
1.    The Kedung Ombo reservoir, covering about 6,500 ha, was expected to displace 5,390
families (23,380 people). Like the surrounding area, the majority of these people were
agricultural. Population densities in the project area were among the highest in Java, ranging
from 860 to 1,060 people/sq. km, and sample surveys showed that 55% of the people who
would be affected had incomes below the poverty line.
2.    Because of the area's socio-political history as well as the scarcity of farmland, it was
known from the outset that resettlement would be difficult. The project's environmental impact
assessment concluded that "resettlement of displaced people should be considered the most
important impact of this project." Project preparation was extensive, involving international
consultants, well-respected Irdonesian universities, and several government survey and
implementation teams. A resettlement plan was approved by the Bank at project appraisal.
Preference surveys carried out by the Institute of Ecology, Padjadjaran University, and reviewed
by the Satya Wacana Christian University stated that 75-80% of the population wanted to join
the transmigration program. During preparation, village representatives visited the proposed
sites in Irian Jaya and Bengkulu, and 300 families apparently had already transmigrated before
the project was approved by the Bank. Project planners assumed that most of the remainder
would change their minds as their neighbors joined the transmigration program; the final
resettlement plan called for 90% of the affected area residents transmigrating elsewhere. Only
10% of the population was expected to remain in the project area. A Kabupaten Coordinating
Development Committee would help this group enter vocational training programs to prepare
them for alternative employment, work on the project, or help place them in local government
projects.
3.    Compensation for all of the affected people amounted to Rp 25.9 billion (approximately
US$25 million), or about $1000/person1. Since transmigration costs were well-known and
based on per-family site development costs, the project provided a cash payment to the
Transmigration Ministry. Land acquisition costs were included in the project's cost tables. It
should be noted, however, that the transmigration program was open to all Indonesians, and in
that sense did not constitute a "special" resettlement activity. No funds were allocated for local
resettlement other than $150,000 for monitoring and $400,000 for upland agricultural planning.
Implementation
4.    Problems with the resettlement program began almost immediately, although it was
several years before they were brought to the attention of the Bank. The assumption that the
majority of the resettlers wished to join transmigration proved to be unfounded. In fact, several
families that initially joined the transmigration returned, claiming that rough conditions and
inadequate site preparation made farming impossible in the new sites. In the end, about 20%
'This figure includes compensation for public infrastructure such as roads.



57
of the families transmigrated, although follow-up studies demonstrated that families who did join
were the only group that has restored and improved its income. The local programs to absorb
the displaced families did not materialize, aggravating the situation still further. Although there
was one attempt to establish a small village to absorb at least some of the people affected by the
project, poor soil quality made it economically non-viable and few of the resettlers accepted this
option.
5.    Compensation was paid to the resettlers following government regulations, and were
adjusted annually by 10%-15%. Compensation amounts, however, were 50% or less of the
levels needed to purchase replacement lands in the area; rising land costs and delays between
property assessments and actual payment account for the discrepancy. Approximately 750
families initially refused to accept the compensation, which was deposited in escrow in a
regional court.
6.    Although the situation in the field was rapidly deteriorating, Government reports to the
Bank indicated that the plan was proceeding on course, and the majority of the people living in
the reservoir area were indeed joining the transmigration program. This turned out to be
incorrect. Ex post analysis revealed that government reporting methodologies were not keyed
to the resettlement target group: while the right number of people may have transmigrated from
the general project area, there was no way to know from transmigration reports whether they
were from the target population that would be affected by the reservoir.
7.    Concems over the resettlement activities were brought to the Bank's attention by
Indonesian NGOs as early as 1987, two years before reservoir impoundment, in a carefully
assembled chronology prepared by the Legal Aid Society (LBH) of Yogyakarta. LBH also
reported several instances of intimidation and pressure being used to convince families to accept
the compensation. No actions were taken. This failure to act marked a turning point in the
project. Receiving no response from GOI or the Bank, which had been provided with copies
of the LBH report, NGOs began an international campaign to draw attention to the deteriorating
resettlement situation in Kedung Ombo.
8.    Although semi-annual monitoring was to have begun in 1985, there was a two-year delay
in the recruitment of an independent monitoring team. Government's reluctance to provide the
monitors with permits to visit the field site delayed monitoring still further, and it was not until
April, 1988, that the Bank received the consultant's first report. This indicated that 37% of the
total land-owning families had refused to accept compensation, and more than half of the total
population was still in the reservoir area despite the rapidly approaching date for closing the
reservoir gates to begin inundation. When the monitoring team confirmed NGO reports ol
mounting conflicts in the area and government plans to evict the remaining population, a social
anthropologist was sent from Bank headquarters to Indonesia in mid 1989 to review the project
and discuss remedial actions with the Government.
9.    Assisted by the Bank, the Government prepared a corrective action program. The focus
of the corrective action program was on the families remaining in the reservoir area. No special



58
provisions were made for the majority of farmers who had accepted compensation and resettled
themselves locally. The main elements of the corrective action program consisted of: a)
continued promotion of transmigration, with increased support for transmigrants; b) development
of reservoir fisheries, social forestry, and greenbelt development for communities remaining near
the reservoir area; and c) establishment of three new villages on Forest Department lands
released by the government.
10. Particular attention was paid to the new villages on government land. As might be
expected, the only lands available in this area of Central Java were those that local farmers had
difficulty to convert to farmland. Based on the advice from staff of Gajah Mada and Eleven
March Universities, considerable investments in site preparation and soil treatments were made
to improve the soils. Because project coordination had been weak throughout the early years,
DGWRD formed a resettlement unit to ensure proper implementation of the revised resettlement
plan. Independent socioeconomic monitoring was contracted from the Satya Wacana Christian
University, a prestigious and independent research institute close to the reservoir area.
Current Status
11.   At the time that water impoundment began in 1989, most of the affected land had been
acquired, but a large number of people still had not moved. Approximately 3,100 families
eventually accepted the cash compensation and moved into the neighboring communities. Six
hundred and sixty-nine families were resettled onto sites developed by the government. The
remaining 307 have remained inside the greenbelt, refusing to move until the courts decided on
their claims for better compensation.2 The Bank helped broker an agreement to allow these
families to remain in the greenbelt area until an equitable, voluntary relocation program could
be negotiated. Resettlement is, therefore, fully completed except for the 307 families living
inside the greenbelt, who will be encouraged to move on a strictly voluntary basis.
Outcomes
12.   Baseline monitoring reports in 1989 indicated an average income decline among the
affected population of 30-50%. Family incomes began to recover as the corrective action
program took effect, and as families began exploiting alternative income sources in the largei
economic environment. A comparative statement showing benefits of different resettlement
options in the corrective action program is shown in Annex 1, Table 3.
13.   Because baseline income data was not gathered, monitors used a proxy consisting of
2 In 1993, Indonesia's Supreme Court ruled in favor of 34 claimants, awarding them their fuU claim plus 500% for the
physical and psychological damages suffered. The government is appealing the case (on the grounds that the award actuaUy
exceeded the resettler's request) and a decision is expected shortly.



59
neighboring communities that were not resettled.3 On average, the approximately 1,150 families
who joined the transmigration program have achieved real incomes nearly 50% higher than the
incomes of communities from the same area but which were not displaced.
14.    The 3,131 families who accepted the compensation and moved to adjacent villages
appear to have suffered an initial average income decline of as much as 40% relative to their
neighbors. Subsequent improvements have brought them to within about 12%, where incomes
appear to have stabilized; nevertheless, a significant proportion of this group remains below the
regional poverty line.
15.   Families who moved to the government sites also suffered significant initial income
declines ranging between 40-60%, and a 1992 survey reported that their incomes were still
below the regional poverty line. Nevertheless, between 1991 and 1993, their average income
rose and the gap between them and their neighbors had declined to an average of 22%. This
trend of rising incomes can be expected to continue as their farms mature. The high incidence
of motorcycles, radios, household improvements, and other consumer goods among this group,
which matches or exceeds levels in the neighboring communities, suggests that income from
seasonal outmigration and wage labor are being under-reported. For both host and resettler
communities in the area, non-farm sources of income now account for 30%-50% of family
income and reflect the overall trend of a decreasing dependence on family farming throughout
Central Java.
16.   Economic improvement in the government settlements is likely to continue as the new
farms mature and families benefit from growing off-farm employment opportunities. Families
who have remained in the greenbelt are also doing well since they benefit from highly productive
drawdown agriculture. Reservoir fisheries are producing high incomes for participants in the
programs, but input and marketing constraints have limited the entry of new resettler families.
3   Two major sources of distortion are possible with this proxy. First, the scale of resttlemcnt was such that some
inteactions are likely, caused by rising population densities u host communities absorbed displaced families. Population densities
in the surrounding communities are nearly 25% higher than the average found throughout Central Java. Second, part of the
resAt1er farmed irrigated bottomlands that wer flooded by the reservoir, whereas host comnmunities arm likely to be on steeper,
les fertile hillsides. Thus, estimates of income decline are conservative.



60
Table 1: Economic Performance of Resettler Communities (1994)
Resettlement Group        # Families      % of            Change in
Displaced      Economic
Population     Status*
Transmigrant              1,161           22              +55
Self-settlers             3,131           59              -12
Government Land           669             13              -22
Greenbelt                 307             6               +62
Total                     5,268           100
*measured against unresenled, neighboring villages
Bank Performance
17.   Bank performance in the Kedung Ombo resettlement case was less than satisfactory
during the 1985-1989 period although it improved thereafter when the gravity of the situation
was recognized. The problems with the resettlement approach were signalled as early as 1984
by the Central Agriculture Department (AGR): lack of explicit linkages between resettlement and
transmigration, lack of budget for local resettlement programs, and the absence of institutional
capacity to manage a large, complex resettlement operation. They were discounted during
project processing and were never adequately addressed by the final resettlement program.
Particularly important is the counter-evidence to the estimate that 90% of the population would
willingly transmigrate.
18.   Early supervision was also incomplete, concentrating on the project's physical works to
the neglect of the unfolding resettlement disaster. Although reports sent by the Transmigration
Ministry to the Bank's resident mission suggested that the program was proceeding well, in fact
the people being transmigrated were for the most part not the people being affected by the
reservoir. This would have been readily apparent had resettlement been supervised in the field,
as evidenced by the fact that it was revealed by the first Bank resettlement mission to visit the
site in 1989.
19.   Bank performance improved dramatically beginning in 1989, when the Bank first became
aware of the gravity of the situation. Progress on the resettlement component began when the
Bank raised the issue with senior government officials, and the Bank and Government agreed
on a program of corrective actions. Specialist assistance began with the first mission to assess
the situation, and has continued regularly until the project's closing.  Responsibility for
resettlement was assigned to a separate task manager in order to ensure adequate attention, and
an experienced Indonesian staff member in the RSI was also assigned to ensure proper



61
implementation of the corrective action program. Monthly progress reports were sent to the
Bank for review.
20.   Although disbursements have been completed, the Bank has recommended  continued
monitoring of progress of the corrective actions and their impact on incomes among the resettlers
and their hosts. Although there is an agreement that funds from the ISSP-II project (Loan 3392-
IND) can be used to continue support for the NGO that has been providing credit and small
enterprise development services for the resettlers who have moved to the govemment
resettlement sites, contracts have been delayed and action has stopped. Provincial and line
agency programs are needed to finish the corrective action program under regular GOI budgets.
What Went Wrong?
21.   Ex post analysis of Kedung Ombo suggests that four major planning mistakes led to the
project's resettlement problems:
a)     Ouality of Baseline Work -- The most basic flaw  in the Kedung Ombo
resettlement program was the assumption that up to 90% of the people would join the
transmigration program. As a result, project planners had no alternatives available when more
than 80% of the people decided to remain. How could reputable research institutions and
international consultants make such a mistake?'
Throughout the project period, official Bank and borrower documents reiterate
claims that many resettlers changed their minds. A careful review of the documents provides
a more complex picture. There is no question that several people did, in fact, change their
minds. Many of the earliest transmigrants returned with stories of hardship in the new sites and
a significant percentage of the resettlers decided it would be better to accept the risks of a
kmown, familiar environment over the challenge of developing a frontier.
Sampling methodologies used in the baseline survey work were highly defective.
Most survey interviews appear to have consisted of talks only with village leaders. As official
appointees, one of their functions included promoting transmigration from the densely populated
areas of Central Java. It is not unreasonable to conclude that outside researchers were told what
they wanted to hear and not surprising that contradictory evidence can also be found in the early
studies: many interview transcriptions do not support the aggregated findings of willingness to
join transmigration. Some of these field interviews contained in the draft resettlement report
submitted by the university reported that "interviewed people in the village stated their
unwillingness for transmigration ....,.. but these findings were not included with the final
preparation report submitted to the Bank.
'   An identical situation repeated itself in the Bank-assided Power X (Saguling) and Power Xla projects. Appraial reports for the two
pmjects asumed that sone 60-80% would join Tranamigrtion programs. In practice, less than 30% did, again creating an energency
reettemeat sitation. In the case of these two projects, however, corrective actions based on the development of high-production reservoir
fiwies appear to have been succesful in remoring and in msny cases improving resculers' incomes.



62
b)   Inadequacies of compensation mechanisms. Government officials appear to have
followed existing compensation norms and regulations. At the heart of the resettlement problem
was the lack of compensation policies and mechanisms to assess property values at levels that
would allow resettlers to replace the land and other productive assets that they had lost.
Recognition of the need to improve compensation policies as demonstrated in the Kedung Ombo
case may have partially influenced GOI's new land acquisition policies (Kepres 55/93), which
require compensation to be paid at market rates.
c)    Failure to form an overall coordinating body -- The overall coordinating body for
resettlement described in the SAR was never formed.  Special committees established
compensation levels and provided coordination with the transmigration program. However,
there was no overall coordinating body endowed with the necessary powers to ensure that
programs were properly administered and implemented.
d)    Lack of effective local participation -- Local involvement in the project's design
and implementation was minimal. Until the corrective action program was developed, the main
planning assumption was that resettlers would be slotted into pre-designed programs.
Information in the region about what these programs were and what entitlements affected
families should have expected was scarce, and institutional avenues for addressing local concerns
were non-existent. The impact caused by the lack of an agency field presence and adequate
dissemination of information is highlighted by the improvements achieved by NGOs and the
project authority through the corrective action program.
Lessons That Can Be Learned from Kedung Ombo
22.   The Kedung Ombo project provides a case study to illustrate the findings of the 1994
Bankwide Resettlement Review5. Four lessons from the Kedung Ombo case are particularly
relevant for the Bank. First, field supervision is essential, particularly in the early years of
project implementation. In Kedung Ombo's case, supervision of resettlement aspects came late,
after the situation had deteriorated to the point where only salvage operations were possible.
Furthermore, it was only when resettlement specialists were incorporated into Bank missions that
the Bank's supervision focus moved away from project delays caused by land acquisition to face
the need to prepare a resettlement plan for the displaced people.
23.   The second lesson concerns the need for Bank decisiveness. Contemporary project
records repeatedly report that the situation was "under control" during the 1987-1988 period
when all other evidence demonstrates that this could not possibly have been the case. It is
significant that when the Bank began taking decisive actions in 1989, Government responded
positively and a corrective action program was developed and implemented.
24. The third point concerns the role played by NGOs and the internationalization of the
s Resettlement and Development



63
Kedung Ombo conflict. NGOs contacted the Bank and GOI as early as 1987 with information
that there were major problems with the resetlement operation, much of it subsequently
confirmed, but the Bank did not respond to the NGOs or supervise the component for more than
a year. This initial lack of interest in dialogue with NGOs contributed to the subsequent
polarization of discussion. Had the Bank and project authorities participated in an early,
informed discussion of Kedung Ombo with NGOs and other concerned groups, much of the
embarrassment and cost suffered by the Bank and borrower subsequently could have been
averted.
25.   Fourth, Kedung Ombo illustrates the need for matching participatory planning with a
focus on implementation. In comparison with many other projects from the same time period,
Kedung Ombo had a relatively comprehensive resettlement plan, although, as it turned out, one
built on very shaky foundations. Yet the apparently well-designed plan disintegrated soon after
project approval and proved to be largely irrelevant to much of the actual resettlement that took
place. In fact, project preparation and appraisal should have assessed the acceptability of
resettlement proposals to the affected population and local governments, and the ability of project
institutions to deliver them alongside construction of the main project.
Were Other Outcomes Possible?
26.   Kedung Ombo's case presents a difficult challenge for analyzing alternative approaches
to resettlement that might have led to a more successful outcome, even with the benefit of
hindsight. Land fragmentation and rural poverty were at such high rates in the project area that
land-for-land solutions in and of themselves were never a viable option. In objective economic
terms, transmigration was clearly the best option, and even today the families that joined the
transmigration program have by far the highest real incomes.
27.   From the farmer's perspective, the situation was considerably more complicated.
Interviews with the families who opted for the transmigration option suggest that (like elsewhere)
the families who joined transmigration were primarily the young, landless or particularly land-
poor villagers who had little to lose. For the others, perceived risks were much higher. Older
families with multiple plots, families with children attending school, and families with part-time
employment outside the reservoir had sound reasons to remain where they were, especially given
the difficulty of obtaining reliable information from local authorities. Contrary to project
assumptions, transmigration became a less rather than more popular resettlement option over
time.
28.   Regional economic evolution and the relative (although still early) success of the
corrective action program on government lands demonstrate that other options could have been
explored more carefully. Had the government lands that were eventually used for the
resettlement been part of the plan at the outset, early investments in improved fertility could
have prevented the steep income drop for the people who eventuaUy moved there as part of the
crash corrective action program. From the early 1980's, regional economic growth in Central
Java stemmed primarily from off-farm employment. Had the vocational training, fisheries, and



64
employment programs been instituted by a local government commitied to resolving the problem,
many of the resettlers most probably could have taken advantage of new, local opportnities.
Furthermore, had planning proceeded under conditions of openness and transparency, much of
the fear and uncertainty that led to the rejection of resettlement options would have been
diminished.
29.  Hindsight reveals three critical turning points in Kedung Ombo's history. Basdine work
was defective as much for the process by which information was gathered as because of the
information itself. Had initial assessments focused on developing mechanisms to improve local
participation and feedback between the government and the resettlers, planning would have boen
more flexible and the project management structure more responsive to a situation that was
highly dynamic from the outset. The second critical juncture was when the first NGO reports
were provided to the Bank. While supervision of resettlement should have been taking place on
a regular basis, LBH's submission to the Bank was the first documentary evidence that there
were major discrepancies between what the Bank thought was happening and what was taking
place on the site.  Furthermore, not only was an important opportunity to make early
interventions lost, but the initial lack of Bank response made NGOs feel as if they had little
choice other than to mount the bitter international campaign that ensued. The final tumning point
is a positive one: perseverance with the corrective action program has begun to show results in
the income of the affected families who moved to the new villages. Despite the late start,
further corrective action is feasible if preliminary GOI commitments are translate into adequate
budget allocations for the responsible central, provincial and local agencies.



MAP SECTION






1-'1                                                                                             y _~ ...... 11045                                                          11ii00
I A  I ~ ~       ~             ~             ~             ~            ~            ~            IDO EI
^ t ,K, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N  D                                                                                    O N  E S I A
KEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM PROJECT
LAYOUT OF IRRIGATION AREAS UNDER THE PROJECT    6h30
.U7                                                                       8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D,,,er,,o,  Weirs
Mo-  Conols
1103D                                                                                                                        Secondary Conols
0             S            10            15      KILOMETERS                                                                                 New  Ir,,got,on
____________________ I                                           f    J  ap aro                                                    r     1   E,sI,rmg    irr,g Ji~on
O                      S                     10 MILES                                                                                - II  Proposed Doms-/eseR-o-rs
!.- [ -ms\  Ummdr'm  I .l..lma,m  XIV
-      Flood Gores
r     D-versmon We,rs
Mo... Roods
ecsongoon        ,                R       o        ----y-
J A V A            Fr                                                                                                                    no0
(                    8                                                   1          ~~~~~~~~~       ~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~RENDUNG S I DOEJ
WEDUNG                                 g                   WEIR
O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,N o'-_tStEOUrG OM80                                                                                                                                               ___        ___ii
9770hma I                                                                                                                         0  a _
.                                                                                                                                        a
IlO'30'                                                                                                                                  tII'OO                                  rErTANG









I  fl  Z.



