Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4043-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$156 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
KEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM AND IRRIGATION PROWECT
April 24,1985
Tnis documet has a restricted distrbuion ad ay be used by recipiensl only in the performwace of
their offdl duties. Its contents my  no othwlwse be discosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00   =  Rp 1.100
Lap 1 million   =  US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BPKP        -   Financial and Development Supervisory Board
DGWRD       -   Directorate General of Water Resources Development
DJPKN       -   Directorate General of State Financial Control
DOI         -   Directorate of Irrigation
COI         -   Government of Indonesia
EYV         -   High Yield Varieties of Rice
ICB         -   International ComDetitive Bidding
IHE         -   Institute of Hydraulic Engineering
INPRES      -   Revenue sharing grant programs from GOI to district and
village authorities.
IPEDA       -   Iuran Pembangunan Daerah (land tax)
MPW         -   Ministry of Public Works
OEM         -   Operation and Maintenance
PLN         -   Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara
(the national electricity authority)
REPELITA    -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84;
Repelita IV, 1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94)
SIAP        -   Budget Carryovers
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
KEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           US$156 milLion equivalent
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable-rate.
Project
Description:   The main objectives of-the project are to increase food
production on some 59.340 ha. stimulate emplovment in the
project area. controL damaging floods in rural and urban
areas, supplement water suppLies for some 300 iz llages and
towns, generate 74 GWh of pouer which would be fed into the
national grid, and improve water management in the project
area. The project includes: (a) construction of the Kedung
Ombo Dam, appurtenant structures, diversion works, a hydro-
electric power pLant (28.5 MVA) and associated transmission
line (30 km, 150 kV), and three micro-hydroeLectric power
plants (about 1.8 MVA each) and associated transmission lines
(20 kV); (b) improving existing irrigation (34,240 ha) and
constructing two new irrigation systems (25,100 ha); (c)
establishing a flood warning and water monitoring system for
the dam and irrigation operations; and (d) provision of
technical assistance for: Ci) training in dam construction
and safety inspection and in reservoir operation; tii) design
of the irrigation works serving 121,300 ha from the Jatigede
Dam (West Java); (iii) surveys for updating classification of
land for tax purposes to improve cost recovery; (iv) surveys
for monitoring resettlement and compensation payments; and
(v) studies for soil and water conservation. Although
Indonesia is now largely self-sufficient in rice, steady
increases in national rice consumption and the very Limited
scope for expanding the irrigated area on Java make it vital
for the country to intensify food production by augmenting
dry season water supplies through the construction of
multipurpose dams. The increase -in cropping intensity thus
permitted would also have a substantial impact on raising the
incomes of smaLlholders and landless laborers in an area
where more than 602 of the population has incomes beLow the
absolute poverty line, about a third of farm households are
landless, and unemployment is high. The main project risks
are delayed land acquisition and inadequate opcration and
maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation systems. However, land
acquisition has already begun and Government has agreed to a
schedule and has given assurances on adequate funding for
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipents only in the performance 
of their aflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



this purpose. Shortfalls in O&M budgets are not expected in
view of assurances obtained for adequate funding and
Government's willingness to fund O&M costs for irrigation
projects from its development budget, and Erom increased
allocation of land tax revenues collected at the local level.
Estimated
Cost: la                                              Local   Foreign   Total
---- s(US  million)
Construction
Kedung Ombo Dam                            13.3      25.3    38.6
Power stations & transmission Lines         2.8      12.9    15.7
Irrigation                                 52.4      35.7    88.1
Equipment                                     4.7       9.6    14.3
Consultant services & training                7.8       7.3    15.1
Administration                               13.4        -      13.4
Land acquisition                             25.5        -      25.5
Base Cost                                 119.9      90.8   210.7
Physical contingencies                       15.1      12.3    27.4
Price Contingen:ies                          25.4      19.6    45.0
Total Project Cost                        160.4    122.7   283.1
Financing
Plan:    Bank                                          51.9    104.1   156.0
Government of Indonesia                     104.5       1.3   105.8
Export Credits                                4.0      17.3    21.3
Total                                     160.4    122.7   283.1
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY               1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
------ (US$ million) ------------
Annual                    6     18     34      41      38     19
Cumulative                6     24      58     99    137    156
Rate of Return:  17.4% overall, 16.7% for the irrigation component and 25% for
the power component.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5346-IND, dated April 24, 1985
Maps: IBRD Nos. 18529, 18530, 18531, 18544, 18555 and 18568R.
la   Costs exclude taxes of US$17.2 million on civil works, equipment and
services.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE KEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM AND IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$156 million to help
finance the Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and DeveLopment Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2. 1984. Annex I gives selected social and econo-
mic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1Z p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4Z p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP   r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries._
r
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth Popula-
tion Project (No. P-4026-IND), circulated under cover of R85-104, dated
April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for considera-
tion on May 7, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment.  However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$LO.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60Z of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
vices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth race of almost 4Z p.a. over the past decade,
and movement towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about L4Z p.a.), although this was from
a very low base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28Z devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industriaL
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e)  introduction of a comprehensive tax reform progran, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base,
simplifying the structure of rates and improving administration.



- 3 -
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4%
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, the current account deficit was reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4% of
GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$2.7 billion (3.5Z of GNP) in 1984/85.  The
major factors responsible for this improvement are import cuts, resulting from
the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand, and higher export earnings
from non-oil products, due to recovery in the industrial countries and the
Government's policies co promote non-oil exports. The Government's restraint
is-also evident in the budget, where real expenditures have probably fallen
over the past three years. This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep
domestic inflation down to abouc 12% in 1983 and 92 in 1984, despite the
inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devaluation and the petroleum
price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at Least 5% p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is
one of the major chaLlenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key policy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the
regulatorylpolicy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
B.        Tne projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years.  At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives.  It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government announced in August 1983 that there would be a major
overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objec-
tive of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist



measures and, most importantLy, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has aLready introduced a range of
export promotion measures tnLended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external paymencs situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial poiicies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might inciude a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the Longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impo-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natu-
ral increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those
of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the goverment budget. Regional variations in per capita con-



- 5 -
sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40Z; the decline wac particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The 1979-81 bumper
rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and incomes in Java,
while agricultural incomes in parts of the Other Islands dependent on export
crops declined. This situation may have been reversed following the 1983 de-
valuation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 19709, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this seccor will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on agri-
cultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at econo-
mic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural year
(e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to encou-
rage agriculturaL development on the Other Islands. It is also important that
public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as social
programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease the bur-
den of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government needs
to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population



had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Covernmenc's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essentiaL if the
Government's modest growth targets (5Z p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development assi-
stance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable leveL of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was estimated at
US$21.7 billion, with an additional US$13.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 23Z; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at
15 years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudent-
ly. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose co 26% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21Z in 1984 to around 24% and decline back to 21% in 1995. While
debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$938.5 million (less cancellations) and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7.021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.11, and
the share of debt service, 10.3% compared with 13.3% and 7.9%, respectively,
in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's lending in the
remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA
lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP
was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
Given the critical importance of agriculture- (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the Latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate pov-
erty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and
31   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth Popula-
tion Project (No. P-4026-IND), circulated under cover of R85-104, dated
April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for considera-
tion on May 7, 1985.



-8-
recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the
achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing diaLogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the
financial system, and public resource management. In the Lending program,
agriculture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is
broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human
resource development. Continued attention is being given to power and energy,
where the Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, racionalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the
Bank is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on
improving the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban
development and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to
developing innovative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and
strengthening local institutions, in order to minimize demands on the
Government budget and decentralize the responsibility for addressing basic
needs. In all, the Bank's lending program is intended to contribute about 20%
of Indonesia's capital requirements during the next three years and is
expected to be an important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where
possible, we are seeking also to widen the impact of Bank lending through
technical assistance, as well as complementary investments and coordinated
policy dialogue with other donors. This is especially true in our lending
programs for power, urban development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There hag,been a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio- from a low of L3% in FY80 to over 19% in FY84. The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in
commitments during the FY77-79 period, when total BankJIDA commitments to
Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However,
it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's
budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have
been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work out
corrective measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September
1979, November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9-
initiatives, the Government has taken measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
In addition, in order to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project
implementation difficulties, izany operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of
all of these activities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from
US$206 million in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is nevertheless clear
that continued efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of
disbursements are required, as Indonesia continues to sbaw a disbursement
ratio below the Bank-wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The
Bank is helping the Government in a special effort to identify problems in the
construction industry with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions
and policies. as weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been
identified as one of the major causes of implementation problems in
Indonesia. Efforts are also underway to develop standardized tender documents
in order to speed the procurement process, and to improve project monitoring
and land acquisition procedures. It is the Bank's and the Covernment's
intention to devote continued attention to these and other aspects of project
iimplementation in the coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is
realized from the Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Objectives
21.       The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of the rural
poor; (b) increase domestic food supply, especially rice, to keep pace with
rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's laud,
water, and natural resources.
Food Crops
22.       Given its limited manpower and financial resources, GOI has concen-
trated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred staple food of the
majority of Indonesians. Rice production grew from 13.1 million tons in 1970
to 23.3 million tons in 1983. During 1970-81, production increased by about
4.91 per year due to an increase in the harvested area and substantial yield
increases. Production slowed to 2.21 per year between 1981 and 1983 mainly
due to drought. Rice consumption during this period increased at an average
of 4.5% per year, stimulated by rising incomes. In 1980 and 1981, Indonesia
became largely self-sufficient in rice, and rice imports declined from 2.0
million tons in 1980 to 0.3 million tons in 1982. Although the poor harvest
of 1982 forced COI to increase imports once again, the 1984 rice crop is ten-
tatively estimated at 25.5 million tons, and buffer stocks have increased to
some 3 million tons. It is expected that for most "average rainfall" years,
rice production will meet demand, provided Lhat the present rate of irrigation
development is maintained. While production gains of other major food crops
(maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts and sweet potatoes) were not so impressive
as those for rice, they have exceeded population growth.



- 10 -
23.       In view of the importance  OI attaches to increased food crop pro-
duction, the Bank and OI have undertaken a series of sector studies, the most
recent of which are: Policy Options and Strategies for Major Food Crops, April
1983, Report 3686-IND; and Irrigation Sector Review: An Issues Paper, October
1982, updated in May 1984, which reviewed the irrigation work program and
budget in the Fourth National Five-Year Development Plan for 1984-89 (Repelita
IV).
The Irrigation Subsector
24.       Almost all rice production gains since 1968 have resulted from
improvements in irrigated and wetland farming. It is difficult to quantify
the contributions of the major factors (irrigation expansion and improvement,
modern varieties, and fertilizers), but it is estimated that about 16% of the
increases between 1970 and 1981 were associated soLely with expansion and
improvements in irrigation, about 9% with improved rice varieties and
fertilizer use, and some 75% with the joint interaction of these variabLes.
25.       Improved rice varieties and fertilizer use are likely co play a
lesser role in increasing Indonesia's future rice production. The use of high
yielding varieties (HYVs) is already high (about 80% of the irrigated and
wetland crop) and is unlikely to expand beyond 90% in 1990. Fertilizer use is
also high, particularly on Java, and nitrogen applications above present
levels aould be wasted and cause crop losses due to lodging and greater insect
damage. With such already high fertilizer and HYV use, future yield increases
will depend primarily on improving the quality of irrigation and water
management, and expanding irrigation to presently dryland areas.
26.       GOI's main objectives for water resource development during
Repelita IV are: investment in irrigation to sustain self-sufficiency in rice;
swamp reclamation for transmigration; and river control works to develop
multipurpose use of water resources for irrigation, municipal water supply,
flood mitigation, and hydropower. The sector work carried out by the Bank
with GOI assistance concluded that the following program of irrigation works
would be justified under the plan:
(a)  Completing construction of 0.5 million ha of ongoing rehabilitation,
and 0.2 million ha of new irrigation works including medium and
large-scale systems. New rehabilitation projects and tertiary
network construction of 0.6 million ha would be pursued, together
with 0.27 million ha of new small, medium, and large-scale
irrigation works. Construction of at Least two major dams on Java
to supply water for irrigation intensification will be included as
part of the program. This would enable OI to maintain self-
sufficiency in rice production, which requires an annual growth rate
of 3.5% (harvested area growth of 1.4% and yield growth of 2.1%);
(b)  Completing construction of ongoing works for 0.1 million ha of tidal
swamp reclamation (gross area), and a further 0.3 million ha of new
reclamation works to accommodate 20,000 to 25,000 transmigrant
families per year. An additional 0.1 million ha of already settled
inland swamp area need rehabilitation and improved water control;
and



- 11 -
tc) Constructing river control and improvement works (levees, dams,
etc.), and volcanic debris control in about 20 river basins
throughout the country so as to be able to make more efficient
multipurpose use of water.
27.       The need for dam construction in conjunction with multipurpose water
resource development is particularly acute on the island of Java which has an
irrigated area of about 3 million ha or 60% of Indonesia's total irrigated
area. Java has very little scope (about 160,000 ha) for new irrigation
schemes, and basic rehabilitation of the existing schemes is almost completed.
If rice productivity is to be improved, future investment will have to be con-
centrated on (a) incensive system upgrading to improve operations and facili-
tate maintenance, (b) construction of tertiary networks, and (c) augmentation
of dry season water supplies from multipurpose storage dams to increase
cropping intensities.
28.       Water resource deveLopment is also needed for flood control, munici-
pal water supplies and hydropower. On Java, extensive floods in the 1980/81
and 1981/82 wet seasons caused widespread disruption of road transportation
and damage to both agricultural and urban areas. At the same time, water
supplies in most rural areas are very limited, especially in the dry season,
and limited municipal and industrial water supplies for key cities (Jakarta,
Semarang, Surabaya, etc.) have slowed down development. Groundwater prospects
in these sites are not promising, and storage of water in dams seems to be the
most promising means of providing supplies.
29.       GOI started construction of two dams in late 1982, and has detailed
designs for nine others, the construction of which is phased to meet actual
requirements. At present, GOI places highest priority on the Kedung Ombo
Multipurpose Dam Project on Java in view of its major irrigation benefits in
an area now largely without dry season water but subject to flooding in the
wet season. The proposed dam would also generate power and develop municipal
water supplies for major towns in the command area (Demak, Crobogan, Pati)
once flows are controlled in the Serang River.
30.       GOI's program of irrigation and water resources development during
Repelita IV would cost an estimated US$4.4 billion of which about US$1.4 bil-
lion would be foreign exchange. About 85% of the investments would be for
ongoing projects, and the balance for new projects. New major dams account
for 10% of total investment requirements. Average annual GOI budgets for the
irrigation program will be around US$620 million (Rp 682 billion). GOI
expects to borrow for new commitments about US$260 million annually, and to
receive about US$260 million per year in disbursements from both new loans and
loans already committed.
31.       The main constraints on irrigation development relate to improving
irrigation system operation and maintenance (O&M) and insuring adequate cost
recovery. Siace current O&M standards are often inadequate, GOI has recently
decided to slow new irrigation investments and direct these funds to O&M. The
provincial services responsible for O&M are being improved under the Seven-
teenth Irrigation Project (East Java Province) (Ln. 2119-IND) and the Second
Provincial Irrigation Development Project (Ln. 2375-IND). Cost recovery



- 12 -
through the iPEDA (Land tax) is an efficient collection method, and links
Levies to the productive capacity of farm lands. However, reclassification of
newly irrigated lands and reassessment of land taxes have often been slow.
The proposed project therefore includes provisions to accelerate
reclassification and to increase O&M funding from increased land taxes (see
para. 59 below).
The Role of the Bank Group
32.       Since 1968, the Bank has provided US$1,018 million for irrigation
projects in Indonesia. The earliest projects were designed to repair major
systems to quickly increase rice output. Later projects provided additional
rehabilitation of existing systems, drainage, flood protection, and tertiary
networks. The most recent projects include measures to strengthen planning,
programming, and budgeting capacity and management information systems
(Irrigation Projects XV and XVI. Cr. 995 and Ln. 2118-IND, respectively), and
to build up the capacity of provincial irrigation services in East Java
Province (Ln. 2119-END) and in eight other provinces (Ln. 2375-IND).
33.       During Repelita IV, the Bank's involvement in the sector wiLl
emphasize institution-building and address persistent sector-wide problems
such as operation and maintenance standards. Lending will focus on:
(a)  strengthening of national and provincial irrigation services, and
improving their operation and maintenance performance; and
(b) a small number of technically complex projects or projects which
present difficult economic choices, or in which Bank participation
can mobilize significant cofinancing.
34.       The first six Bank-assisted irrigation projects have beee completed.
Project Performance Audits have been carried out for four projects- and a
follow-up Impact Evaluation Report on the first project (Cr. 127-IND) is also
available (Report No. 4575). The most serious implementation problems were
construction delays and cost overruns. The delays arose because of COI's
cumbersome local bidding, contracting and fund release procedures, and short-
ages of local funds. Cost overruns were due to additional quantities of work
required after detailed design, and increased unit costs due to rapid infla-
tion and construction delays. However, cost increases were more than offset
by higher rice prices, and economic rates of return are therefore expected to
exceed 40Z. Other problem areas include the need to improve operation and
maintenance services (O&M) at provincial levels; to provide technical and
administrative support to water user associations; and to promote efficient
water use. These problems are recognized in the strategy adopted for Bank
assistance.
5/   Credit 127-IND, PPAR Report No. 2047, May 1978.  Credits 195, 220 and
289-IND, PPAR Report No. 3269, December 1980.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       The proposed project was prepared by Government with the assistance
of consultants and was appraised in May 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 4 to 11, 1985. The Indonesian delegation was led by
Mr. Soebandi Wirosoemarto, Assistant to the Minister of Public Works,
Directorate General of Water Resources Development. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 5346-IND) is being distributed separately.  Supplemental project data are
available in Annex III.
Project Formulation and Bank Involvement
36.       The Kedumg Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project is part of
the Jratunseluna Basin Development Scheme in Cencral Java. In 1971, a master
plan was prepared for deveLopment of water resources in the basin. That plan,
together with later studies, identified the following priority needs for
various basin areas: rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, tertiary irriga-
tion network construction, flood protection and drainage, and construction of
the Kedung Ombo Dam and a barrage at Glapan to improve dry season water
supplies for irrigation and to prevent flooding.
37.       The Bank has been deeply involved in planning and implementing
projects in the Basin since the Irrigacion I Project (Cr. 127-IND) in 1968,
under which the then largely inoperative Sedadi irrigation systems were
repaired. Extensive tertiary development in the Sedadi and Klambu Kiri areas
was supported under Irrigation Projects VII and IX (Lns. 1268 and 1435-IND).
Additional drainage and flood protection works were also prepared under
Irrigation Project VII together with feasibility studies and designs for the
Kedung Ombo Dam and related irrigation development. Flood protection works
and drainage are being implemented under the Fourteenth Irrigation Project
(Ln. 1811-1ND), while construction of the dam and related irrigation facili-
ties will be carried out under the proposed project.
38.       Thus, the Kedung Ombo Dam is a key component in the development of
the Jratunseluna Basin, which the Bank has long supported; the Bank has played
a key role in the technical studies and design of the project; and the project
is in line with the sector strategy agreed with GOI for Bank irrigation
assistance.
Project Objectives
39.       The proposed project is intended to enhance water availability
through construction of a dam, expansion of irrigation facilities to the
Sidorejo and Klambu Kanan areas, and improvement of the previously rehabili-
tated irrigation system in the Sedadi and Klambu Kiri areas. The dam will
also reduce flooding, and will generate mostly secondary energy which will
help save fuel from thermal power stations. In addition, municipal water for
domestic and industrial use will be supplied through the irrigation canals
throughout the year. The specific objectives of the project are to: (a)
increase food production on 59,340 ha through irrigation and provide



- 14 -
additional employment opportunities; (b) control flooding in the lower and
upper reaches of the Serang River through construction of a dam which,
together with works constructed under the Fourteenth Irrigation Project (Ln.
1811-IND), will protect about 10,000 ha of productive land in Klambu Kanan and
5,000 ha in urban areas; tc) supplement municipal water supplies for some 300
villages and towns in the irrigation area; (d) generate hydropower; and Ce)
improve water management in the project area.
Project Components
40.       The four project components are:
(a) Dam Construction and Irrigation Development
(i)  Construction of the Kedung Ombo Dam and appurt nant struc-
tures. The dam would be a composite rockfill and earthfill
structure with a crest height of 61 m and a length of 1,600 m,
an embankment volume of 6.3 million cu m, emergency and
service spillways, and an irrigation and power outlet tunnel
of 3.8 m diameter by 270 m long. The reservoir impounded by
the dam will have an active storage of 635 million cu m;
(ii)  Construction of a new diversion structure at Sidorejo to
supply water for the Sidorejo (South Grobogan) system, and a
new diversion barrage at Klambu, with associated supply canals
for the Klambu Kiri (Lower Sedadi) and Klambu Kanan (Juana
Valley) irrigation systems;
(iii)  Construction of two new irrigation systems: the Sidorejo
(South Grobogan) system serving 6,100 ha; and the Klambu Kanan
(Juana Valley) system serving 19,000 ha. The Sidorejo system
will be equipped with automated hydrotechnical devices and
flow modules for 6,100 ha as a pilot system for improved water
management;
(iv)  Improvements to two existing systems: the Sedadi (Upper
Sedadi) system of 13,910 ha, and the Klambu Kiri CLower
Sedadi) system of 20,330 ha; and
(v) Provision of supplemental municipal water supply through
expansion of the irrigation canal system.
(b)  Power Development
Ci) Construction of a hydropower plant at the dam, including
installation of electrical and mechanical equipment for a
generating capacity of 28.5 MVA;
(ii)  Construction of a 30 km single-circuit transmission line (150
kV) and associated switchyards to connect with the national
grid; and



- 15 -
(iii) Construction of three micro-hydropower stations (about 1.8
HVA), at the Klambu barrage, and at the Sedadi and Sidorejo
weirs, and associated transmission lines (30 km at 20 kV) with
substations.
(c) Establishment of a Flood Warning and Water Monitoring Center at
Kudus for overall opec.-ation of the dam and irrigatior systems.
(d) Technical Assistance for: (i) training in dam construction
supervision and safety inspection, reservoir operation, and water
quality management and monitoring as well as establishment of a dam
safety inspection team; (ii) design of the Jatigede irrigation
systems; (iii) surveys for updating classification and assessment of
land for tax purposes, to improve cost recovery; (iv) surveys for
monitoring resettlement and compensation payments; and (v) studies
for soil and water conservation in t1! proposed Jatigede Dam
catchment area.
Status of Project Preparation
41.       Designs and all major studies for the main dam and power plant have
been completed. Documents for international competitive bidding (ICB) have
been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. Invitations to bid were
issued on August 6, 1984; bids were opened on December 6, 1984; the
recommendation of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
(DGWRD) for tender award was made on February 28, 1985; and the tender award
will be made late May 1985.   Conditions of loan effectiveness would be the
signing of the contract for dam and power plant construction and appointment
of the consultants for construction supervision (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Designs for the diversion tunnel, base camp and haul road
have been reviewed by the Bank. Their construction is underway by local
contractors and will be compLeted prior to the contract award for the main
dam. These initiaL works have been fully funded by GOI.
42.       Geotechnical investigations and detailed surveys and designs for all
major irrigation structures and canals have been completed. Detailed designs
for secondary and tertiary systems will be completed in stages by the end of
1986.  The present designs and investigations for these systems are sufficient
for making firm cost estimates. Tendering for the irrigation works is
expected to start in mid-1986. Detailed specifications and designs for the
flood monitoring system have been completed, are being reviewed by the Bank,
and will be tendered in July 1985.
Project Organization and Implementation
43.       The dam would be completed in four years (in early 1989) and irriga-
tion system construction in six years (in early 1991). These targets are
modest in terms of what has been achieved in dam and irrigation construction
in Indonesia.



- 16-
44.       The principal executing agency for the project wouLd be the DCWRD in
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). The existing Jratunseluna General Project
Office established in 1976 under che Directorate of Irrigation II (DOI-II)
would be responsible for construction of the dam, the power plant
substructure, and the major diversion, irrigation and drainage works as well
as administering all consultancy services. Three Project Ot'ices would also
be established to manage day-to-day supervision of construction of the dam,
power plant, and irrigation and drainage works. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that all staffing requirements for the Dam Project
Office will be met by September 30, 1985 and for the Irrigation Project Office
by January 31, 1986, and that vehicles required for implementation will be
provided on a timely basis (Schedule 5. paras. 2 and 10 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
45.       A panel of dam experts, already established to review designs, would
continue co review design and safety throughout construction, and report to
DOI-II. During negotiations assurances were obtained that comments made by
the experts prior to and during construction regarding safety and economy in
construction shaLL be taken into account and that their periodic reports shaLl
be made available to the Bank not later than one month after each visit
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Dam safety inspection will be
conducted on a regular basis by DGWRD after the completion of the dam.
Assurances were also obtained that GOI will submit for the Bank's review by
December 31, 1989, a plan for dam inspection arrangements and will carry out
such plan therafter as acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 5, para. 8 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The national electricity authority, Perusahaan Umum
Listrik Negara (PLN) under the Ministry of Mines and Energy, would be
responsible for construction of the power plant's superstructure, electrical
and mechanical facilities, equipment installation for the power plant, and
construction of the transmission line. The Institute of Hydraulic Engineering
(IHE) in the Institute of Research and Development in the MPW, would implement
the project's training component in consultation with the Directorates of
Rivers and Irrigation. IHE with the Project Office will also establish the
Flood Warning and Water Monitoring Center.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
46.       Total costs are estimated at US$283.1 million, including US$122.7 (or
43%) in foreign exchange. Taxes and duties of some US*17.2 million have been
excluded from project cost calculations. Project costs are expressed in
January 1985 prices. Unit costs for the irrigation system are based on
similar irrigation works in the project area and for the dam they are based on
the lowest bid prices. A 192 allowance for physical contingencies has been
included for the dam; 15% for the irrigation works; and 5% for consultant
services and special equipment. Price contingencies over the project period
amount to about 21% (US$45 million) of total base costs. Price increases for
local costs were estimated at 8% in 1985-1990 and 5Z thereafter; and for
foreign costs at 5X in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8X in 1987-1990, and 5% thereafter.
47.       The proposed Bank loan of US$156 million would finance about 60% of
project costs, excluding taxes (US$17.2 million), the reserved procurement of
vehicles (US$2.1 million), and equipment for the power component (US$21.3



- 17 -
million) which would be rinanced by export credits. The loan wouLd finance
the foreign exchange costs (US$104.1 miLlion) of the project and US$51.9
million of local costs. GOI would finance the baLance of US$105.8 million,
and is arranging for financing of the power component by export credits,
planned to be availabLe by December 1985.
Procurement
48.       Procurement arrangements under the project are summarized below.
Project Expenditure by Procurement Category
(US$ million)
Not              Bank  Export
Category                    ICB    LCB    Other  AppLicable  Total  Loan  credits
Civil Works
Dam                      43.7      -         -      -         43.7  32.3
Irrigation               35.0   77.0         -      -        112.0  82.9
Buildings                  -      0.4        -      -          0.4   0.4
Power Plant /a
Turbines and generator    -        -         -    15.5        15.5    -      15.5
Transmission line          -       -         -     3.9         3.9    -       3.9
Equipment and facilities  11.2    2.3         2.4/b   -         15.9  12.4        -
Consultants                   -      -       17.0     -         17.0  17.0        -
Training                      -      -        0.7     -          0.7   0.7        -
Administration                -      -         -    13.4        13.4    -         -
Land Acquisition              -      -         -    27.3        27.3    -         -
Physical contingencies/
unallocated              14.7   11.8        1.0    5.8        33.3  10.3      1.9
Total              104.6   91.5      21.1   65.9        283.1 156.0    21.3
(75.0) (62.9)   (18.1)  (-        (156.0)
/a   GOI will use ICB to tender for export credits.
7i   Portion to be tendered under limited international bidding (LIB).
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.
49.       The dam and associated works (US$43.7 million) will be constructed
through a single contract procured using ICB procedures. The Klambu barrage,
Klambu Kanan main canal and Sidorejo weir (US$35.0 million) will be contracted



- 18 -
through ICB procedures. A series of about 56 smaller contracts (US$77.0
million) will construct smaller and widely distributed irrigation works which
are unlikely to attract foreign contractors. For these, local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank will be used. Procurement of
major equipment for operation and maintenance (US$1.8 million) and for
specialized telemetry and computers for flood warning and water monitoring
(US$9.4 million) will be procured through ICB. Other small laboratory,
office, hydrometeoroLogic, and minor O&H equipment (US$0.9 million) will be
procured in small lots through GOI procurement procedures accepcable to the
Bank.
50.       The Bank reviewed the contract documents for the dam (US$43.7 mil-
lion) and found them satisfactory prior to the tender invitation in August
1984.  Prior to tendering and award, the Bank will review about 24 additional
contracts (USS79 million), each valued at over US$1.5 million. About 32 other
contracts (US$33 million) would be reviewed by the DGWRD's Procurement Control
Unit, and subsequentLy by the Bank, on a sample basis after award. The two
ICR equipment contracts (US$11.2 million) would be reviewed by the Bank prior
to tendering. Equipment procured in small lots valued at not more than
US$0.2 million would be reviewed after award on a sample basis.
Disbursements
51.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:  74% of
the total cost of civil works for the dam and irrigation, excluding taxes;
100% of the foreign cost of imported equipment and materials; 951 of the total
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods; 65% of the total cost of equip-
ment and materials procured locally; and 100X of the cost of consultant
services and training. Disbursements would be made against contracts, except
for training costs and civil works contracts costing less than US$1.5 million,
which would be disbursed against statements of expenditure. Disbursement under
the project is expected to follow the Indonesian and Bank-wide disbursement
profiles for similar works. The Loan Closing Date would be December 31, 1991.
Accounts and Audits
52.       Detailed separate accounts and records are kept by DGWRD and PLN for
each budget item by project and budget year. Carry-overs of unspent funds
(SIAP) are permitted for two years.  Because SIAPs are permitted, cash books
and accounts are not closed until the budget for the line item has been fully
spent. Project accounts are subject to two audits: (a) by the Inspector
General of MPW, and (b) by the Financial and Development Supervisory Board
(BPKP). The work of both auditors has been found to be generally satisfactory
on Bank-assisted irrigation projects. Under the project, adequate and
separate accounts would be maintained; all contracts, orders and receipts
would be kept for at least one year after the closing of the loan; and
independent audits by BPKP, of each year's accounts would be submitted to the
Bank within nine months of the close of each COI fiscal year (Section 4.01(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
53.       After completion of construction, O&M of the dam and the irrigation
systems would be the responsibility of the Project Offices together with the
Water Control Center at Kudus.  blot less than two years after completion of
construction, this responsibilitv would be turned over to the Provincial
Government of Central Java. Day-to-day operations would be controlled by the
Water Allocation Committee to be established under the project. Water users
associations would be responsible for O&M of the tertiary and quaternary
canals.
54.       The four project irrigation areas now fall under three regional
irrigation offices and four sectional offices. Since the operation of the dam
and irrigation systems will need to be coordinated very closely, the Provin-
cial irrigation Service in Central Java is reorganizing its offices and
operations to: (a) reconfigure regional boundaries to follow watershed
boundaries of catchments, which means that all four irrigation areas under the
project will fall under one regional office with its headquarters at Kudus;
(b) establish a new sectional office for the operation of the dam; (c)
establish the four project irrigation areas under three sectional offices; and
(d) establish a Water Allocation Committee composed of the four sectional
representatives involved in project irrigation and dam operations to determine
the weekly operating rules for water reLeases from the dam and proposed
allocations for the various systems. The Water Allocation Committee would be
advised by the Water Control Center to be established at Kudus. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the reorganization and coordi-
nation arrangements would be carried out as described above by April 1, 1989
(about two years before project completion), and that the Water Control Center
would have adequate trained staff in place by April 1, 1989 (Schedule 5, para.
3, of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       O&M for the completed power station would be handled by PLN which,
by July 31, 1989, would agree with DGWRD and the Provincial Covernment on
operational rules and criteria for the utilization of reservoir water for
irrigation and power purposes (Schedule 5, para. 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). In the event that any substantial changes in the cropping pattern
and/or irrigation releases from the dam are proposed which could affect power
generation, DGWRD would consult PLN before such changes are adopted and the
Bank would be informed of any proposed changes.  A 50% share of the cost of
O&M of the dam intake and irrigation/power tunnel and all O&M costs of the
powerhouse would be borne by PLN. During negotiations, assurances were be
obtained on the above provisions (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Funding.  O&M funding requirements for the project have been
estimated for the dam, irrigation works, power station, and for drain
waterways. Financing of the main irrigation system by GOI has been increasing
steadily over the past few years, and in 1983/84 O&M of Bank-assisted projects
began to be funded from the development budget, reducing the shortfall in
funds required from about 40Z to 20Z. Additional funding sources for O&M has
been agreed in principle with GOI by the use of revenues to be collected from
increased land taxes (para. 58 and 59 below). During negotiations assurances
were obtained that sufficient funds will be allocated for O&M of project works
(Section 5.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Income Levels and Cost Recovery
57.       The most recent Bank estimate of the absolute poverty level for
rural areas in Central Java is about US$103.5 per capita per year, similar to
the level for all Indonesia of about US$103.1. However, consumption estimates
indicate that since 1980, the position of Central Java compared to the rest of
Indonesia has worsened. Bank estimates of the incidence of poverty reveal
that rural areas in Central Java have 62Z of the population with incomes below
the absolute poverty level, whereas the national average is 43Z in absolute
poverty. At present, most of the beneficiaries in the project area have
incomes below the absolute poverty level and it is estimated that only farmers
with farm sizes 0.4 ha and above would have increases in income with the
project which would cause them to rise above the absolute poverty level.
58.       There are no direct irrigation water charges in Indonesia, except
contributions by farmers of irrigated Lands to village water masters and wacer
user associations, for the upkeep of tertiary irrigation systems. The lack of
appropriate revenues in the irrigation subsector, unjustified in view of
significant benefits attributable to irrigation, imposes an unduly heavy
burden on GOI in financing new developments and in operating and maintaining
irrigations systems. To ease this burden, revenues in the irrigation subsec-
tor should be increased, commensurate with benefits. In view of a long
tradition of farmers' perceived inalienable right to free surface water, and
various political and social constraints, Government is not ready, at this
time, to impose water charges, and the most practicable way of increasing
revenues appears to be an increase of land taxes (IPEDA) by applying esisting
laws and regulations linking land taxes with, inter alia, rice production and
rice prices. A dialogue has been initiated with Central Java's provincial
government to channel locally generated funds through this mechanism for O&M
of main and secondary irrigation systems and an agreement has been reached in
principle.
59.       IPEDA (Iuran Pembangunan Daerah), literally a contribution for rural
development, is commonly collected from farmers by provincial governments
through village heads and aLlocated at the Kabupaten (District) level. The
tax is used for a variety of rural developments but is usually not used for
the upkeep of main and secondary irrigation systems, which have traditionally
been financed by Central Government. In Central Java farmers pay land taxes
and make in-kind payments to their village water masters who are responsible
for tertiary network operation and maintenance. Land is classified according
to a number of physical criteria and the land tax is charged at a fixed tariff
which varies by land class and total landholding. With the irrigation and
other improvements provided by the project, land classes and consequently
taxes are expected to increase. At full development, the land tax in the
project area will range from about US$13/halyear to abouL US$22/ha/year. At
full development, incremental land tax revenue will more than cover incremen-
tal O&M costs for the main and secondary networks. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that all land to be irrigated under the project will
be reclassified and new land taxes reassessed and collected in accordance with
the implementation schedule of project works, and that GOI will furnish to the
Bank by December 3i, 1988, a plan to assign a portion of tax revenues thus
collected to O&M of project works following construction (Section 3.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
60.       The cost recovery index, ranging between about 6X and 26X (averaging
16:), is the ratio of the present value of incremental direct revenue (the
land tax and other contributions) to the pesent vaLue of incremental finan-
cial project costs in January 1985 terms.-   The rent recovery index, ranging
from about 6% to almost 23%, is the ratio of the present value of incremental
direct revenue to the present vaLue of incremental net financial project
rent. These rates are in line with those in similar recent projects in
Indonesia. The recovery rates are considered reasonable due to the low
incomes of project beneficiaries.
Agricultural Development
61.       Services.  The main source of inputs for rice production in the
project area is the INMAS program which provides farmers with subsidized HYV
seed, fertilizer. nerochemicals and technical advisory services. Under the
program, farmers pay cash for the production inputs. Since 1979 another
approach, the INSUS program, has been expanding progressively in the project
area. The objective of the INSUS program is to encourage farmer groups, in an
area of not less than 10 ha, to organize land preparation and planting within
specific time limits, to organize effective water management, to use HYVs and
recommended fertilizer inputs, etc. Crop production intensification methods
with use of HYVs and fertilizer inputs are well established in the project
area and during each of the past five years it is estimated that improved
technology has been adopted in more than 90Z of the area planted with rice.
Milling and marketing facilities in the project area are considered adequate
to handle the incremental production resulting from the project. In order to
meet the increased marketing needs resulting from the project, various access
roads to villages and production areas will be constructed or improved in the
project area (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Market Prospects.  Central Java is only now approaching self-
sufficiency in rice. Although the world price of rice has fallen sharply,
production will be encouraged to guarantee the stability of Central Java's
rice self-sufficiency and provide surplus rice for other regions. Thus,
marketing prospects for paddy should remain favorable, and in the event of
lower prices, farmers are expected to increase secondary crop production.
Environmental Impact
63.       Environmental impact assessments are being updated and completed by
the University of Padjadjaran, supervised by consultants. The proposed dam
would substantially reduce flood peaks downstream of the Serang and hence
mitigate annual flood damage in the area. The dam would also provide muni-
cipal and industrial water supply for small towns and villages and thereby
reduce the incidence of enteric diseases. In addition, drainage improvements
should reduce the incidence of malaria and improve the quality of life.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Project Office will
6/   Discounted at the opportunity cost of capital of 10% over the project
life of 30 years.



- 22 -
cooperate with the public health authorities to increase effective malaria
control in the project area and that a water quality monitoring system will be
established in the project area by June 30, 1991 (Schedule 5, paras. 6 and 7,
of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, during negotiations assurances were
obtained that measures wouLd be taken for improvement of soil and water
conservation for the catchment area of the Serang River, in connection with
the USAID/Bank-assisted Upland Agriculture and Conservation Project (Ln. 2474-
IND) (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, studies will be
undertaken for improved soil and water conservation for the proposed Jatigede
Dam catchment area.
64.       Some 5,390 families (23,380 people) in 20 villages in the dam area
will have to be relocated. Because they are cultivating poor and eroded
upLands and have incomes at the absolute poverty line, about 75% of these
famiLies incend to transmigrate rather than resettle Locally. The villages
concerned have sent representatives to review the proposed transmigration
sites in Irian Jaya and Bengkulu in Sumatra, and they were satisfied with the
sites; 300 families have already transmigrated. The Project Office in
cooperation with the Central Java Provincial Coordinating Committee has
prepared resettLement compensation payments and schedules acceptable to the
Bank. For families preferring relocation in Java, the District Coordinating
Committees will give them preference for vocational training and work in locaL
rural works programs and in the project's civil works construction program.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOI would provide adequate
and timely budgetary resources for compensation payments and would provide to
the Bank annual reports on the resettlement, compensation, and welfare of
people affected by the reservoir construction commencing December 31, 1985
(Schedule 5, para. 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
65.       The project complements the previous Bank support to water resource
development in the project area. Earlier projects concentrated on rehabilita-
ting the existing irrigation system, mitigating flood problems by constructing
drainage, and undertaking extensive tertiary development in the Sedadi area.
The proposed Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project will enhance
overall water availability through water storage in a dam, expansion of the
irrigated area and substantial improvement of several existing irrigation
systems in the Sedadi area. The project would also assist ongoing flood
control activities through reservoir operation and the continuation of
drainage works. Some power would be generated from the operation of the
reservoir, and drinking water would be supplied through irrigation canals
throughout the year. Overall, the project has an estimated economic rate of
return of 17.4Z, 16.7Z from the irrigation component and 25% from the power
component.
66.       The project's agricultural benefits will accrue to approximately
87,000 farm families who will directly benefit from the project in terms of
increased incomes due to increased agricultural production. With the project,
cropping intensities will increase in the 59,340 ha service area from the
present 175% to about 230%. This change results in an incremental area of
83,450 ha growing rice (wet and dry season), an 236% increase over the



- 23 -
present. Incremental rice production due to the project would be about 0.29
milLion tons per year at full development (1993), while secondary crop produc-
tion is expected to decline by 35,480 tons from the current level of output.
Including the impact of the Fourteenth Irrigation Project, incremental annual
rice production will be about 0.34 million tons in 1993, but secondary crop
production will decline by 12,780 tons per year. The increase in agricuLturaL
production will generate about US$41 million a year in incremental agricul-
tural earnings. Although on the smallest farms (0.1 ha in Sedadi and Klambu
Kiri, and 0.2 ha in Sidorejo ant' Klambu Kanan) incomes with the project will
remain below the absolute poverty level, farmers will still be substantially
better off, and incremental incomes at full project development (1993) are
expected to rise between about 47% and 145%, with a weighted average increase
of 98Z over the whole project area.
67.       The increase in agricultural production in the project area will
also resuLt in a substantial increase in agricultural employment in the
project area. The incremental agricultural Labor demand at full project
development is expected to be about 8.7 million man-days. This represents an
increase of 10.3 million man-days or 89Z over the present.
68.       The project's power-related benefits would be incidental to the
operation of the reservoir and secondary to the main objective of providing
irrigation. On average, 74 GWh of electrical energy would be generated per
year. In financial terms, the main benefit from the energy generated would be
savings in fuel costs of US$2.7 million to US$4.0 million per year from oil-
fired power stations (till 1994) and subsequently averaging US$4.3 million per
year from coal-fired power stations. The economic benefit of this power is
equated to the tariff revenue collected. From the commencement of power
generation in 1989, this is about US$6.16 million per year.
69.       The main risks associated with the project concern delays in land
development due to delayed land acquisition and inadequate O&M. If land
acquisition for the dam were delayed by two years, providing a two-year lag in
agricultural benefits, the ERR would fall to about 13.4%. An increase of
about 50% in total costs or a decrease of about 42% in total benefits would be
required to reduce the ERR to 11.8% and 10%, respectively. The cost of
capital in Indonesia is currently about 10%. To minimize the possibility of
delay and higher costs, land acquisition has already begun and assurances on
timely transmigration arrangements will be obtained (para. 64).
70.       The standard level of O&M assumed for the project aims to produce an
irrigation sysrem efficiency of 50%. The estimated impact of different levels
of O&E on project benefits was investigated but due to the discounting
process, the ERR is little affected by the impacts of changes in O&M expendi-
tures. Comparing the change in O&M costs to agricultural benefits over the
project life, however, shows a considerable trade-off. In the case of very
poor 6&M, "savings" of about US$1.99 million net present value in O&M costs
result in losses of US$30.25 million net present value in agricultural
benefits. Similarly, in the case of poor O&M, "savings" of US$1.3 million in
O&M costs result in losses of US$8.58 million in agricultural benefits over
the life of the project. Shortfalls in O&M are, however, not expected in view
of agreements to be obtained under the project and Government's willingness to



- 24 -
fund the O&M costs of Bank-assisted projects from its development budget
(para. 56).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Conditions of loan effectiveness are the signing of the contract
for dam and power plant construction and appointment of the consvItants for
construction supervision (para. 41). Other special conditions of the pro-rt
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors aprrove the proposed loan.
A. i. Clausen
President
Attachmpnts
April 24, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                      Page I of 5 pages
INDOSCRIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNIET
INDONESIA  ~ ~      ~      MfREPEREH  GROUPS (WElCUIRD AVERAGS) 
MUST                    (NOST ECCNT ETINATU) Qb
R                uCENT  MIDDLE NCUM     MIDLE INCOIIC
m@oL!l     im&0  RJTlIlITL/        ASIA L PACTFIC         LAT. AMICA A CR
AMA (ThOUSD S. S-
TOTAL                              1919.3      1919.3   1919.3
AGRICULTURAL                        196.5      307.1    317.3
M?r MR ChUIT' (39)                      90.0       110.0    NSO.0             1091.2                  2106.6
TNIm    COma  on PER CrPTA
CEILOCRANS OF OIL EQUIVALZNT)        68.0       9B.0    191.0              567.3                    995.'
POPUIATON AND VITAL TAS1CCS
-POPULATIUN.NID-UEAR (THOUSANDS)    9468O.O   11620O.0  152598.0
URAIN POPULATION (I or TOTAL)        14.6        17.1     22.3              34.7                     66.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                         212.0
STATIONARY POPULArtON (KILL)                           310.1
-                             POPUIATION IlNENTUt                                       1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sQ. KM.                        49.3        60.5     77.9             261.9                     35.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND            319.3       378.4    471.0             1735.1                    92.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 1RS                          40.7        44.0     39.5              39.0                     39.9
15-64 SRS                          56.Z        53.4     57.3              57.6                     56.0
65 AND ABOVE                        3.1        2.5       3.1               3.3                      4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.0      2.3               2.3                      2.4
URBAN                               3.7         3.6      4.5               4.3                      3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATS (PER T190S)         44.2       41.0      33.6              30.1                     31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEM  TOUS)        Z2.9       17.6      13.0               9.5                      8.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.7        2.7       2.2               2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ANNUML (THOUS)            ..       181.1   3051.0
USERS (2 OF MARRIED llMON)           ..          ..     53.0 Ic           52.7                     40.3
Aui Am mO H
INEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        93.0      102.0    117.0              123.0                    114.3
FER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)       86.0        96.0    110-0              114.4                    110.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           38.0       44.0      49.0              57.0                     67.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         6.0         6-0      7.0 Id            14.1                     34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          22.9       16.9      13.0               7.2                      5.7
RmT
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        41.2       47.0      53.3              60.4                     64.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       149.9      120.9    102.0               66.3                     60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0     23.0              37.0                     65.4
URBAN                                ..        10.0     41.0              54.5                     76.1
RURAL                                ..         1.0     18.0              26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
Z( OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          15.0     23.0              41.3                     52.9
URBAN                                ..        19.0     20.0              47.4                     67.0
RURAL                                ..        14.0     24.0              33.3                     24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSIcIAN          46760.0    Z6510.0  11530.0 I.          7749.4                   1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            4510.0 if  7b80.0   2300.0 7e          2460.4                    b15.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1360.0      1650.0   1720.0 Ie         1044.2                    367.2
URBAN                             250.0          .     700.07i           651.2                    411.5
RURAL                                ..          ..   3160.0 {7         2594.6                   2636.3
ADMIHSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..      22.4 lb           27.0                     27.3
BOwIsG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOrAL                               4.4         4.8
URBAN                               4.9         5.3
RURAL                               4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROON
TOrAL                                ..         1.5
URBAN                                ..         1.6
RURAL                                ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (l OF DSELLINCS)
TOTAL                                ' ''
URAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                                    ..                ..



-26 -                                        ANNl I
Page 2 of 5 page.
UCIIIS       DYM   INCIN           mms4
1i9t61     197i1k ua t             ASIA A mane            L-. uuuCA & Ca
ARUUSD  UNDSLLNIET 3A103
aRUtin   TOtAL                     71.0       77.0    100.0              102.0                    105.4
KALE                    86.0        63.0    106.0              105.9                   106.3
INALZ                   518.0       71.0     94.0              96.2                    104.3
ucEoMAITY TOTAL                     6.0.0               20.0              46.0                     U2.2
FAL                     10.0        20.0     36.0              48.7                     42.3
INILm                    3.0        10.0     24.0              43.1                    46.5
VOCAIOAL CZ or SEON)                 20.4       22.1      13.4              17.5                    33.6
PRIKAR!                            29.0       29.0      32.0              31.8                    30.1
SC1000*Y                          14.0       13.0      16.0              23.5                    16.8
ADULT LITERACY RtE (2)               39.0       56.6      62.0              72.9                    79.5
PASSENGER CAaS/TBOUSAND POP          1.1         2.1      4.4               10.1                    46.0
zADOX DRZCIVNRB/THDUSAND POP         7.2        21.9     :2.4              113.6                   225.6
TV EEZIES/STHOUSAD PFOP              0.1         0.8       9.6              50.1                   107.2
SUSPAPER ("DAuLY GCERAL
ISTERIS") CRCULATIO
PZR SHOUSAND POPULATION            11.0         ..      17.7 A            53.9                     63.5
CDEMA ASMAL ATZRSDANCZ/CAPITA         2.8         ..      0OJ                3.4                     2.8
TOL LIABOR FORCE (T100])          34791.0    41090.0  54689.0
1rA.E  PEIRCEST)                   27.8       30.9      29.1              33.5                    23.2
ACR.CULTuRE (PERCENT)              75.0       66.0      58.0              52.2                     31.5
INDUSTRY (POCEIT)                   9.0       10.0      12.0              17.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              36;7       35.*      35                38.7                     32.2
HALE                               54.2       49.5      51.1              50.                    49.3
FEMALE                             20.0       21.6      20.7              26.6                     15.2
ECONONlC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2        1.3       1.2               1.1                     1.4
IDI DISRBTO
PERCENT 0W PRIVATE INCOM
RECEIVED 8Y
HXGST 5Z OF HOUSEOLDS                ..         ..      23.5 ft           22.2
HE-Z  SZT O2 0  U1                  ..          ..      49.4 i            48.0
LOWEST Ozm OF BOUSE.                            ..S      6.613             6.4
LOWEST 40i OF IOUSEROLDS             ..         ..      14.4              15.5
sumSI; T       CRmU
ESM     ABSOLUTE POVrT  INC
LEVEL (US1 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..       z.o 11 124.0 li            188.6                    288.2
RURAL                                ..       106.0 7T  106.0 7T         152.0                   184.0
ESTIMD RELATIVE POWET IACOME
LEML (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         ..    119.0 /I           177.9                   522.6
RUALo .                                         _.      98.0 7r          164.6                   372.4
ESrIMATED POP. EELS ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URAN                                ..        51.0 /i  26.0 i             23.4
RURAL                                ..       59.0717  44.0717            37.7
- O AVAILA.LE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
I   The group tavra. for each Indicator are populscion-wilghted arithmtic mean. Coverage of countrie sang the
Indlcators depend. oan avilabillty of data nd  e not uniform.
lb  Unles otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to eny yeer betwee  1959 end 1961; -Data for 1970' betwee  1969 and
1971; end date for -Soat Recent EStimte" betwee  1990 and 1982.
Ic  1983; /d 1977; /a 1979; /f 1962; it 1976; lb 1975; I. 1980 prices.
JUE* 1984



-Ild-tn-i s-nv)'
P-   0PW  ltd a. a  s   -  mInA. sss~.nA%  pis.nas
P'5set  *            Ids  M  31mpwuj  1 bp .q.
a.a -    Suae Iadsdiatp *Pa.de  utsMlas P9 flhgsss  -P J h. .
-  5lt6-         -M - i      1q 4 LI  u P - h .qsa..-      i"5A  -fl  .-q-
Docl P   aa  eqan Pt-- ta  Ota1t  - P.3-odd    isv41          q * -j
-al   01st   1-        pesa!  saisl 5. nlael al..    "As  5ld
-    'i 1-I-WAd  P---ua a   -J  3sq 3 a. as    hdIl-l gtsnlhw,p
p,t .                                                                        pea".sd   n.ts.ih  Inuisa -          alss     a-dqshin pailsdeAal.
. n--ldsq -cetua-Ca  p.swlsavlassl                                                                        3Mp155)    R.].  ft. 5 wI.u*ptaILS.  as
_________  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ .-n   e"   p.- Gagst o0.l :wnn 
*hi   -               (e  ph   eqw  ninenB 15-"d -I-                P-a -nilla.   lis  p je   all 5M1..lewa  - gsaeei ah5U It as5sswO  5fl..
!ea   q  S5PealJs  55 9s-  ll 'MA1  Lsuw   "s.    eSa   i.eaad,l let in    l 'Ov.l1wls -ill -as pnllhi e.-P -uas.s
flide sad 5*.31        2-palqua       than   s. &3ass. .eItlwa  I-s'q                     S.i4d;t-np  -ss 71 4.5h  hMaw *uqua ml 'apt    - 'nh'S v-i dIaff S9
- test pa. sqs-   gn.- a-lI)  -a  - -  u-sassmtpsalhn  Wa-elI ahd Maes"-P   s.   TV-(is.h   .'Iq                                               .  (v-I -1w) Wit
tea  l *ealteaapos-he tet"-s  let. iIll unewpe. Altlsul1uin                          gu1 p- wj.t  av-5n, ti  -pah -h 1_x           Se   --a-   ft
inIte 0 t3lt alat lash! lWht tat. ni t.n.t asa' II5~~~~a5d slstasee   ps-a ja AIdes slwaa,a - Isi- i.e i-in asj .iha ut-a-- suuh.~~~~P-a-T
- et  eosqe-1   (eIf  a   a   iMM a"I-,, sussw   sisiwJsJqAjpl.s-ntlsl                                    -es eS in p-e   Iv-;Z-tvel tfl     p.j nia pSTe
lstuse  "leae-.a_ qua. pssse   qpss                                     5    w  aPseded 'PlhC5 sll  55 hbina-             ClT.-a  1-1   J.
35 lesPa.d at swnas-d ,se  ae.assd S Peasaed  uswas.d Il l.MSua  lehlPnd   ~~~~~aa P-- e - intle  sqP-eAa as dAedOd 155lLapJ. --r (asS.isle.g m
un-.pp1 A  peascs  - (P-I% in  4-~ -5 vi-e)   asjsaws -   iushe                           .11. -ll gw  _saas  .l-~ - i-P-             S)3swhp05fiase
-r-    -1. a-IT   ttv(Im  psi. aeta A i efs   v -I,.sl'It.  Apse  -5P-sh-- tins-amaa  tsjsusn. q-I-.q inPl-                                            I
Id-   d1b 11        .1-j p-g-swaa.l  eje na ;.f  Aa  --aids  -Wthaie  51*n1-11   paAltsad   s.   s. s -Ii
v   p-s nt -e   a  slens   q   -eesa.l'a    ssaaasAs 'Pl:1tbhe5.stda    us-   "                                                   s-   at  a-t  in-T-     d
-   5jsO    lsi   *5    ts  -pasw-.'-lA hlhIs5 Ate'      elsisl  elh5   ss wdd S.                                                                        P-ta,                                       i
-v-lalais-Ad - stan in  --,  i.r --J  (laaa.   *u  hnhsis"s-'
_W1 &_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'apthm  a                                      s.   p   nal _a-itileq"s s.d  s-Asd.b.a-.ae"-Ipa.
ens 'ave. lsashJ ~M~l Inst a se:snasasi  P-e      in6 301.5 'Astnshl                 uAswe   saa.nu.ahattad                    ipi,as5- h   n 1
VInA bjana la %.iiwisaUip  l  h-faqj-(.ase   ssp:--~sstue   tw~s ink -J~~   es- ru    aS.      .u51aaa
55511i  t*    %    ilf                 itW   p .eea.-aaad - d      ttl                  -v-al pan-5s-J  =.n.  PslAnsm               &Ui -01. aA. Ad.a - ns in ina
pa  llag  ql-J  isess ' sl-JaM) -(uasst Isleshi              inP        MS'5- lm5l5asP0        .'tln5    n  it'  -J mAl.aPs yaws.'
saa~ sqsutea.    seusss-dn  asn  snt  ~as- (.aa`) a`s wl l5 sa    Q Sap.o, -(Al-l -mlm  eas.  awSlPp55P                                  11.sh
-el.p (i5u in tad' leS 1.i,s5                                                 J.                    -liAl  T" 
ph. htpei-t  -lessi sauaavLtteawa.q - (.ps-ssl)-."   s.'  en-sjInu.'qi   a   m'asas                                               W-       . Nt.i-plilqaP
alll.1-  -Wftisas   TIO_ qIl EyVt                  as llam       I-III    li 51 -.e laldl.a-ls.s aw saSM    atuaa
P--Pj-   -1 32  1-iddO 9-341.-   da--ps Alll.n  s blthea e.apCe  uan-dI'a -                                                             v
"-    '43 --M - C-l"Il-'l4'iaflaipun-Pa-b-43sae    (C                                                   alsd  JI uwalac   aa   sstU-ti l-h
-I     1=- 5AL etls   0    a   atsepCuptil'mA5   uld,imp              .                                         -2PJ   .W.AdA  Pu.. t   Ill                 seslsda-
5.I AsL   q -   pass -M  5e1  -  lIes55    Addael  .t .            sTdIA-6a11ei   ilklmetsa wsatas' s-el- v-wasp eeasaa13stv 
'ighaS  i1 J~fl    s  II niesift tI a  fludi.. -q 5       Cait    -vru  P  Mj tes   lA,I'ats  t"'sae lssst-sf -) antsd 4         l - i
W.P;e-a '1 Ii   asa tesa.m illtpaess  a  Atls'vtah paimp n.Il.sit,P,!!!,
ishasuad- -int.''5Md5hC  StIlsltes'sAlup.Si lueasa                                 i   'is  ins'i  etn 'haa  sid~stSAf*vsm isas L11Taa
usese-es 5-a wat-a-a s  - (setetnawa   n'a'll ..)  aLfllese  as          als-el. - I"  'meesq  as  sla   It-he - (p-a) ash  aaeIi sgs  seems
uAeil-f. -            -Is0.   t1__dd C-s nsw.a dhit w.da  Ap v -aaesi -lllId%a                  .--epa a* Peesasn   5 It   l  t--  - 9(sn to)      h) -fll-nnea
sirs a. etWmliles s~q  tswh -t  a .suslm at als:s--a pseaait.a'11-015  in 1110151r'it..l 5eisitv___
sIp-s ~a .hssl~eh  ~    SiL Pdill,-twllw    .sn   ap'al-    us--n    a'tae 'e_eA _ _a.) sutidO T. 
in  nsIll nAWIaeS.q   nnIdii4tas. l tpsa  ;tim                  Wm n  hsasA                                               ',ptti    wt  io   eiee
si o-el tidig sb.ev. -  (aleth. 95n1sh   5)Jbadhe-i       t.ae        hs                                                     sv        ne    n'eely
JAIT~    A dMldi.&IN Id- Audgatd"   Iy             -ItA           1-bl 1* I-lewiwI.)3 jsheltal  (P55I5hS1 ehalstu -1aINN n.uw
p,.p   --d  ad   -1-n"-, dq-T-,               -19   T-a :43 -pI.-qwId:;!7M             'steP tes in 11551 '-utit-
tlllm~-dw -I         _    -elau  btp-deaas                        s    AnhuP   sat 53 eti-               "S.d  ntsdnwddP5142 . 'M--sa
sq. at esagana a   aaqtve Sq psplsp niasat isp..Ai  ss.tsd                    u-Alias--"d                                .  W n.    llAiStd,
l  511a-l"l' pnas tats' - Ps.. s1 *                            3ee -LW'us. -miss sSltn.itd(t                                               '515 =35  't' ll
slesiep155 -sbi Iqleas iettnmsn  ieusqn, p-nt                        hsu  -Tavl sa ~  nsletde  sq 51alapie   Ls.ntAi sT-t
P   -A -da      -pp-taStiesaN                                 -    'ill- ijh.l -  S-5                     p tyuhi. at h4as p-   '
.e_           Idsesed.nail Pa. ---   sassd- st el a- Mttamwid.                        st. lpaeur3 n-n en             N1 sluaJ- TejetdjAs.a p-IdI alt  S. pa.d-
se .R.th..P. blg.;wAt4 l5ql.e   - w1.setla  'tesss idad -ssId                 mite q.- atql  -nl.t513td    lLePISlC  a                     etfl A tINilSe
m"lla.heldM Laa . sd  p.e.ddljs ae   sa  -e I. -51'ksa. -dflas-p.                        "ealF  32 uaawida el                Amhst~lh       ll!leP     st3-s -tl in w-   P
L.' -sh.lqv. -  pst'Al ." wial nda-te  ,ivuel    ia t dadld 3vpeshn                      sesi squs          1 satts    uqlm Is ldldlhiaCsMt pt-fe l  ja etueq
'a  iyqa ista    All a-tiaattweele -t-              ,        t5                  at           -3ele     -gails -tastd. W  aIlddiee  e  'sNlddlwaidd. 3  5 - 3 ps
tv-s.d   a       i"IAlls be   1-atIsass aliase    i-ftaintuB s.t usvss                   SAl in   lelsn iddol 1nr vIelsedle  ad. sq  '-sy   gliv      StI -v' in
5s1-           -I..t      -D s     J   _     s  5.itba    a-St  -S- -eInep      n-,.A  aTe- '1-   eisa-qui    P- 'ta1uel,dn   -1 tess  .t 'it I-wa  eJ'-asa
its, p.3w 'espiuqa  ~pett tItan  laselletede   sb-tate.. Lasd                          tIC). tflht.=   asaas-s   us  -J.a   Lteseaeiat J. Id    5.19
altlasel  a natussasi -tva~  Asau -tain nb it  a latuesh                  111155  atfasdn.Ue  iu'u-'p-ued at nsJ-psia  a    a-sv
tyel in -las 'iClel sale - a3awj in  ets~~~~~~rI ~ ~ 'apeaA            Stiv       . atlt .dea    in 1S Aulll                         --saId-~WfU ~tv
-nsCdsv_d -sta..s 1_1  _psudI       isJ  h   llI pl_  313.     11r tIstlee
-ATdaq.-.-.  ftIjjddr Ill,AS P-  a.                          Imi  _eae  Idnlti  s-ta 't_ Sssvaal -sag  '3nvA.lsd   Otssa'i'
tatwI.s Il,~ ~plet "In 1 *q  le..  a,                                   eteit 4-saga snag ssvd sic 5t111n51 S- eanune  ale  'tInd
P- test  in 5Ms t-edldl-   W-J..tlas M1 sI aah  wtaluwt   il  Aai sdsIave. P: mnu~ leesa  -1.1 *1   1'  sal.ds  -il NAIstase  eta-i
asP.vs-ash  sese -manga -i -            -" A na  vo  -.ss-   p- i1-tam  aaaa                                                                       WIWZ.WuwWA  ""
;q.  P  j=$.e.dnd                                                        T_ =i5'1  IsI'   l           SepRelpa11e  5             1tsuume.  bat1,111
Otikw               lisl in  'Ibld  'mi i1 u 'ir l- -v - op-isItiM 2ijFr  ]t1 U2jjM
esaevpasa  e..t1 un J. anam  tvul - JOlijSlsI,                    ~ -5lewP lOt Pee 'Digat
'eetillnj tauin    .o.s   eutei 43 -1 Nlad'uteie  and1d                    usA al    its A. -SIte cdtt-ataaq   1""sq""n  we-
is-Ipia e dq tag  nilil    a    P'elus  LIasl Al-adle  elte   va                              telsae  A. eSlIl-a  lNasts, i.e'-W  IiIYji351Iauu
Pa ug1ea qtpvi 'Jw--eq '.1.18dd.gi-s    -p" ep    'a  W.-e
in jetdsui Psnttateadn p5.mo   "vsa   slb3idad in3. Iitd'  wi-i-                             'ess IVciaaise    aysha   u I -sat u- vlde  sad -   IAN - ?R V iii
7-atide   i.11J,asd  Poiade at. sql   .d pepat (lest.1 P.. 'eIsqaw"alW-W,.-3   Na  --34.   I0                                                     EW     II
'IAs ITTvlpa  MIshe                   'lieu  'telj.  sit .3 M5 NNIP5iR teliat  P.. tethaN  shaslted tOltJe5
in    In~t5h U-nt'-  lsal     -M.lv aesIpPsis =            .eta5t-maal 1I- Plu-mee P..   seat Pess. sab  nv..                                l    -
bltuscad a           AsseMeS  papltp ssmwi.tdns - ShlTiZrtUSiWI                                                                              Pares- P ~- Id  l)-
Ps dhafl at3 waMne atI.  W us    -uts   anj  s-twa atI imAIbAP .l tale-  Al-a  -  -t-sse nv's  Nlqe   -last,wuua  a  Asdsaa  N"""tw  el P.s%"a
sq  sag NNtte- 'easiths, 3M  au pa step Js Aiti sqelunATe at -  spedalp saalwpa1t4 agu      N -A3atee  Ae .11agwee dI3 slelw   's.leei1eu isq  as5 Cu!p   q d51T1
Mlg j. d's5  Sllm.a.. _1l  "ap Ildldll sivase  anvts  1san   let. 0.-a AAIe-s v J&) in  iltevo  %nqe         a a. lusidsle .1a -e  sq& dmid- nd-ai tlalv  at
'     "stse--ta  awasasal  nra evaaat.t.vsvqeI.   in  'Wesda* wivepl   epnus          . je  sp     sqgsue-p
at0 I-dag  - ' THeslaTINssa   sa - 'asp  sql  '019  at hla-ti-USe  aliesw"' lesiaslajt 4Sq pan  Idine in  smsgjuiltea  inp-1ptit  a. pol .41 a. se-aggiq atqnlA&
leoVa1Ut  Metn la astasuloa
nSw8d   ; O''-
-IL



ANNIX I
Population    .  155.8 million (mid-1983)                        - 21 -                                          r 35 *  of    FP  es
GNP per Capital  08S560 (1933 estlmate)
INDOWNDIA - ECOEN11C INDICATORU
Anount
(Million US at                               Annual prcwth rate (5) /b
current  riceu)                  Actu-al                                 Froluctma
Tndicator19 1981    lSsZ    LYOL   &704  _/a3  0340a                                             Iuo, 1987   l9B8 19E Y9
NATIONAL CCOUNTS
Crosa domoetlc product /c          78,344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    5.5    2.6    5.0    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                      20,651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.B    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                         29,896        12.3    8.5   -6.4    5.0    7.3    0.2    5.4    5.6    4.5    3.0    3.5
Servico                         27,797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Consumption                        62,731        12.4   15.8    3.0    2.0    5.6    1.3    3.4    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.1
Grons investm_nt /d                18,908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -5.0   -2.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of GNFS                    19,508        -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.8    1.5    2.9    6.3    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.2
Imports of GNFS                    22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2   -8.1   -5.0    0.5    1.3    2.5    2.6    3.0    3.4
Grows  national savings            12,273        33.2  -20.0  -15.9   22.2   16.7   -1.6   12.2    8.2    7.1    5.4    5.5
PRICES
'CMrTdeflator (1981 - 100)                          91    100    113    131    142    154    166    179    194    209    226
Exchange rate (Rp per US$)                        627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)
(at current urie..                            Averag  aDnUal increase (2) /b
1TMb   19-   19.5   1980   le.5  lVVtU          15011     -Ia   7    15-MU    58U-8)   195.)-lU
Gross domestic product           100    100    100    100    100    100            3.9       8.4        7.4        4.1        4.6
Agriculture                     54     47      32     25      26      25        2.7        4.1        3.3        4.1        3.7
Industry                        14     18      34     43      38     37         5.2       12.0        9.8       2.8        4.4
Services                        32     35      35     32      36     38         4.8        9.7        9.5        5.6       5.5
Conaumption                     91     89      79     71      76     74         4.1        8.4        9.2        5.6       4.0
Gross investment Id              8     14      20     21      20     22         4.8       18.3       12.2        4.5        5.4
Exports of CNFS                 13     13      23     31      25     25         3.6        9.2        2.9      -1.2        4.0
Imports of CNFS               -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -20            3.2       22.1       14.0        2.6       2.6
Gross national savings           8      9      17     26      20     22         6.1       23.1       14.2        0.5       7.7
As Z of GDP
1960               1970               1975                1900               1984
PUBLIC FINANCE 'e
=arrent revenue                                11.7               10.1                17.4               22.5                20.1
O_rrent expenditures                           14.0                8.4                 9.9               12.8                11.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                     -2.3               +1.6               +7.5                +9.7               +8.3
Capital expenditure                             n.a.               5.0                11.3               13.0                7.4
Foreign financing                               0.2                3.5                 3.7                3.3               -0.9
1960-70          1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GN4F groith rate (%)                           4.5               7.6              7.1             3.8              4.8
Annual CNP per capita groath rate (2)                 2.4               5.1              4.7             1.7              2.8
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)             2.2              11.2             11.0             1.3              4.7
ICOR                                                  2.2               2.2              3.3             5.2              4.4
Marginal savings rate                                 0.30              0.48             0.28            0.03             0.35
lmport elasticity                                     1.2               2.8              0.84            0.63             0.57
/a Estimates.
71 At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
7T9 At market prices.
7T Fixed investment; stock changes are included in consumption.
7ei  Central Government only, on an April-to-Nerch fiscal year basis.                               East Asia and Pacific Region
March 29, 1985



Population    a  155.8 million (mid-1983)                        - 29 -                                        ANN!eX I
CNP par Capita:  USS56D (1983 estimte)                                                                          rags s of 5 page.
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Mililonm USS at current priceu)
Actual                                 Projected
1980u    1981      1hiz     iIhNJ     use/a  1Y ~ 18               1f      1910
BALANCE OF PAlMENTS/b
1.  ixports                                     22,81185   22,994   18,672   19.816   19,983  21,115   23,043   26,331   36,460
(a)  Oil and LNC (gross)                    17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,082  14,481   15,483   17,784   23.801
(b)  Nonoil                                   5,588    4,170    3,928    5,367    5,901   6,634    7,560    8,547   12,659
2.  Imports (including net NFS)                -17,589  -22 ,570  -22,339  -19,583  -18,108 -19 ,070  -20, 752  -23,0 15  -31,705
(a)  Dil sector                             -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,839   -3,552  -3,823   -4,216   -4,776   -6,893
(b)  Nonoil imports                        -11,837  -14.561  -15,824  -14,174  -13,225 -13,807  -14,990  -16,535  -22,499
(c)  NFS (net)                              -1,702   -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,441  -1,440   -1,546   -1,704   -2,313
3.  Resource balance                              5,296      424   -3,667        233   -1,795   2,045    2,291    3,316    4,755
4.  Factor services                              -3,165   -3.210   -3,573   -4.669   -4,620  -5,003   -5,395   -6,049   -7,497.
(a)  Interest public debt                     -823      -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,499  -1,734   -1,958   -2,211   -2,747
(b)  Other (net)                            -2,342   -2,216   -2,428   -3,413   -3,121  -3,269   -3,437   -3,838   -4,740
5.  Capital grant.                                   76       67       105       95       100      110      120       125       150
6.  Balance on current account                    2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,341   -2,725  -2,848   -2,984   -2,608   -2,582
7.  Direct foreign investment                       140      142       311       193      250      250      275       300       375
8. Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                            2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    4,189   5,238    5,521    5,649    7,001
(b)  Amortization                             -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -2,036  -2.461   -2,534   -3,176   -5,050
(c)  Net disbursements                        1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,153   2,777    2,987    2,473    1,951
9.  Other capital (net)                         -1.488       -31       455    2,547       611      -29      175        56       502
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)             -2,736       988    3,279   -2.069       -289    -150      -453      -221     -246
11.  Net official reserves                       -7,342    6,354    3,074    5,144    5,433   5,583    6,036    6,257    6,902
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                         6.5      4.4       2.1      3.9       4.5     4.4       4.4       4.1      3.3
Memorandum Item
Net torelgn assets of the banking
systemtc                                     10,787   10,622    6,392    8,916    9,205   9,355    9,809   10,029   10,674
Total reserves in months of nonotil
imports + NFS                                    9.6      7.4       4.4      6.8       7.5     7.4       7.1       6.6      5.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEDT/d
Gross Disbursements                              2,551    2,673    4,192    4965
Moncesslonal Loans                              t-siw       7fl    -w       -ta
BHlateral                                     fl        m         5yT      31T
IDA                                            42        69        78       60
Other
Nonconcessional Loans                            1 892    1,880    3 503    4,357
Bilateral                 1          7U 4H                 8
IBR                                             331      314       505      489
Other multilateral                                52       85       126      160
Private-source                                 1.421    1.310    2,356    3.219
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed /e            14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686
Official-source                -            Y sui   TifTIT   T203
Private-source                              5,465    5,812    7,403    9,649
Undisbureed debt                              9.481   11,387   12,870   12,975
Debt Service
Total service payments                        1.759    2.047    2,247    2.551
Interest                                      823       994    1,145    1.256
Payments as 2 of exports/f                       7.7      8.9      12.0     12.9
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (2)             8.1      8.7       9.2       0.8
tffficials_ ource                                5.4      7.8      8.8       8.7
Private-source                                  12.4      9.4      9.5       8.8
Average Maturity of NEw Loans (Years)             18.8     15.5      15.2      15.1
O   ia_- ource                              24.4      20.5     20.6      22.3
Private-source                                   9.8     11.1      11.1     10.3
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1983
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                               40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                              70
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                             7.0
/a  Estimates.
7W  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7F  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
77  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7e7  At end of period.                                                                            East Asia and Pacific Region
7r  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                  March 29, 1985



ANNEX II
-30 -                     Pagel  of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDOWESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                         Amount (USS million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and forty-one Credits fully
disbursed                                               1,584.59   642.71         -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                            140.00      -         68.02
1604    L978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II           65.00      -         29.75
869    1979   Polytechnic                                    -      49.00       11.29
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                           77.00      -         23.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                      54.00      -         11.26
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                 42.00      -          8.29
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                               123.20      -         19.59
919    1979   Transmigration II                              -      67.00        0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                            90.00      -         86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                175.00      -         41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                          35.50      -          9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                   -      12.00        7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III          99.00      -         34.79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                 -      45.00       27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                           -      37.6        15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II              -      42.00       24.95
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                       116.00      -         53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV           42.00      -         29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research               35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                 -      30.00        5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                 253.00      -         86.71
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development              46.00      -         33.06
1904    1981   University Development                       45.00      -         37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                 250.00      -         21.68
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                            22.00      -         13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                     43.00      -         24.13
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                     Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     rDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            161.00      -        114.44
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development          106.00      -          8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00      -         75.70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00      -         84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                  15.00      -         10.80
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00       -        85.87
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                       85.00      -         63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                       80.00      -         76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbook                               25.00      -         24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                          37.00      -         21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java             70.00      -         48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.00      -         41.71
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI            68.10      -         59.49
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00      -         19.69
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering        5.50      -          4.21
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                300.00      -        256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          154.60      -        152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00      -         25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40      -         21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                           101.00      -         66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00      -         28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60      -         27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                208.90      -        158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                             63.50      -         61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.40      -        107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                             279.00      -        241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                   63.30      -         62.84
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar          79.20      -         53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                   43.00      -         41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.             89.00      -         85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                           240.00      -        235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.65      -         39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development           204.70      -        204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                      65.00      -         64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                             210.00      -        209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                              50.00      -         50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00       -        77.81
/a Not yet effective.



-32-                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (USs million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation /a        11.30       -        11.30
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II la         131.00       -       131.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                   -395.81   -17.69
Total now outstanding                     6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party         28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                         3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cemenc             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism             9.8       1.6       11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinang           Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9        -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.      -        0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                -       1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4       -         0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                  Textiles            0.9        -         0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia               Construction
Material         48.0       5.0      53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         5.0       0.3        5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             25.0        -        25.0
Total gross commitments                         143.6      L9.6     163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             107.6       7.4     115.0
Total held by IFC                                36.0      12.2      48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  9.5                    9.5



- 34 -                           ANNEX rII
INDONESIA
KEDUNC OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM PROJECT
SuppLementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare the project              :    3 years
Agency which proposed the project              :    DGWRD
First Bank mission to consider project         :   November 1982
Departure of appraisal mission                 :   May 1984
Completion of negotiations                     :   April 1985
Planned date of effectiveness                  :    September 1985
Section It: Special Bank implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The GOI wouLd ensure that:
(a) all staff for the Dam Project Office will be in place by September
30, 1985 and for the Irrigation Project Office by January 31, 1986
(para. 44);
(b)  comments of the panel of dam experzs regarding safety and economy
would be sought prior to and during construction and shall be taken
into account, and a plan for dam inspection arrangements will be
submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1989, and carried out
thereafter as acceptable to the Bank (para. 45);
(c) the reorganization of the Provincial Irrigation Service in Central
Java will be carried out by April 1, 1989 (para. 54); and
Cd) GOI will reclassify for land tax purposes all land benefitting from
project works, and reassess and collect land taxes from all
beneficiaries of project works, in accordance with an implementation
schedule agreed with the Bank. GOI will also furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1988, a plan to assign a portion of land tax revenues
thus collected to O&M of the project works following construction
(para. 59).



g  ^   .   . .        /1          tet_                          -- -C             /       11.045                                                                   11l5O                           - 
P < . a1^    as   s I,A.   r               ii ..  PACgraaald -CA                                                        
~             f7''-;   (-.i.i ........ >- -. ....                     w_.KEDUNG  OMBO  MULTIPURPOSE DAM  PROJECT
'K,' 'q,'l, a,,, ,,    a 1                                                               t>8^i, .................. ',, " t                                                                                                   \LAYOUT OF IRRIGATION AREAS UNDER THE PROJECT ''
OCEAN                                            '-D_ i                                     ,                                              jiversion Weirs
___________________________________________________________________                                           M~~Aain Canals
110030-                                        \                                                      ~        ~ ~~ Secondary Canals
New  Irrigation
0            5            10           15      KILOMETERS       /
_________________________________________  - --_,;    loporo                         L........  Existing Irrigation
0                     5                    10 MILES          \                                                                        Proposed Dams/Rservoirs
UAAAnM"  Levees Under Irrigation XIV
Drains
-4\  Flood Gates
Ic    Diversion Weirs
Rivers 
-    v      w                                            kMain Roods
Pecongoan                                       I
-.--+  Railways
J A   V  A     S E A                                                                                                              International Boujndaries
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~~C -J 'AI
hA NG              A.    J
EMARAG                  .I
0LE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
$00                                                             'A,NGMAI  CNA
SENDUNGO SEDA'15
l  ,@1  (  X                 Vc'45             t       Ab    s         .                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  E
GLAPAN    WE12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d d1w bE~    '5
D   SITE ~~~            ~                        8?
Ka ungjati~~~~~~~                                      ~
I APAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r .m



IBRD 18530
110*45'
JV AS E A
"                          ~~~~~~~~I N D O N E S I A
WEDUNG                                            KEDUNG OMBO
64,'                                                                        MULTIPURPOSE DAM PROJECT
- 6 45'   .  /               WATER USER ASSOCIATION
UPPER AND LOWER SEDADI
W4
PELAYARAN                                                     -                                           oKudus
<44  >   '   \ E      s                       '-'tE              - ;. .         rIo
CRO4~(4eW               N        N<JI~             -        PUMP PTATION
F'
CAS        ~ D
Demak ao
WATER USER ASSOCIATIONS                                         ' 
Very Active                                                          TUNTANG-
Moderately Active                                   /         /      SR N                       IAUGSRCLn
CROPPING  PATTERN                                                             C
S38
AA   Podi-Padi-Padi                                                                 -   -
A    Podi-Padi-Palowijo i
B    Podi-Padi-Polowijoia
C    Padi-Podi-Polowiia
D    Podi-Podi-Palciwiia or
Padi-Palowiio-Polawiia                                                                                                     700O
E   Padi-Polowijo-Polowijo                                                        I           -
F   Padi-Polowijo-Polowijo or
Podi-Polowiji-Fallow
---  Main Canals
Other Irrigation Canals                                                                        '
MAojor Rivers
Rivers/Major Drains
-- -  :ntemationol Boundaries
KILOMETERS  0                ';              S02
MILES  O                            5
U  A L A V S t A                                                                                                    SEDADI WEIR
3                                        -.-_        -                                               dW J
~~~~~~&t *. o-             _z 1tf de tw WON       a_ 1b    w 
,,, .                                          nin-rnw  twv _edM  mwe    N                                 19Bd
-~                                               - MUhdin Mi. MUMU dd -Y     e  - d
NOVEMBER 199*



IBRD 18531
INDONESIA                                  Mr     A LA  f       & !
KEDUNG OMBO
MULTIPURPOSE DAM PROJECT                                    ;-
PRESENT AND  FUTURE                                                                                 ~A- 
ADMINISTRATIVE  BOUNDARIES                                     ji                
Exisling Wiloyah Boundaries                         P.Oi.1 Alii
Proposed Wiloych Boundaries                _
--- Seksi Boundaries
.... Kabupaten Boundaries
New Irrigation Wilcyah                  *   , ,'
Irrigation under the Project
-. -  International Boundaries     Ois"pa    ..1                 *.    Omba            /
1.~~~ ~ ~ ~ .EERN  1. BOAR  1  BOD9
'<'''I.'D'':   o'?,Wa   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lowA
K.n SERANG  AT SERN
7.\ JEPAR,A 51 SERANG A2
8. PAT1  6  KUDUS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
_~ ~~9  REBN                     7\' JEPARA50g-'                     13 @-
l 2
IRRGAION          IRRIGATION  SECTION  OFFICES  
REGIONS ~  ~     ~    ~        EBAGKIOETR 
PRESENT              FUTURE                                                25
1. SEMERANG   1  BODARI               1  BODARI
12. RAWAPENING        2  RKAPENING
3. TUNTANG           3  TUNTANG
4. SERANG ATAS
S. SERANG BAWAH
2. PATI         6. KUDUS              4    TERANG ATAS
7. JBPARA            5  SERANG BAWAH
8. PATI              6  KUDUS
9. REMBANG           7  JEPARA
10. BLORA             8  PATI
9  REMBANG                     KIlLOMETERS 0         25         50
1 n  BLORA                           MLS02
3. SURAKARTA  11. WONOGIRI           11  WONOGIRIMLS                                              2
12. KLATEN           12  KLATEN
13. KARANG ANTAR   13  KARANG ANTAR
14. BOTOLALI         14  BOTOLALI           B ^wlwt""Ei                          " 
I1S. BRAGEN          1S  BRAGEN                  >     h-|t_TwAh*0lSw-ss
NOVEMBER 1984



MUPU VOLCANO
~~~~~~-  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAVA SEA
J A  V  A                                                        *S E  A  'f
Pt REDUN           AREA                 NO  - ,   ,     <          
/0,S6 /0 h  a                     ;
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0                                                                                              N E S I A
TUNTANG-SINAN                                                                 KEDUNG  OMBO
,.030 ha <   PN N TMULTIPURPOSE DAM PROJECT
\  _   \  _ New  Iniotgion Areis
Irrigated Land
Now Irrigation Canals
\IN:    Caol Exponsion
rUPPE SENANG                                                                         Irrigation Canals
"_u"z"rr/lw"^t \ ~~~~~~~~~AREA , 
.w..Dvw$rIv.                                                                    \                                                                            - -   o  ha  - - Drains Under Irrigation XIV
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             I A i A~~~~~~~~~~~~  Levees  U nves eU r Id r rIgr tionon XX V
77   ,          , , O,A"                                                                                                                   New  Barroges or Wi
U AI kAY  S I Ae
~~~~ -I...-,                                                                                                     * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irrigotion Pumiping Plant To Be Removed
SEDADI VVEI                                      ~~~~~~~~A Irrigation Intake
z                                                                                                                                                                   -     Project Boundary
*       Projec 'Area
w                   ib      Prejesl Ar e                            ;          |                        /     g     /                                            ---  Inlerndionol  Baurl u;
m                                    "t~~~~~                                                   ~~~ ~~~~rmw  ^SCHEMATIC DLAWING_
LeO                        .                                                        71  ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Kedung Ombo Dam silo                                                                 _ 1t



*;%  \;,.7\                m n - '              7                                              1  10s'        /   l45'                                               111000                         ' 
,\x\U >     ,. WM ,A tt *, !-A ^,   *',       '   {,      iACSIC rS "' .' /                                                             I N D O N E S I  IA
(4>u,<  tr*Ib-Jn  -.~ -Q-' ,&<-             -to, n sKEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM  PROJECT
~4 L                                            , ,)                                                    FLOOD PRONE AND SWAMP AREAS                                             630
,,       Area                                                                                   r   -   NEW IRRIGATION AREAS OF THE PROJECT
rN<lrAr "''' '~ t u.9rt_r 5.t , _ ';<*r ' >. ^ h X  BI t ..'.. .                                     EXISTING IRRIGATION AREAS OF THE FROJECT
_~jj -_  OTHER IRRIGATION AREA OUTSIDE OF 1HE PROJECT
PERMANENT SWAMPS
110 30-                                                                                     >*    FLOOD PRONE AREAS
o      O                . 5  10       15     KILOMETERS  . ..           .         .                              NEW MAIN CANALS
.: ". ... .                                      -     f  , . <:-   g Icprsn __ MAIN CANALS
,                   S                   10 MILES        )-                                                      SECONDARY CANALS
' EXISTING DRAINS IN SATISFACTORY CONDITION
EXISTING DRAINS TO BE REHABILITATED (IRRIGATION XM
NEW DRAINS TO BE CONSTRUCTED IRRIGATION XriV
RIVERS
.                                 /Ftl   we,b,9Wrt;t           ,,<:                    #   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW VWEIRS
,       .                      iJ7-         ,       ;4:     q eO                       #    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WEIRS 
.  ._N.2 PROPOSED DAMS/RESERVOIRS
4/i   .   iSngarWn          *     PUMPING STATION TO BE REMOVED
E3    POWER STATIONS
J A V A  S E A                                                                                               MAIN OAD
6045'
1::: '.J
7000.~~~~~~i     'ibhhl     



*,                                                             VW
4PUCANq_GACING
WEIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
aWAE/IW                                       EIRR/                   X      \          J
WEIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Power slotion  _D>t'   .......  /
dPower slaotrn                                                                                                     TM  m h   .eo nw_w or
JELOKKEDUNGat U                                                                          O                       C          so
Adl  kEDUNG OMBO             No~Euft   WFu
SW ft hanwm Ovm
- Imc aw No. an ft
0  per                              -                                                                 cAmwakm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~deb1w~ 
wn                                                                                                                          Me' 
/TO Sura&arta    111ew



.NTHAILAND                l^                                                           Ij
nS.IAI                            1 ".r                                                                                                            I   f    
"'              !               i.                8                      '         '-   ,,      " . ' :}            BRUNEI   +BRUNEI
'  MALAYSI A
a :'-               @                  *Kud;Lunve.0|/ \ .                                                                         /              .
-.o  i   Wo%.    '- \  i;                    MALAYSIA
A5AV.' a.  2v Ae/                                 ' SINGAPORE
gm"d_$ g/                           W A._|1  K1  d9J    A     rA 
'                                              -     I A               r A
Pad\z                  #                                                      ,JJ       Ah eils  .w~-t         _fse
5~hs         A175W                                               Ponhlnd. 
SWaP0v a                                                                     * J0 P ,,
s-i                      -1 CF -                             &m
/ ~   ~     ~     _ w ., //    ;-7 [                              .A                 /    f>M.    r 
/                                        /he AAnS Sal A.
/4, ~    ~       ~      ~      r /, AJ4e(  /_                             -I "ao          SUd 
kw-                                        Aw*A -   A
lCP ~ ~ ~ e,f&~            la* he, q-spke   .pq   JA
T*ngnmc....g  %     Ao      I.UO,,  he
w-w K- ~      IChhnA.5.ap-&                     5 ..e  &h.V&*eqbv 1DA
~~,m~~*h Subwquff 7          moo m he.          K.*Em ./ 8   Qbp,eJrl.ct4AM-Pr
CMit &a.-P APect                                       Sowkg.  4.5.p Mw Dp FOm Av.euA.,
up-  Lmw .bv~ Jwasp.e  ~                                      mf.AiM 2 b
COr StOY'Aim      ~       I,.A~                                           keAm              O&bWUMi     .
Oheohet hedy A-e 53JW A./s4y0~Iq  S.mf..h,v.
tow 0e..,e.& 5....  hin*- 2w to
Depeq SOWd A-e       iee.we.'                           .
Iwo                                                                                    Im*~~~~~~~~~~23h     tdWVdOM.-



IBRD 18568 R
.-,0 .                                                         INDONESIA
PHILIPPINES                                      KEDUNG OMBO MULTIPURPOSE DAM PROJECT
=. \  o                         _     PROJECT AREA
/                                                                      - -   SECOND PROVINCIAL IRRIGATION OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*L                                                    lIRRIGATION PROJECTS I-=and SWAMP RECLAMATION PROJECTI
RIVERS
.-  -   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-. -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
? /~
*                        ,, _ SubPrqt   ,' j KILOMETERS                        1 0   2?0   300  4W0   EU   GM   700
.C','"         t      .                          N Z , #-~ ALMAHERA   MILES                   .
I  ~   ~     0        100      20       3         w        50g
*-~~~~A -Sc7i;Mu                                                                               0 --  ow_w
A  \R/A N    JA YA                                                                  I
Ft ORES      .          .        -                                                                                           M       |
--;/' ~         0.'*               -'-* *                                                                                                      e
*      oMIbw.                            TIM 0 R r1gRnaD hw s bow,u                            bBY The V,b VI jiaff md&m* f Nw Siwanbr m of
Kuuuueug                                            If* rmdw  d 7. a.oCL,* to, VW .me., mm of To Ilbid    uMW ha  U _
o                                               Fnow- GC&YDwho T?w dwnI*in. uad mu to. borm    sdhwu an sumw do nd
u.vA*. -' Wme pt of The Abid Bw*angs mud ul shgumuuAl ~eco Carospadwu eVs*umutf
on Mu. SaQl xsWm or owu Iseisty or ny w%ftm,u,d aorcwf&g of suc baaosaa.
12G                             12,0                             1300                             1350                             140P
JANUAR'Y 1985






