Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23206-SL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.1 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR AN
HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
FEBRUARY 21, 2002
Human Development II
Country Department 10
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 21, 2002)
Currency Unit = Leone
Le 1786 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = Le.00056
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS           Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARV            Antiretroviral (Drugs)
ART            Antiritrovial Therapy
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CDT            Capacity Development Team
CSO            Central Statistics Office
CSW            Commercial Sex Worker
CBO            Community-Based Organization
FPMA           Financial/Procurement Management Agent
HIV            Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA            International Development Association
IEC/BCC        Information, Education and Communication/Behavioral Change Conmmunications
IMA            Intervention Management Agent
MAP ll         Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Afiica Region 11
MODEP          Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
MOHS           Ministry of Health and Sanitation
MTCT           Mother-To-Child-Transmission
NAC            National HIV/AIDS Council
NACP           National HIV/AIDS Control Program
NaCSA          National Commission for Social Action
NAS            National HIV/AIDS Sectetariat
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PLWHA          People Living with HIVIAIDS
SHARP          Sierra Leone HIVIAIDS Response Project
STI            Sexually Transmitted Infections
TB             Tuberculosis
TSS            Transitional Support Strategy
UNA)DS         Joint United Nations Programme on HI V/AIDS
UNAMSIL        United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone
VCT            Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO            World Health Organization
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:    Alexandre Abrantes
.Task Team LeaderJTask Manager:    Richard Seifman



SIERRA LEONE
HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      17
3. Benefits and target population                                                     17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         19
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       21
E. Sunmmary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          21
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          22
4. Institutional                                                                      23
5. Environmental                                                                      24
6. Social                                                                             24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   26
2. Critical risks                                                                   26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   27
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          27
2. Other                                                                            28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       49
Annex 4: Economic Summary                                                              50
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          74
Annex I 1: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                   76
Annex 12: Supervision Plan FY03                                                        79
Annex 13: Refugee, Returnee, IDP and Host Community Activities                         81
MAP(S)
IBRD 31690



SIERRA LEONE
HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: February 21, 2002                          Team Leader: Richard M. Seifman
Country Director: Peter C. Harrold               Sector Manager: Alexandre V. Abrantes
Project ID: P073883                              Sector(s): HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ]Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 15.0
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      0.30           0.00          0.30
IDA                                                          15.00           0.00         15.00
Total:                                                       15.30           0.00         15.30
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
Responsible agency: GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
Address: 7th Floor, Youyi Building, Brookfields, Freetown
Contact Person: Dr. Kadi Sesay, Minister of Development and Economic Planning
Tel: 232 (22) 225236          Fax: 240312            Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005      2006
Annual    0.56        5.76      4.48       3.68      0.52
Cumulative    0.56       6.32      10.80      14.48     15.00
Project implementation period: July 2002 - June 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD Fi- R.. M8. 210



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.1. The project will assist the Government of Sierra Leone organize a response to the growing Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) which causes the Acquired Immune Deficiency Synd ome (AIDS), in short
HIV/AIDS. It is a project within the context of the $500.0 million (SDR 393.3 million equivalent)
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP II) discussed at Board on February 7,
2002 (document no. IDA/R2002-4). In accordance with the main goal of the MAP, the development
objectives of this four-year project in Sierra Leone are to (a) contribute to reducing HIV/AIDS prevalence
and (b) mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected or affected by HIV/AIDS. It will do so
through a multi-sector approach, facilitating activities undertaken in various sectors by public and private
organizations, and by communities in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Project-supported activities will
complement government, donor, and private sector initiatives. These activities will vary by sector and the
specific partner, but will be consistent with the national policy against HIV/AIDS, and premised on the
development and expansion of local responses to the epidemic.
1.2. In collaboration with other members of the Intemational Partnership Against AIDS in Africa (IPAA),
the project will help step up and mainstream the national response against HIV/AIDS, and an array of
related infections, including sexually transmitted infections (STIs), Tuberculosis (TB), and other
opportunistic infections. The Government of Sierra Leone (MODEP), UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS and
regional officials of UNAIDS worked closely in the development of this effort and see it as an integral part
of the common effort. Thus the project will address HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and support, as well as
impact mitigation at the national and sub-national levels. Emphasis will be on prevention among youth,
women of child-bearing age, orphans and other vulnerable children, and groups that are particularly
vulnerable to HIV/AIDS, including sex workers, the military and ex-combatants, internally displaced
people, and refugees.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.1. Key performance indicators will enable the measurement of project activities' performances, generally
by the end of year 2006.
Output Indicators
1. By the end of the Project at least 12 HIV/AIDS sentinel populations are regularly
surveyed both with regard to behavioral and biological aspects;
2. By the end of the Project 100% of all functioning referral and regional hospitals,
80% of all functioning district hospitals, and 30% of all functioning health centers
provide: a) opportunistic infection treatment and care, b) improved safety injection
programs, and c) effective medical waste management programs;
3. By the end of the Project at least I site will be operating in every District,
providing HIV/AIDS infected pregnant women and newboms provided with
mother-to-child-transmission intervention services;
4. By the end of the Project at least 20 organizations are providing counseling, care,
and support services to PLWHA families as well as orphans and vulnerable children;
5. By the end of the Project at least 500 line ministry and NGO staff have been
trained and are active peer educators.
Process Indicators
-2-



6. By the end of 2004 the HIV/AIDS national policy is being systematically
implemented by the National HIV/AIDS Council and Secretariat, reviewed on an
annual basis, consistent with the strategic planning process;
7. By the end of the Project at least 75% of all participating line ministries have
incorporated HIV/AIDS prevention activities in their annual work plans and budgets,
and have core teams in place;
8. By the end of the Project at least 50 large scale and 900 small scale community and
civil society initiatives activities are being executed.
Outcome Indicators
9. By the end of the Project, 70% of youth, women, commercial sex workers,
niformed services, and ex-combatants can cite at least two major modes of
HIV/AIDS transmission and at least two methods of protection;
10. By the end of the Project 30% of youth use condoms at sexual debut, 35% of
adults use condoms in their last casual sex act, and 50% of adults use condoms in
heir last commercial sex act.
2.2. Tracking of the epidemiology of HIV/AIDS will be done by the Ministry of Health and Sanitation
(MOHS) and other partners, and will conceivably encompass antenatal prevalence surveys, HIV/AIDS
mortality data, and STI/TB cases. This will be done as part of a new National Health Action Plan which
includes improving the health sector information and annual surveys. SHARP interventions and the imnpact
of these interventions will be monitored through a separate operational monitoring system.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 21332-SL Date of latest CAS discussion: December 14, 2002
1.1. The Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (Report No. 21332-SL, November 17, 2000), recognizes
the need to address HIV/AIDS in Sierra Leone's development strategy. The report states that, building on
HIV/AIDS prevention activities previously incorporated into several projects, it is the Bank's intention to
begin work with the Government on a follow-up operation under the HIV/AIDS regional umbrella Credit.
The new TSS, which goes to the Board March 2002, more fully takes into account the issue of HIV/AIDS
and its economic impact. Further, a review of the World Bank portfolio of projects and existing or possible
HIV/AIDS activities in the various sectors was undertaken in CY2000. Many of the recommendations
contained therein are being incorporated into sectoral plans. In addition, the GOSL and the Bank published
in June 2001 the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP), discussed at the Board on September
25, 2001 (document IDA/SecM2001-0483) which lists combating HIV/AIDS as one of the key areas for
reducing poverty. The PRSP under development will further look into how HIV/AIDS affects poverty in
Sierra Leone, and how to address this issue.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1. The Human Development Report 2001, "Making New Technologies Work for Human Development",
ranks Sierra Leone last, reporting statistics well below the average for the least developed countries. For
instance, life expectancy at birth is reported at 38.4 years and GDP per capita (purchasing power parity) at
$448, versus 48.8 years and $1,640 for Sub-Saharan Africa. Existing information from the Ministry of
Health and Sanitation (MOHS), district health administrative units, NGOs and UN agencies shows that
during the last ten years the health status of the population of Sierra Leone has deteriorated dramatically.
- 3 -



The main causes of ill health in Sierra Leone remain diseases such as malaria, diarrhea, communicable
diseases and respiratory infections as well as malnutrition. There has also been a resurgence of epidemics,
primarily cholera and other water-bome diseases. Many other diseases such as onchocerciasis,
tuberculosis, and leprosy which are also showing increasing trends, are affecting the health of Sierra
Leoneans, and are spreading to neighboring countries.
2.2. Severe dislocations caused by a decade of war and civil strife, which were intensified by the 1997
military coup and the 1999 rebel invasion of Freetown, destroyed most of the health and other social sector
support systems. Infant and matemal mortality rates are extremely high (the latter is assumed to be among
the highest in the world) and shortages of drugs, health and other personnel are widespread. The need to
repair and/or replace basic facilities and services competed with efforts to mitigate outbreaks of
communicable diseases. The impact of all these events and factors rendered, and continue to render, untold
harm in terms of psycho-social trauma throughout the society but especially for violated women and young
girls, amputees, refugees, and intemally displaced persons.
2.3. Given these circumstances and the absence of reliable statistics, the current HIV/AIDS situation in
Sierra Leone cannot be assessed with certainty. What is known is that in 1997 UNAIDS estimated the HIV
prevalence among Sierra Leonean adults (aged 15-49) to be 3.2%. For the same year, however, HIV tests
among women receiving antenatal care at centers in the Western Area showed a HIV prevalence of 7%
(antenatal care data are considered an acceptable proxy for the total population), which suggests the
epidemic is now more diffused in the general population, and, with the increasing integration of
ex-combatants who have not had much exposure to HIV/AIDS education or avoidance behavior, the trend
is likely to be on the rise. A more recent survey by the National AIDS Control Programme of potential
blood donors in accessible areas put the rate at about 6%. (Since the detection of the first case in 1987,
1,242 persons were tested HIV positive, 449 developed AIDS, and 325 are reported to have died, but these
figures probably significantly underreport the true magnitude of the epidemic). Other sub-groups
particularly vulnerable (e.g., commercial sex workers, uniformed services personnel, ex-combatants, truck
drivers) might be infected at much higher levels. Data suggest an infection rate of at least 36% among sex
workers. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC), in conjunction with the MOHS and the Central
Statistics Office (CSO), will be completing a national household prevalence survey in early 2002 which
will provide extensive data on the type (HIVI or HIV2), extent, and geographic concentrations of the
epidemic. This survey will establish the baseline for this project. The major factors that have contributed to
rapidly increasing rates in other African countries are present and are intensified by the civil strife,
dislocations, poverty, and high incidence of violence against women. Whatever the actual rate, it is widely
accepted the rate is on the increase, and that the critical threshold of 5% when the infection moves from
groups at risk into the general population and therefore becomes generalized, is either past or near at hand.
This situation is cause of concem and calls for a multi-sectoral response along with the full recognition of
HIV/AIDS as a developmental problem.
Government's Initial Response to HIV/AIDS
2.4. In 1986 a National AIDS Committee was established which was folded into the National AIDS
Control Programme (NACP) in 1987 in response to WHO's request for member states to establish
prevention and control programs. A National AIDS Coordinating Committee was set up in 1988. NACP is
located at the Connaught Hospital (in Freetown) and reports to the Director of Medical Services in the
Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS). Through most of 2000 the Govemment's response to the
unfolding HIV/AIDS situation was to focus primarily on its medical and health aspects, under the
leadership of the NACP, which conducted several ad hoc workshops.
- 4 -



2.5. However, there was a lack of consistent commitment at highest levels, the absence of strong advocates
for championing the cause, and the lack of full appreciation of the developmental implications of the
epidemic. This attitude changed in 2001. Over the past year there has been heightened awareness and
activity, including special events (World AIDS Day), attendance at regional leadership conferences such as
those in Addis Ababa and Abuja. A document entitled "Proposed National Policy on HIV/AIDS and
STD-related Issues" was circulated in 2001 and served as a useful platform for more intensive debate. A
multi-sector, multi-partner HIV/AIDS retreat was held in April 2001 and it produced a "Preliminary
HIV/AIDS Situation Analysis" and a proposed framework for the formulation of an HIV/AIDS National
Policy. (These efforts were encouraged by the Bank's existing health project, which has functioned
effectively during the recent difficult periods. This project has a good implementation record and its staff
has been cooperating fully with the new HIV/AIDS efforts.) Subsequently, a Cabinet Sub-Committee on
HIV/AIDS was formed, and it has produced a draft national HIV/AIDS Policy in collaboration with the
UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS. A number of high government officials are publicly voicing concem and
are seized with the problem as well as the dangers stemming from an HIV/AIDS epidemic. They recognize
the risks to Sierra Leone's future development if a major and well-coordinated effort is not launched
quickly to stem its spread. This more vigorous, vocal support by Government and the high degree of
cooperation provided augur well for an effective program.
2.6. In addition to the health sector, other sectors are increasingly engaged in the HIV/AIDS campaign
such as education, social welfare, gender and children's affairs, transport, defense, agriculture, rural
development, and development and economic planning. In sum, the Government as a whole is now more
conscious of the need to take action to curtail the spread of the virus before it reaches an explosive
dimension, as has occurred in a number of SSA countries. Sierra Leone is coming to terms with the fact
that as political stability retums and an all out development effort is undertaken, failure to contain this
"hidden enemy" will have devastating consequences and undennine other accomplishments.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1. The basic issue is how to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in a multi-sector manner in a country
emerging from conflict. The Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region (MAP II) provides
the framework to do so and the concept for the SHARP. Sierra Leone is eligible for MAP II funding in that
it satisfies the MAP eligibility criteria, namely:
(a) Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIVIAIDS. Sierra Leone has the basic
ingredients of a strategic approach on which to build, including a preliminary situation analysis, and a
national HIV/AIDS policy formulated by a Cabinet Sub-Committee with assistance from other
stakeholders and the UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS, and adopted by the Cabinet, along with the creation
of the National HIV/AIDS Council and National HIV/AIDS Secretariat. These will be strengthened
through an ongoing strategic planning process organized by UNAIDS which will culminate in a new
strategy and plan of action for implementation of the national policy;
(b) A high level HIV/AIDS coordinating body. Sierra Leone has established the National HIV/AIDS
Council chaired by the President and comprised of public sector and non-public sector representatives in
roughly equal parts, including those who speak for people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHAs). This Council
will have overall responsibility for the project supported by a Secretariat;
(c) Government agreement to use exceptional implementation arrangements. Government is prepared to
accelerate project implementation by channeling funds to communities, civil society and the private sector.
Further, Government has agreed to contract out financial and procurement management, as well as
- 5-



community and civil society initiatives management and capacity development tasks. Furthermore, it will
contract out aspects of monitoring and evaluation; and
(d) Government agreement to use andfund multiple implementation agencies. Government has agreed
within the public sector to progressively expand HIV/AIDS activities to cover a broad range of Ministries,
Districts, and local entities, as well as to fund activities undertaken by communities, community-based
organizations, non-governmental organizations, trade and worker associations, and the private sector. The
Government is participating in discussions with neighboring countries and other agencies as to how to
address sub-regional refugees and HIV/AIDS; as to those refugees from Liberia or Guinea, or displaced
persons within the territory of Sierra Leone, it intends to include refugees, returnees, internally displaced
persons, and host communities as beneficiaries in community and civil society initiatives.
3.2. HIV/AIDS is a complex, multifaceted, development problem requiring both short-term containment
actions and long term, sustained, and broad-based responses, including a range of activities involving
virtually all levels and sectors of government and society. Rapid spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic would
have damaging consequences for sectors such as education, social welfare, gender and children's affairs,
transportation, defense, agriculture and rural development, and the mining sector, all of which are key for
the future development of Sierra Leone. At the same time, each of these sectors could, in turn, provide
significant contributions to the overall fight against HIV/AIDS. Furthermore, experience suggests that there
are certain aspects of the development problem which require special attention:
*   Integrating HIV/AIDS into reproductive health programs, especially those geared toward the youth;
* Intensifying information dissemination necessary to change behavior to avoid HIV/AIDS;
* Fully integrating gender into HIV/AIDS strategies and plans;
*   Developing well coordinated programs to protect orphans and other vulnerable children;
*   Integrating HIV/AIDS into the education system both as a curriculum issue and a sector planning
concern;
*   Bringing the private sector into the fight against HIV/AIDS; and
* Assuring that uniformed services as well as refugees, returnees, internally displaced persons, and
ex-combatants are included in the HIV/AIDS containment effort.
3.3. SHARP will begin with core activities that are ready for implementation. Support to capacity building
will help galvanize the fight against HIV/AIDS and STIs, as well as organize prevention and care activities
in sectors and communities not yet engaged. Activities within the various sectors will be geared to reaching
staff involved in these sectors and their dependents. Civil servants in sectors such as youth, education, and
sports, social welfare, gender and children's affairs, defense, transport, development and economic
planning, agriculture, the National Commission for Social Action (formerly the Reconstruction,
Resettlement and Rehabilitation (NCRRR) will be trained in HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities. At a
future point these trained personnel will become HIV/AIDS and STIs prevention agents for the people they
interact with, referring their constituencies to expanded HIV/AIDS and STIs care services that will be
available from the health sector, whether public, private, or provided by health-related NGOs (the health
sector will be given additional resources under SHARP to deal with referrals). This will not occur
overnight but rather, in a phased manner as personnel become knowledgeable about HIV/AIDS, as areas
heretofore inaccessible become more functional and operational, and as resources become available to these
ministries to perform services. Below are brief descriptions of some of the key sectors which will be
involved:
3.4. Education reaches future generations in their most formative period, as well as their parents, and
teachers, who are often seen as behavioral models for young people in- or out- of school. As such, there is a
- 6 -



natural linkage between this sector and the fight against HIV/AIDS through Family Life Education (FLE)
and Life Skills type curricula. Assuring active participation from the Ministry of Youth, Education, and
Sports (MYES) in the development of curricula for teacher training programs, in communicating relevant
messages leading to behavioral change. In this regard, there has been close coordination between SHARP
project preparation and the formulation of a new IDA education sector rehabilitation project.
3.5. The Ministry of Social Welfare, Gender, and Children's Affairs reaches out to some of the most
affected and disaffected populations. Their responsibilities cover child protection issues such as war
affected children, street children, orphans, and girls and women who have been physically and
psycho-socially harmed. Many of these individuals will require attention with respect to HIV/AIDS and
STIs, along with the wide range of other services. Social welfare workers will need to be trained and
supported so that they will include HIV/AIDS as part of their counseling and care efforts. This ministry has
been working on an HIV/AIDS program of action to be able to fulfill its responsibilities. It would also
monitor gender inclusion in activities undertaken by other line ministries and implementing NGOs.
3.6. The transport sector is crucial for the future development of Sierra Leone. Improved rural road
networks are likely to attract not only settlements, trading facilities, commercial sex workers, long and
short distance truckers, and road construction workers who live in "moving camps", but could be potential
vectors for the spread of the infection--or conversely, an opportunity to stem the spread by information and
prevention measures. Transportation Ministry staff, their dependents, truckers, road construction crews and
trade associations would be groups that would be targeted in an HIV/AIDS prevention campaign both in
terms of IEC/BCC and condom distribution. The Ministry of Transportation has already engaged in an
active HIV/AIDS campaign program, has designated a steering committee, and developed awareness
materials, all of which can be expanded under SHARP.
3.7. The Ministry of Defense has developed plans to address HIV/AIDS within the armed forces, including
policies addressing the rights of PLWHAs, as well as equipping military hospitals and health facilities with
testing capability. With respect to ex-combatants, heretofore they were to be sensitized to HIV through the
Demobilization phase of the Govemment's Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Program
(DDR Program). The disarmament and demobilization phases of the DDR program were completed in
January 2002. The social and economic reintegration of ex-combatants will continue within the framework
of the DDR program, which will be supervised by NCDDR in close collaboration with the National
Commission for Social Action (NaCSA).
3.8. Agriculture and rural development have an important role to play in the concerted effort to inform and
motivate populations to prevent the spread of the virus. Rural development programs and rural
development staff can cooperate in the effort to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. Extension agents would
be trained and then once they have the necessary skills, expected to communicate with the rural
communities with which they interact.
3.9. The health sector in Sierra Leone has considerable expertise and unique responsibilities in this area.
The Bank's existing health project has functioned effectively during the recent difficult periods because of
its strong management and continuing health service delivery by health professionals. This project has a
good implementation record and its staff has been cooperating fully in sharing its knowledge and
experiences with the new HIV/AIDS team. As to the health sector responsibilities, first, it is responsible for
specific aspects such as epidemiological oversight (to the extent possible), preparation and supervision of
voluntary testing, case management protocols, setting up of the blood supply system and quality assurance,
and provision of drugs for STI, TB, and other opportunistic infections. The health sector is the main
supplier of such services and is responsible that products such as medicines, condoms, protective gloves,
- 7 -



are available, of good quality, and affordable. Health personnel will require additional training in how to
provide HIV/AIDS services, counseling related to these services and/or products, as well as preventive
measures when interacting with patients. Second, in Sierra Leone, health facilities will serve as referral
units to support HIV/AIDS activities carried out by other ministries, non-governmental organizations, the
private sector, and communities, but on an expanded basis. Third, health personnel at all levels must
become key allies in the fight against HIV/AIDS, in its prevention, treatment and care dimensions (and this
will be reinforced through expanded prevention when interacting with patients). The shift to a
multi-sectoral approach and the placing of the HIV/AIDS Secretariat outside the health sector, has
sometimes resulted in confusion and concem among health officials; however, in Sierra Leone there is a
consensus on the key role of the MOHS and its decentralized units which is satisfactory to the health
sector.
3.10. As a cross-cutting feature, community involvement is of crucial importance for an effective
HIV/AIDS campaign. Community, civil society and private sector activities are needed to support
prevention as well as care of those infected and affected. Such efforts will help empower communities at
different levels to heighten awareness of the general population, fight discrimination against individuals
infected and/or affected by the HIV virus, and encourage individuals to seek prevention and care services
when needed. Strong emphasis will be placed on counseling of both HIV positive individuals and families.
Of particular note is that SHARP will address chiefdom capacity to plan and implement HIV/AIDS related
community-based initiatives, initially on a pilot basis and subsequently to be expanded based on
experience.
3.11. At the crossroads of all of the above is information generation, packaging, and dissemination of
messages which address the full spectrum of issues, from prevention to therapy, as well as the
socio-cultural ramifications of the society related to the spread of the virus.
3.12. Similarly, the multi-sectoral nature of the problem requires a more comprehensive developmental and
economic planning approach. This means that HIV/AIDS containment must be pursued in the context of
broad economic and social policy dialogue, as well as in the sectoral planning processes.
3.13. The Sierra Leonean situation is further complicated by large refugee populations which are located
beyond its borders in neighboring countries, as well as refugees and returnees within Sierra Leone's
borders. Cooperation with neighboring countries in assessing prevalence rates, providing for voluntary
counseling and testing, access to condoms, and formulating consistent behavioral change communications
messages and other interventions, is a strategic option being explored by Sierra Leone and its neighboring
countries, for mutual benefit. Following on two general sub-regional meetings held in 1998 and 1999
between the three Mano River Union (MRU) countries (Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Guinea), intemational
HIV/AIDS partners began in October 2001 organizing to find ways to effectively and efficiently launch a
coordinated and collaborative sub-regional initiative to reduce vulnerability to STI/HIV/AIDS among
displaced populations (refugees, retumees, IDPs), host communities, war-affected women and children, the
military and peacekeeping forces. The Technical Consultation on the Mano River Union Initiative on
HIV/AIDS, held in Abidjan on February 1-2, 2002 reconfirmed the need to support cross-border programs
for these populations.
3.14. An additional special factor to be taken into consideration is the thousands of foreign troops under
UNAMSIL control, the largest peacekeeping force in the world. These troops can either be a vector for
HIV virus transmission or a means to make the HIV/AIDS risk and means of control more widely
disseminated in Sierra Leone. UNAMSIL has an HIV/AIDS focal point who participates in the UN Theme
Group on HIV/AIDS, and has launched a program of sensitization and awareness, and condom
- 8-



distribution, as well as a radio program that airs every week across the country. According to a knowledge,
attitudes and behaviors baseline survey conducted by the American Refugee Committee (ARC) in Port
Loko, 52% of UNAMSIL personnel reported having used condoms at last sexual contact (2001), versus
38% reported for commercial sex workers and 26% for the Sierra Leone Army (including CDF).
Coordination and best practices will continue to be shared with the UNAMSIL HIV/AIDS focal point
through its membership of the UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS. However, activities specifically designed
for UNAMSIL personnel will not be financed through SHARP.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1.1. The proposed project will finance the full spectrum of HIV/AIDS activities including prevention, care,
support, and impact mitigation over a four year period. It will have four components: (1) capacity building,
policy and program coordination; (2) multi-sector responses to HIV/AIDS prevention and care; (3)
health-sector responses to HIV/AIDS, STI/TB and other opportunistic infection management, including
prevention and care; and (4) community and civil society initiatives (including communities, NGOs,
religious groups and the private sector). These activities will take into account the existing conditions and
level of capacity at each administrative structure (national, regional, district, and chiefdoms).
1.2. SHARP institutional arrangements are straightforward and briefly described here: The National
HIV/AIDS Council (NAC) will be established and under the chairmanship of the President. Council
members will be representatives of civil society and the Government in roughly equal numbers. The "NAC"
will be the advocacy and oversight body for all national activities in HIV/AIDS, whether carried out by the
health sector or under the multi-sector development umbrella. It will be supported by a secretariat, a newly
created entity called the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS) which will be the coordinating/facilitating
body for planning, advocacy, IEC/BCC, training, as well as component implementation coordination, and
overall monitoring and evaluation (further detail regarding institutional arrangements are contained in
paragraphs 1.20-1.29, below).
1.3. The NAC will regularly (at least semi-annually) review progress in achieving SHARP objectives and
constraints encountered in its implementation. On an annual basis NAC will review with IDA the proposed
work plan and budget for the next year, and approve it, taking into account SHARP component
performance and priority needs in meeting overall National HIV/AIDS Policy goals. These annual reviews
will include a coordination meeting with other donors and partners. Further, there will be a mid-term
review during which there will be a comprehensive assessment of overall project performance, what has
worked and what has not, and decisions made with respect to the most effective future course for SHARP.
Component 1. Capacity Building, Policy and Program Coordination (US$2.70 million)
1.4. This component would aim to strengthen Sierra Leone's capacity to cope with the spread of
HIV/AIDS by supporting: (i) the work of the National HIV/AIDS Council (NAC) and Secretariat (NAS);
(ii) the ongoing development of the national HIV/AIDS Strategy and Action Plan and its underpinnings;
(iii) strengthening of public and private institutions in HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and (iv) Sierra
Leone's participation in refugee/refugee-related activities. (Funding of interventions for refugees outside
Sierra Leone will be sought from other donor partners as well as possible grant funding sources.) Four
sub-components would address the following areas: (a) the National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Action Plan;
(b) SHARP Coordination and Administration, (c) Advocacy, Training, and Technical Support Activities,
-9-



and (d) Assessment, Monitoring and Evaluation including biological and behavioral surveillance and
mapping, epidemiological research, operational research and pilot testing, as well as other health sector
monitoring and evaluation activities. It should be emphasized that the SHARP project is predicated on the
assumption that rapid Project preparation without extensive ex ante technical analysis is possible, if
effective M&E systems are rapidly established as a management tool, to guide continuous project
adjustments. Thus, the M&E system is seen as a key element in assuring project success. As to training,
SHARP will not meet all training needs, including refresher training. There are indications from other
donors (WHO,UNICEF, DFID), they will consider supporting such training needs.
Component 2. Multi-sector Responses for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care (US$2.00 million)
1.5. This component will improve the capacity of non-health sector line ministries and other public sector
entities to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, emphasizing prevention and care. Integrated into their
ongoing operations, this will be achieved through development of ministerial policies (within the national
policy framework), coupled with a two-phased action approach which will be carried out through annual
action plans, agreed to by NAC. The first phase will be the provision to line ministry staff and their
dependents of HIV/AIDS and STIs education, training, condoms, and other care-related support, to
encourage HIV/AIDS and STIs avoidance behavior, destigmatize the illness and support for those
infected/affected. The second phase will be for line ministry staff to provide their extemal clients (e.g.
parent teachers associations, farmer associations, women's groups, legal associations, chiefdoms, village
health committees, street children, miners) with information on effective HIV/AIDS and STIs prevention,
and ways to access health care facilities, treatment and care. Line ministries or their equivalent will have
HIV/AIDS focal persons designated to design and carry out policies and action plans, with support from
SHARP in terms of facilities, equipment, and incremental operating costs.
1.6. Line Ministries will initially focus on the goal of HIV/AIDS and STIs awareness, avoidance behavior,
and support for those staff and dependents who are infected/affected. A core program approach will shape
ministerial activities. These programs can be expanded, once the core program is satisfactorily underway.
As part of the core program, Ministries would include appointment of a ministerial focal point, provision
for training the focal point and others in the ministry, transportation for the focal point, access to technical
advisory services, HIV/AIDS and STIs/IEC materials, condom distribution channels, rehabilitated office
space and office equipment, and incremental operating costs, all needed to effectively carry out this effort.
Finally, M&E training and capacity will also be provided by the NAS to the line ministries for their
programs.
1.7. These activities will be done in the context of line ministries working to rebuild their basic
infrastructure and human resources in a post-conflict environment.Participating ministries include
agriculture, defense, development and economic planning, youth, education and sports, information and
broadcasting, NaCSA, social welfare, gender and children's affairs, transport and communications. For
participating ministries, a NAS Line Ministry Coordinator will assist them in developing and carrying out
their action plans.
1.8. One ministry of particular importance is the Ministry of Youth, Education and Sports (MYES). It will
develop HIV/AIDS content for in-school children starting at the Junior Secondary School (JSS) level, in the
context of other efforts such as Life Skills or Family Life Education. Relevant material will be developed
for teachers as well as for School Management Committees (SMC)) to be established under a new
IDA-financed Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project (REBEP). SHARP will support sensitization of
SMCs as they get established as a pre-requisite to SHARP financed HIV/AIDS clubs at the JSS level.
Further, additional contract staff at the central MYES level will be financed under the Ministry's core
- 10 -



program to handle the additional workload.
Component 3. Health Sector Responses to STI/HIV Management (US$2.80 million)
1.9. A strong health system is a foundation for success in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Within the public
sector the health system bears almost exclusive responsibility for care and treatment, plays a pivotal role in
many preventive activities, and endures the greatest impact on its staff and operations. The Ministry of
Health and Sanitation (MOHS) and more broadly the health community, have special responsibilities for
HIV/AIDS, STI, and other opportunistic infections (including tuberculosis) prevention, and management.
This sector therefore warrants a separate component, making provision for prevention, treatment, care, and
from a health sector perspective, whether public or private. This component provides the resources to the
health sector to build on and complement the work done by the MOHS under the IDA financed Integrated
Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP), as well as other reproductive and communicable disease
activities currently performed or to be financed by the MOHS and its health sector partners. SHARP will
provide resources to support the health sector in this area for approximately three years, at which time
resources under the new Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP) are expected to
be available. The HSRDP is expected to concentrate its efforts in four health districts (at this point they are
Kono, Bombali, Moyamba, and Koinadugu). At the SHARP annual and mid-term reviews project activities
will be assessed. If health is perforning well and resources for the health component appear insufficient to
sustain the necessary level of activity, additional funds from SHARP will be made available.
1.10. Under this component, the MOHS will also be able to do the "core" activities described above for the
other line ministries. In addition, MOHS will be able to enhance its reproductive health, TB and
opportunistic infection efforts, with SHARP funding. The MOHS will not be able to undertake all of the
health sector specific tasks needed at once, nor do it without assistance from other non-public health care
providers. MOHS will prioritize which aspects, where, when and how quickly it can implement and scale
up its HIV/AIDS, STI, and TB services, in the context of its revised National Health Action Plan. Looking
towards a more aggressive effort against HIV/AIDS, the NACP will be restructured, strengthened into the
ARG-MOHS.
1.11. This component would encompass: i) improvements in the central laboratory at Connaught Hospital;
ii) the scaling-up of the national sentinel surveillance system and voluntary counseling and testing (VCT)
protocols as well as a significant role in carrying out VCT activities and follow-up; iii) implementation of
syndromic algorithms for diagnostic and case management of sexually transmitted infections (STI); iv) the
scaling-up of the national blood screening and supply program; v) the strengthening of the national and
other referral hospitals for dealing with HIV/AIDS, STIs, and other opportunistic infections including TB;
vi) the procurement of condoms, support for a social marketing program, and a significant role in the
distribution of condoms; vii) the scaling up of activities geared to vulnerable/potentially high transmitter
groups in collaboration with other sector partners; viii) establishment at the primary level of a care (and
possibly treatment) program for people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS; ix) services to prevent
mother-to-child-transmission (MTCT) including counseling on breastfeeding, family planning, maternal
support and drug therapy when combined with VCT, care for HIV positive pregnant women and children;
and x) and steps for developing, approving and implementing a medical waste training and prospectively, a
waste management plan. Global experience indicates that while the MOHS can assist with clinical services
for vulnerable groups, NGOs are better at outreach for vulnerable groups such as sex workers, orphans or
vulnerable children, and there are already promising NGO efforts in Sierra Leone. Much of this is
envisioned in the National Health Action Plan and in "scaling up" such efforts, which is fully in keeping
with one of the main purposes of the MAP approach.
- 11 -



1.12. Given the role of the health sector three aspects are highlighted with respect to the health sector.
First, blood supply is important. The stated policy goal of Sierra Leone is that national blood supplies be
controlled and assured as safe. Donor mobilization will be supported under this project, along with funds
for preparation of a plan for national blood transfusion services, one which identifies the necessary
equipment to complement what is being done under existing efforts, what would be needed in terms of
blood bags and reagents, and training of laboratory technicians. The objective would be to ensure that
blood for transfusion and blood products do not transmit STIs and HIV. Second, there is need for
specialized training in HIV/AIDS and STI hazardous materials handling and provision of medical supplies
to health workers so as to prevent STI and HIV transmission. Health workers represent a particularly
vulnerable group because of their routine contact with hazardous materials, where they are on the front
line, and need to be confident their personal safety and well-being are taken into account so that they
actively promote testing of patients, care, and support for PLWHAs. Related to the safety of both health
workers and the general population is the need for norms and standards for hazardous waste disposal,
appropriate to Sierra Leone, and that these be taken into account at health facilities, along with training of
facility personnel.
1. 13. Third, there is need to move effectively in mitigating MTCT of HlV/AIDS. When combined with
voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), MTCT can be dramatically reduced through short, inexpensive
treatment of pregnant women and newborns, accompanied by appropriate health and social services for the
woman and child. One of the key drugs has been made available free of charge to a group of countries
which includes Sierra Leone. WHO and UNAIDS have produced protocols and recommendations to guide
program design, which will be pursued and financed by SHARP on an expanding basis. The management
of pregnancy in HIV-positive women is seen as integral to the care of women and children. The
establishment of VCT sites at ANC centers, will reduce the impact of H1V/AIDS and STIs at pregnancy,
both in terms of primary prevention of infection and care of the pregnant woman and her child. In sum,
SHARP will support the MTCT program. With respect to Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART), however, while
this holds the potential to prolong, improve, and save lives, it is not appropriate for financing in Sierra
Leone at this juncture, except to support a modest pilot effort, coupled with a high degree of monitoring
and evaluation. While drug prices have fallen, serious challenges of sensitivity, toxicity, resistance,
sustainability, access, ethics, and equity must first be addressed. Sierra Leone does not now have the health
system infrastructure to deliver such drugs or sustain long-term patient management. Any prospective
decisions in this regard will be made in conjunction with partners and technical agencies, and considered
against the criteria set forth below. An approach to ART will have to substantially involve PLWHA, and
include ethical and equitable guidelines for deciding who is to benefit in the initial stages. In assessing
readiness IDA will look to the adequacy of underlying preventive and basic care programs, prior country
performnance in delivering MTCT programs, sustainability of the program, and the country's assessment of
the likely opportunity costs.
Component 4. Community and Civil Society Initiatives - CCSI (US$7.80million)
1.14. Grant resources will be provided to support a broad range of community, civil society and private
sector initiatives. (These include chiefdoms, villages, religious groups, women's groups, ex-combatants,
refugees or internally displaced groups and their families, youth groups, orphanages, organizations
supporting street and vulnerable children, legal associations, commercial sex workers, prisoners and their
dependents, unions, businesses, trade and worker associations, line ministry staff associations, sports clubs
and the like). CCSI will provide the resources for a wide spectrum of preventive and care activities at
national, regional, and local levels. A substantial share of SHARP funding will be allocated to these
activities, earmarked for non-governmental, community-based, and private sector initiatives. The intention
is to pursue a two-track approach: a) based on agreement between NAC and NaCSA, large scale proposals
- 12-



(over $25,000) will be put forward to NAS by the National Commission for Social Action which has the
staff and the structure able to review, appraise, supervise and monitor projects; and b) second, a
SHARP-specific mechanism which reaches communities with smaller (under $25,000), more "software"
oriented interventions.
1.15. Notwithstanding the similarities in terms of SHARP target groups and objectives, there are important
differences with NaCSA. The predecessor to NaCSA, the ERSF, was designed to respond to pre-existing
identified needs (rehabilitation). HIV/AIDS is not a subject about which many communities have strong
past, felt needs. SHARP will have to blend awareness raising to stimulate demand, and then be positioned
to respond to that demand. There is a need to reach communities with activities that emphasize behavioral
change and heighten awareness. Such efforts tend to require smaller amounts of resources, do not
necessarily require civil works or equipment, and function over a longer period of time. It is for these types
of activities which SHARP will have another channel.
1. 16. The CCSI component will be phased over the course of the project life. Specifically: i) as to
geographic coverage, CCSI will expand as Government and NGO services expand within Sierra Leone to
cover refugee populations. From the outset significant CCSI resources are expected to be used for refugee,
retumee, IDP and host community activities (see Annex 13); ii) as to CCSI project delivery chanmels, while
in the first project year will use a NaCSA channel, a new system is to be added as soon as possible; and iii)
as to grant size, increasingly the effort would be to "scale down" in order to reach smaller groups with
smaller grants.
1.17. The size of any single activity is not expected to be large (many under $5,000), with the larger
activities in the order of US $100,000 or conceivably more for organizations needing multi-year
commitment. Prevention activities will be designed to reduce high risk behavior and exposure to risk, to
reduce the vulnerability of those who are unaware of their risk or cannot protect themselves. Awareness
activities would aim to "de-stigmatize" the disease so as to increase access to prevention and care, and
provide support to those infected or affected. For families affected by HIV/AIDS, these resources could
reduce the impact of their plight by financing services to provide care for any person living with the virus,
but especially for HIV/AIDS symptomatic persons and their dependents, for orphans, and for income
generating activities. For PLWHAs, orphans and vulnerable children, the provision of social, spiritual, and
financial support would also be envisioned. Within this group would be the substantial numbers of street
children, who are found in most cities and towns. Because of circumstance, many are vulnerable to forced
sexual activity or prostitution, have high rates of STIs or become pregnant, and are in need of attention.
1. 18. NGOs and community-based organizations (CBOs) are treated as two different entities in Sierra
Leone and regulated by two different ministries. Rules and regulations for NGOs have been prepared and
approved by MODEP. Registration of NGOs and CBOs is currently in process. An assessment of
NGO/CBO capacity indicates there is a great deal of work to be done in raising H1V/AIDS awareness and
knowledge of what assistance is needed to NGOs/CBOs before an intensive CCSI intervention program can
be fully operational. To this end the NAS will provide capacity development assistance, to work with these
groups to train and provide guidance. What is clear is that there is a large, interested, active, and growing
intemational and national NGO/CBO community who want to support a wide range of activities, with
varying levels of institutional experience, resources, and objectives. Many have access to professional
experience in other countries and support from their international affiliates working on vulnerable group
programs.
1. 19. Activities Eligible for Funding. Eligible activities will be defined in a Community and Civil Society
Initiatives Manual satisfactory to IDA as a supplement to the Project Operations Manual. NaCSA
- 13-



identified illustrative activities for large scale financing. These include a) catalytic funding of associations
such as trade unions, contractors, to promote greater HIV/AIDS awareness and behavior change, as well as
similar efforts for NGOs who implement NaCSA projects by having them add an HIV/AIDS component to
their activities; and b) targeted funding to reach specific groups such as support to HIV/AIDS infected
victims, support to released Sierra Leone Army soldiers who tested positive for HIV, infected mothers in
order to prevent transmission (acting through qualified NGOs), and supporting street children who
represent a high risk group. The basic premise is that either through NaCSA or later, through a new
channel, if a qualified applicant puts forward a proposal consistent with SHARP goals, it would be
presumed to be eligible for financing. Activities would inter alia address the following areas: (i)
information education and communication/behavioral change communications (IEC/BCC) campaigns; (ii)
support to high-risk groups such as commercial sex workers and vulnerable groups subject to sexual abuse
and discrimination; (iii) youth-related activities; (iv) activities which support orphans and other vulnerable
children, including street children; (v) assistance to women, such as counseling for various interventions to
prevent MTCT, including infant feeding support; (vi) condom supply and dissemination; (vii) voluntary
testing, counseling, and management of opportunistic infections; (viii) literacy programs with reproductive
health content; (ix) assistance to sub-project partners in management, supervision and beneficiary
assessment; and (x) care provided by traditional healers. (This is an "illustrative" list which is not intended
to limit the scope of activities that may become eligible for funding under this component).
Institutional Arrangements.
1.20. The project will be placed under the authority of a National HIV/AIDS Council (NAC) in the Office
of the President, which will have oversight of the National HIV/AIDS Policy/Strategy and Plan of Action;
define broad priorities of action and work plans and budgets for the SHARP; approve the key staff of the
National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS); and monitor both the performance of the SHARP, as well as
national performance in responding to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, including that of the health sector. On
January 23, 2002 the Cabinet approved the National HIV/AIDS Policy, National HIV/AIDS Council and
Secretariat. The NAC will include high level representatives of both the public and non-public sectors
(roughly in equal numbers), including selected line ministries, NGOs, religious, women, and youth groups,
uniformed services, as well as institutions caring for AIDS victims and subsequently, PLWHAs. NAC will
report to the President who would officially be the chairperson, with the vice-chairmanship rotating on an
annual basis. As indicated, NAC will review SHARP jointly with IDA to agree on the next annual plan and
any adjustments which may be necessary in the allocation of resources, the project operations manual, and
CCSI approaches. These annual reviews will also include a coordination meeting with the other donors and
partners.
1.21. NAC will be supported by a National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS). NAS will be the administrative,
coordinating and supervisory/monitoring mechanism for SHARP. NAS will be involved in advocacy and
policy coordination, assist in the preparation of multisectoral action plans and review of line ministry
annual plans, oversee the IMA, coordinate HIV/AIDS training, oversee operational research and studies,
provide monitoring and evaluation for the entire SHARP, convene meetings of the NAC, and provide
information to it. In the case of sub-regional programs to deal with refugees, retumees and intemally
displaced persons, NAS would perform such functions as delegated to it by the NAC focusing on
coordinating and facilitating such activities through communication and partnership with neighboring
countries to foster greater collaboration in targeting these vulnerable groups. Above a specified amount and
for exceptional circumstances, NAS would also review, prepare technical recommendations, and present
such proposals to NAC for approval.
1.22. NAS will have a core professional staff of seven to nine people comprised of a Director and Deputy
- 14 -



Director (in charge of the CCSI component), with specialists in planning, monitoring and evaluation,
capacity development (training), IEC/BCC coordination and line ministiy coordination. (Procurement and
financial management provided by the FPMA.) A sound financial management system will be established
for the SHARP with the objective of providing accurate and timely information regarding resources and
expenditures. The financial management system will include accounting, project management reporting
(financial and procurement reporting) and auditing elements.
1.23. With respect to capacity development, a Capacity Development Team (CDT) in NAS will be
established. CDT will have one qualified capacity development specialist with 2-3 supporting staff.
CDT's task will be to develop relevant training and capacity building materials for the various target
groups and/or CCSI applicants, and conduct/coordinate training and capacity development programs. The
CDT will be responsible for planning and sensitizing prospective, potential CCSI candidates who do not
meet initially the eligibility criteria for applying for CCSI funds. In the case of capacity development of
communities, and smaller civil society groups, the CDT could sub-contract the sensitization/training to
NGOs, following IDA procurement rules. CDT will be a central set up, and will manage its tasks from
within NAS.
1.24. With respect to health-sector activities, the NAS will look to the MOHS to implement its programs,
receiving from the MOHS regular reporting on its progress. The existing National AIDS Control
Programme (NACP) will become the Health Sector H1V/AIDS Response Group (ARG-MOHS) under the
Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS), and will have a key role in health sector-HIV/AIDS/STI/TB
and other opportunistic infection activities. This new "Group" will require additional financial support to
which SHARP will substantially contribute. NAS will have close contact with ARG-MOHS and involve it
in all major SHARP decisions. Health sector HIV/AIDS activities will be carried out by the MOHS using
and building on existing institutional, technical, administrative, and logistical capacity. MOHS will operate
a separate Special Account for their agreed annual work program. MOHS will be responsible for managing
the health program finances and procurement matters, utilizing its existing administrative capacity under
the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP).
1.25. Non-health line ministries will receive funds to carry out sector HIV/AIDS programs to be
supervised by their designated focal points. They will utilize their existing institutional capacity to
supervise, manage resources, and report to NAS on activities. These programs will start with core activities
and expand to more open-ended menus of activities as the line ministries demonstrate capacity. Financial
and relevant procurement management for the line ministries will be done by the individual ministries who
will have their own local bank account, based on the approved annual work plans.
1.26. NAS will outsource two key responsibilities: (i) for processing small CCSI applications and
refugee/refugee-related activities; and (ii) financial and procurement management.
1.27. An Intervention Management Agent (IMA), will be responsible (under a contract with NAC/NAS) to
receive small scale (roughly below or around US$25,000) applications from CCSI applicants, appraise
them per established guidelines related to SHARP objectives and the National HIV/AIDS Policy and
strategy, and in conjunction with NAS, approve applications for funding. IMA will be responsible for
applying eligibility criteria. It may refer applicants who do not meet CCSI eligibility to NAS for any
necessary capacity building needs. CCSI proposals will be technically appraised and approved by the IMA
on a NAS "non-Objection" basis. Proposals that are approved will be forwarded by the IMA to the FPMA
for disbursement and procurement. IMA will also be responsible for field monitoring of ongoing CCSI
sub-projects and be able to sub-contract NGOs for field supervision of such sub-projects, if needed. The
IMA will have its main office/key personnel in Freetown co-located with NAS. Staff would include a
- 15-



manager, 2-3 persons as proposal evaluators, possibly a financial person to look into the financial side of
CCSI proposals, 2-3 secretarial staff to receive proposals and maintain a sub-projects database, and a 2-3
drivers. As the demand for CCSI projects increase, IMA will establish its outposts in appropriate regions
with a very small staff who would essentially act as proposal receiving units, applying only basic eligibility
criteria. All proposal review will be done at the central office in the first two years of SHARP. As
district/regional HIV/AIDS committees are established, IMA will work with these committees in processing
the proposals and building capacity for its longer term role.
1.28. NAS will contract with an independent Financial/Procurement Management Agent (FPMA) to
provide assistance in managing project funds and financial/procurement administration, with at least one
highly qualified representative for financial management and an equally qualified representative for
procurement management, both located in NAS offices. NAS will provide the necessary support staff. This
FPMA would also review financial reports submitted to NAS, help train staff, and serve as internal auditor.
Depending on the selection of the delivery channels for community and civil society initiatives, the FPMA
would either be directly involved in admninistration of these funds or have access to the records of the
financing channels. (This would affect the size of FPMA staff involved in SHARP). In any case, these
funds would be used in accordance with a detailed operations manual that would be applicable to all
participants, and NAS/SHARP would provide basic training in mobilization, the application process,
financial management, and procurement procedures.
1.29. The FPMA and IMA will be independent contracts with entities which are intemationally
experienced in managing projects of a similar nature. NAS will advertise and select these entities prior to
Credit Effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.30. SHARP is based on the assumption that rapid Project preparation is possible if effective M&E
systems are rapidly established as a management tool to guide continuous project and program adjustments.
The flexibility of the MAP approach means that program content must be more closely observed so that the
interventions can be suitably modified. This places great onus on M&E, particularly in Sierra Leone, where
M&E systems must be established afresh after protracted conflict. Notwithstanding, in Sierra Leone there
has been considerable work in piecemeal data collection on various prevalence rates, as well as behavioral
surveys. Along with "HIV/AIDS in Sierra Leone, Situation Analysis" (April 2001) prepared under MOHS
auspices, probably the most comprehensive report is the Multi-Cluster Survey (MICS 2), "Survey Report
on the Status of Women and Children in Sierra Leone at the end of the Decade" (November 2000). This
was produced by the Central Statistics Office (MODEP) with technical and financial support from
UNICEF, UNFPA, UNHCR, Action AID, the Christian Children's Fund, and the Christian Health
Association of Sierra Leone.
1.31. The following M&E elements are proposed: (i) surveillance; (ii) epidemiological research; (iii)
fnancial management; and (iv) project management (see Annex 11 "Monitoring and Evaluation", for
further details). These M&E activities will be funded with project resources, but it is expected other
partners, including WHO, UNICEF, USAID and DFID, will complement elements of the M&E package.
1.32. Surveillance comprises biological and behavioral surveillance. While the Centers for Disease Control
(USA) is supporting a household biological survey during 2002, which will provide valuable data, it is
unlikely to repeated. Regular, annual biological surveillance of antenatal patients, as well as behavioral
surveillance at 18-24 month intervals, among female sex workers, soldiers/demobilizes and youth
(including males/females, in and out of school) is needed. Epidemiological research will determnine HIV and
- 16 -



STI prevalence and to track trends over time among female sex workers, a key sentinel or "tripwire"
population. Financial/procurement management and project management monitoring will focus on
SHARP's contracting and coordinating capacity and the relevance, quantity, quality and economy of public
sector, community and civil society services delivered.
1.33. M&E Structure. While the M&E structure will evolve during project execution, the M&E structure
envisioned at its inception is as follows: a) Biological surveillance coordination will be delegated to the
health sector HIV/AIDS response group, assisted by the Central Statistical Office, the Epidemiology Unit,
and the University of Sierra Leone Medical School; b) Behavioral surveillance will be coordinated by the
health sector HIV/AIDS response group and contracted to an academic or consulting organization, assisted
by the Central Statistical Office and the University of Sierra Leone; c) Epidemiological research will also
be coordinated by the health sector HIV/AIDS response group (ARG-MOHS), assisted by the Central
Statistical Office, the Epidemiology Unit, and the University of Sierra Leone Medical School. Monitoring
of small CCSI sub-projects will be the responsibility of the IMA, which will include physical progress
implementation as well as sub-project finance management.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
.__-__.__.__.__.    (US$M)    Total     (US$M)    financing
Capacity Building, Policy and                           2.70       17.6      2.60      17.3
Program Coordination
Multi-sector Responses to HIV/AIDS                      2.00       13.1      2.00      13.3
Prevention and Care
Health Sector Responses to STIs/HIV                     2.80       18.3      2.80      18.7
Management
Community and Civil Society                             7.80      51.0       7.60      50.7
Initiatives
Total Project Costs                   15.30     100.0      15.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                     15.30     100.0      15.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
2.1. The Project will assist in carrying forward a comprehensive National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Plan of
Action under the National HIV/AIDS Policy that will bring together in a more coordinated manner, many
initiatives that are already underway in the country. By supporting the National HIV/AIDS Council and a
secretariat in the Office of the President, it will encourage deepening recognition that this is a multi-sectoral
issue, that the highest levels of govemment have taken leadership in their hands, engaging public and
private institutions to do common cause against this threat.
3. Benefits and target population:
3.1. By scaling up efforts in the fight against HIV/AIDS, and involving all sectors and levels of society,
the project is expected to have a major impact in containing the spread of the virus, improving care for
PLWHA, and mitigating the social impact of the epidemic. The Project will:
*   Improve individual, household, and community ability to prevent HIV/AIDS and/or reduce its effects;
*   Decrease HIV, STI, and opportunistic infection incidence through emphasis on safe sex practices,
improvement of laboratory facilities, education and support of health care workers and technicians, and
- 17-



treatment of opportunistic infections; and
*   Improve community responses and local empowerment to mitigate and/or respond to the potential
impact of the spread of HIV/AIDS.
3.2. The project will benefit all Sierra Leoneans, namely, those with high risk/vulnerability behavior and
PLWHA, by reducing the rate of transmission of the virus and extending the productive life of people living
with, or affected by HIV/AIDS. High risk sub-groups may include: youth (in and out of school); women;
orphans and other vulnerable children; caregivers of PLWA; foster parents; populations with signs and
symptoms of STIs and other opportunistic infections; commercial sex workers and their clients; uniformed
services and ex-combatants; refugees and internally displaced persons; health workers including traditional
healers and birth attendants; transport and education workers; and miners and other workers in the private
sector. These sub-groups will benefit from improved prevention, care, and support services by public and
non-public entities providers which will be better trained, staffed, equipped, and coordinated. The general
public will benefit from STI/HIV awareness information, counseling, and testing, as well as knowledge
about safe sex practices and access to condoms, and better waste management practices.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1. The estimated period of implementation is 4 years. The program will be implemented within the
existing systems of Government, supplemented by a HIV/AIDS National Council and Secretariat. It will
support institutions at national and sub-national levels. Partnerships with NGOs and the private sector will
be encouraged and supported. As areas of Sierra Leone have expanded services and access to Government,
NGOs, and the private sector, and as the Government pursues a decentralization process, SHARP will
move in tandem. The National HIV/AIDS Secretariat will coordinate all four components, but have
particular responsibilities for policy and project coordination, project monitoring and evaluation,
operational research, and community/civil society initiatives. The MOHS will be responsible for the health
sector responses and, based on agreed annual work plan agreements, key participating line ministries will
be responsible for carrying out their approved activities. (see Annex 2 for details).
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1. The Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region's Project Appraisal Document provides
the basic rationale for a MAP approach. For Sierra Leone, HIV/AIDS transmission poses such a
significant danger to the already weakened fabric of Sierra Leone society and its economic future, that it
stands among the highest priorities to be undertaken in this war-tom country. HIV/AIDS requires public
sector leadership and financial support. One option considered was to simply supplement the work being
done in reproductive health under the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP) and its future
successor project, the Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP). However, it was
not thought this would be a fast and effective way to mount a major campaign against the epidemic, given
the multi-dimensional and multi-sectoral nature of the HIV/AIDS problem, the need to move urgently and
flexibly at community level, and the heavy demands already placed on the Ministry of Health and
Sanitation (MOHS).
1.2. Financing of anti-retroviral therapy (ART)s: To be effective, ART provision must meet generally
recognized preconditions, including a system in place for voluntary counseling and testing for HIV (which
is a prerequisite for reducing transmission), trained personnel, the necessary clinical facilities, medical
equipment and laboratory infrastructure must be in place as well as effective measures for monitoring drug
resistance and tolerance (pre- and post-screening), patient counseling and follow-up. At this juncture, these
- 18-



preconditions do not exist in Sierra Leone. Further, there is need for an institutional mechanism for fairly
selecting patient access to ART in the public sector based on clear medical and income criteria in
accordance with WHO/UNAIDS guidelines for their introduction in resource limited settings.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Health, Nutrition and Population  Integrated Health Sector          S             S
Investment Project
Other development agencies
UNFPA                             Program support and condom
supplies
UNICEF                            Adolescent awareness, Life
Skills education, KAP studies
European Union                    Health sector support
DFID                              Community development and
govemance
UNAMSIL                           Program provision and condom
distribution and IEC
U.S. Govemment                    HIV/AIDS baseline prevalence
surveys, development activities
WHO                                HIV/AIDS, TB, reproductive
health technical support,
communicable disease
surveillance
UNHCR                              Refugee support
WFP                                Refugee support             _      _       _     _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
3.1. Political Leadership and Commitment: Political "champions" are key to mobilizing national and donor
resources for the fight against the epidemic. The Sierra Leone Government at Presidential and Cabinet
levels recognize the social and economic imperatives of containing the virus and are committed to
supporting a sustained program.
3.2. Multi-sectoral Approach, Stakeholder Consultations, and Community Participation: From experience
it is known that the health sector alone cannot win the war against HIV/AIDS on a sustained basis. There is
need to involve key ministries at all levels, communities, NGOs and the private sector as early in the
process as possible. For the Sierra Leone MAP there have been regular consultations with a wide range of
stakeholders, particularly those with important roles to play in implementation. Project identification has
been done in consultation with line ministries, UNAMSIL, NGOs, World Bank project managers, and other
implementers and donor agencies. A special effort was made to systematically engage the UN Theme
Group on HIV/AIDS at every stage, including the issuance ofjoint statements provided to the Government
- 19 -



as well as funding technical assistance which was jointly shared.
3.3. Implementing Across Ministries: Past experience has demonstrated difficulties in implementing
projects across multiple ministries. Obviously a multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS project must engage a number of
line ministries and other government/public sector mechanisms and have them cooperate. The risks inherent
in this arrangement will be mitigated by the fact that the SHARP is to be coordinated from the Office of the
President. Such high level coordination will give SHARP sufficient authority, and place it above
inter-ministerial differences, so it will be able to facilitate timely resolution of those bureaucratic difficulties
which might arise. Further, the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat will have a Line Ministry Coordinator to
focus on establishing multi-sectoral and functional cooperation.
3.4. Coordinating Body versus Managing or Implementing Agency: There is the risk that a "coordinating
and facilitating body" will overstep its role, become an impediment to urgently needed activity, and attempt
to undertake implementation which is seen as another's jurisdiction. There is a tendency, as experienced
elsewhere, to build in-house capacity rather than look outside, and to "empower" the secretariat instead of
empowering implementing agencies in the ministries, civil society, and the communities. This results in
numerous implementation problems, and turf conflicts. This has been identified as a potential problem
during discussions with the Government. There is agreement that the National HIV/AIDS secretariat staff
will principally focus on advocacy, program preparation and review, program coordination, and monitoring
and evaluation. Disbursement of funds, financial management, and procurement will be contracted out
along with a number of other functions. The NAC will monitor concerns about the division of labor on a
regular basis. MOHS will manage all its SHARP relevant procurement and financial matters through its
existing set up.
3.5. Need to Strengthen the Capacity of Implementing Entities: Based on experience elsewhere there is
need to give much greater prominence to enhancing the capacity of entities at all levels so that they
understand and effectively communicate the nature of the disease, design and implement effective
programs, and are well schooled in program management, procurement, financial management, monitoring
and evaluation procedures. The National HIV/AIDS Secretariat will have specific resources directed at
capacity development.
3.6. Monitoring and Evaluation: This project, as with other MAP efforts, is based on the assumption that
rapid project preparation without extensive ex ante program technical analysis is possible if effective
monitoring and evaluation systems are rapidly established, as a management tool, to guide project
adjustments during the first implementation year onward. This places great reliance on effective monitoring
and evaluation to: a) identify as early as possible what is working, why it is working and how it can be
scaled up and also to identify what is not working and whether it should be discontinued or improved and if
so, how; b) provide estimates of public and community services provided. SHARP will generate and
finance large numbers of public and community services. Such services are notoriously hard to track.
Without effective monitoring, these services will not be captured; c) provide donor partners with an early
warning of issues requiring urgent, effective attention; d) demonstrate whether STI/HIV/AIDS impacts are
declining and how far and in what ways donor-supported activities have contributed to these impacts; and
e) communicate good practices and achievements clearly and convincingly. In short, this project will not be
effectively managed unless sound monitoring and evaluation systems are in place from the outset.
3.7. Additional lessons learned from IDA financed projects in Sierra Leone and Bank activities elsewhere:
Those which guided project development include: (i) the need for continuing high level official, and visible
commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS; (ii) NGOs, CBOs and the private sector must play significant
roles in HIV prevention and care; (iii) an effective HIV/AIDS program must have health sector capacity to
- 20 -



respond to new awareness and increased demand for HIV/AIDS/STIs health-related services; (iv)
Anti-retroviral therapy should not be undertaken without the necessary conditions satisfied; (v) capacity is
extremely limited with many parts of the country inaccessible and without basic services, so therefore
expectations must be in line with such capacity limitations.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
4.1. The Government formally advised the Bank of its commitment to undertake an extraordinary effort to
contain the spread of the virus, and requested a Project Preparation Facility to be able to move quickly to
install the institutional framework to carry out HIV/AIDS activities. It designated a Cabinet
Sub-Committee on HIV/AIDS and a technical working group to oversee forrnulation of the national policy
and management of a strategic planning process, in close collaboration with the UN Theme Group on
HIV/AIDS. The Cabinet has approved the HIV/AIDS National Policy, and the mandates of the National
HIV/AIDS Council and National HIV/AIDS Secretariat. During the transition to the Office of the
President, the Ministry of Development and Economic Planning (MODEP) and the Ministry of Health and
Sanitation, along with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, have served as lead ministries. A
SHARP focal point (MODEP) has been actively working to pursue SHARP preparation efforts.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
5.1. The Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region places HIV/AIDS at the center of the
development agenda for work in the region. For the individual country, but also for neighboring countries
and communities, the curtailment of the spread of the HIV virus is pivotal if human development and
overall development goals are to be achieved. With peace returning and development financing accelerating,
nevertheless if this "hidden" enemy is not conquered, the damage will be devastating to Sierra Leone's
future aspirations. IDA is one of the few UNAIDS partners in a position to make a multi-year commitment
to the long term Sierra Leone effort to avert an HIV/AIDS disaster. HIV/AIDS prevention and care is
cross-sectoral and the Bank has experience in playing a major role in Sierra Leone in demobilization and
reconstruction efforts, in the health sector, as well as in several key sectors such as transportation. With the
Poverty Reduction Strategy exercise in process, the Bank is well positioned to take HIV/AIDS into
account. Further, with its IPAA partners, the Bank has designed HIV/AIDS response programs in other
countries, and in supporting successful programs in West Africa. SHARP will provide the platform and the
resources to supplement, not replace, activities carried out by others.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
A detailed economic analysis on HIV/AIDS was carried out for the first phase of the MAP and applies to
this project. This includes an overall assessment of the impact of HIV/AIDS on economic development and
a cost-benefit analysis of HIV/AIDS interventions. This report highlights the following key findings:
*   HIV/AIDS negatively affects an economy by reducing productivity, domestic savings and overall
economic growth;
*   HIV/AIDS increase the burden on the health budget and risks crowding out other key programs such as
vaccination, the fight against malaria, TB, polio, and malnutrition;
*   care and treatnent of AIDS patients imposes high costs on families and at the same time reduces their
eamings capacity, and;
*   family coping strategies may result in children abandoning school, child labor, and/or the family
- 21 -



reducing other health expenditures below an acceptable minimum.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
As Sierra Leone develops its national institutional capacity there will be efforts to track the
cost-effectiveness of the different interventions planned, as well as monitor the longer term economic
impact of the program through tracer studies of employment and income of HIV positive individuals and
their dependents.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is likely to be small. With the large amount of resources directed at
community and civil society interventions, reliance on NGOs and CBOs and the private sector, the
permanent recurrent costs of the program should be manageable. Civil works (for example, works related
to medical waste management), will be limited and therefore not generate significant operating and
maintenance costs. There will be, however, coverage of operating expenses for NAS operations and those
of the line ministries. During PER or other similar exercises, the effect on the budget will be reviewed.
3. Technical:
a. Project Implementation: The project design incorporates accepted practices for HIV/AIDS responses as
defined by the MAP and by UNAIDS partners. SHARP will continuously tailor such general principles to
the specific Sierra Leonean situation, and will follow best accepted and applicable practices in technical
standards for health infrastructure should it finance such efforts, including the handling of medical
supplies, medical tests, and medical waste to minimize any environmental impact. Line ministries will be
involved in the preparation of components to ensure their consistency with national guidelines prepared by
the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat.
b. Assistance to Refugees: Under this project refugees, retumees, IDPs and host communities will be
eligible beneficiaries for community and civil society initiatives. Also, the Government is participating in
the Mano River Union HIV/AIDS Initiative which is being coordinated by UNAIDS. This is an approach
to bring the three countries and international partners together to reduce HIV/AIDS vulnerability among
displaced populations (refugees, returnees, and IDPs), in displaced populations living in host communities,
for war-affected women and children, as well as the military and peacekeeping forces.
c. Support for HIV/AIDS-related Drugs: MTCT drugs will be supported on an expanding basis as the
necessary preconditions are in place.
d. Condom Provision: In addition to the social marketing channels, the project will support condom
distribution through the public sector as well as free distribution to specific high transmitter groups such as
commercial sex workers, uniformed personnel, and truck drivers.
e. Procurement Procedures: IDA will finance goods, civil works, consultancy services, training, operating
costs and other local activities necessary to implement the project. Procurement for all IDA-financed
activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999), in particular, Section 3.15, including the Bank's Simplified Procurement and Disbursement
Procedures. Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). Procurement performance will be assessed
- 22 -



on an annual basis (in the form of random procurement/physical audits by an extemal agency). In addition
to the formal annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically. UN agencies with
specialized expertise will be eligible as sole source providers.
4. Institutional:
Govemment is committed to fomnally constitute and have regular meetings of the National HIV/AIDS
Council chaired by the President and comprised of public sector and non-public sector representatives.
Further, a National HIV/AIDS Secretariat will support the Council and be located in the Office of the
President. The success of this arrangement will depend on the President's participation, and the effective
collaboration between NAS, the line ministries, NGOs, donor partners and others engaged at the national,
regional, and district levels in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The main entities will be the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS) located in the Office of the President,
the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS), participating line ministries and equivalent govemment
bodies,and the delivery channels for the community and civil society initiatives. Larger community and civil
society initiatives, based on agreement between NAC and NaCSA, will be done by the National
Commission for Social Action, a Social Fund with the requisite experience and staff able to review or
prepare, appraise, and supervise such interventions, within IDA rules and regulations. It is envisioned that
a new mechanism will be brought on line which will be shaped to respond to the particular nature of
HIV/AIDS, utilize decentralized systems to create demand, review, and approve proposals, and supervise
them. With respect to the financial and procurement aspects, the NAS will hire a financial and procurement
agent.
4.2 Project management:
Project sub-component supervision will be regularly conducted by the NAS on behalf of the NAC. It will
organize semi-annual reviews involving all parties in the partnership against HIV/AIDS. These reviews will
focus on progress made in achieving SHARP objectives and constraints encountered in its implementation.
A consolidated yearly financial and progress report will be prepared by NAS for annual meetings of the
NAC, IDA, and contributing SHARP partners. In view of the need to fast track MAP projects and the
nature of the projects themselves, World Bank implementation support and supervision activities will be
more intensive than customary, at least in the first two years. (See Annex 12).
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Discussions were held on the need to design financial management arrangements to assure a timely and
reliable flow of funds to the implementing entities at all levels. With respect to some components and
activities, such as the health component, or where experienced line ministries will be carrying out a ministry
program, or, for the community and civil society initiative, where there is a qualified entity such as the new
social fund under the direction of the National Commission for Social Action, SHARP will rely on existing
accounting units. For other aspects, such as the new community/civil society based initiative mechanism, a
financial management plan will be developed before any funds are disbursed, acceptable to IDA.
- 23 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There is recognition that managing medical waste effectively is an important consideration for this
HIV/AIDS containment project. These risks potentially affect: personnel in hospitals, health centers and
municipalities which handle waste, families whose income is derived from the triage of waste and also the
general public to the extent waste is not disposed of on site and/or safely contained in protected areas. A
national consultant was employed to assess the current situation and prepare a feasible medical waste
management training and management plan. A long term comprehensive plan will address what is needed to
properly dispose of hazardous bio-medical waste. When a draft of this long term, comprehensive medical
waste management plan is available, it will be reviewed by IDA before finalization to assure all key areas
are adequately addressed. A bio-safety training program for health staff who may be involved in testing
and treatment will be implemented over the course of the project with the first calendar year plan ready by
mid-2002. The training program will include instruction on the triage, transport and disposal of such waste.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
See above.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January 31, 2002
See above.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
See above.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
See above.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project will have a very positive impact by raising the awareness level of HIV/AIDS prevention among
the population in general (particularly women and youth) by encouraging safe sex and other risk avoidance
behavior. The community and civil society initiative should have beneficial effect in assisting and
empowering individuals, communities and institutions to deal more effectively with the disease burden by:
i) addressing material needs in HIV/AIDS-affected households; ii) increasing community awareness and
accountability surrounding gender and vulnerable children's issues; iii) addressing critical needs of
PLWHA, including caregivers; and iv) destigmatizatizing PLWHA and others affected by the disease,
especially women and children, who are more likely to be stigmatized and discriminated against.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The preparation process for the SHARP has been highly participatory with extensive consultations with
- 24 -



various potential stakeholders. All major potential stakeholders including NGOs, the University of Sierra
Leone, religious organizations, the private sector, the uniformed services, and health providers were
involved in the design process, preparation of an HIV/AIDS situation analysis, and in drafting the national
HIV/AIDS policy. This will shortly be followed by a broad-based strategic planning process. SHARP is
intimately involved in UNAIDS efforts to carry out a strategic planning process which will also be highly
participatory. Such participatory activities will continue and expand during project execution with the
involvement of a mixed public/non-public sector National HIV/AIDS Council, the engagement of line
ministries in implementing HIV/AIDS plans, involvement of NGOs, CBOs, and the private sector in
implementing community and civil society initiatives. With the objective of having a strong M&E system
the plan will be to have a participatory M&E dialogue as well. In sum, the Government has succeeded in
securing a consensus on SHARP, one that is widely known and accepted, and will have resources available
under SHARP to continue this interactive dialogue.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and other civil society organizations will continue to be engaged in both the formulation of the
National HIV/AIDS strategy and project implementation. They will be provided with capacity development
support and assist communities in the design, implementation and monitoring of community and civil
society initiatives. NGOs are also likely to be involved in KAP surveys, operational research, training of
trainers, and evaluation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The participatory approach used during project preparation will be continued during project
implementation. While regular social impact monitoring to assess the social development aspects will be
done, a more comprehensive beneficiary assessment will be conducted at mid-term and at the end of the
project. Furthermore, the National HIV/AIDS Council (NAC) will provide regular oversight of project
execution to assure that social development outcomes are being addressed, based on NAS progress and
other reporting.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
With PHRD grant resources, an NGO/CBO capacity assessment as well as a social and gender assessment,
were contracted to national consultants. These reports provide a baseline for SHARP. Thereafter, similar
efforts will be undertaken during the life of the project, and until completion, along with other performance
monitoring and evaluation exercises.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, ]BP 4.37)                           CO Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
- 25-



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The highest levels of the Government of Sierra Leone and increasingly the people recognize that HIV/AIDS
is a complex, multi-sectoral problem that requires a long-term, sustained response from Government and
society if the country is to be defended from a further devastating blow to its development.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
SHARP sustainability will depend on the degree to which a coordinated approach and commitment to
addressing HIV/AIDS becomes fully owned and appreciated by the various actors at the national, regional,
and local levels, both within and outside Govermnent. The project is based on an increasing partnership
between Government and community/civil society built on growing trust. Government is also dependent on
the extent to which there is progress in extending access to services throughout Sierra Leone as well as
confidence that political stability will continue to grow and is sustainable.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Unstable political situation which results  H       UNAMSIL, U.K. and others continue to
in new outbreaks of conflict                        substantially support the military aspects of the
peace process, including improvements in the
Sierra Leone Army capacity, democratic
political process is strengthened along with
economic development support from the World
Bank, multi- and bi-lateral agencies
Insufficient HIV/AIDS knowledge and       H         Funds for capacity development made available
absorptive capacity to effectively utilize          early-on for those implementing project
funds                                               activities, including HIV/AIDS awareness,
training, technical skills, program design and
management
Societal denial of the threat of HIV/AIDS  H        Extensive awareness campaigns, President to be
and low priority given to it, or                    the Chairman of the National AIDS Council
alternatively, rising expectations which            (NAC), and Cabinet urged to speak out
are unsatisfied                                     regularly on HIV/AIDS
Refugee populations and internally         H        Close cooperation between Government, UN
displaced persons not reached                       agencies and World Bank in developing
outreach (including the Mano River Union
Initiative or under UN agency auspices).
Regular assessment by NAS of refugee
population inclusion in civil society initiatives.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of cooperation among partners with    S        UJNAIDS Theme Group plays proactive role in
regard to a multi-sectoral approach                 donor community, which results in a
supportive/cooperative role with Government;
semi-annual reviews resolve
execution/coordination issues
- 26 -



Inadequate channels to deliver and          H         Assessment of existing options, including new
manage funds to communities                           efforts, and readiness to finance strengthening of
various staffs
Insufficient implementation, financial, and  S        Assessment of NGOs/CBOs and others provides
supervisory capacity of implementing                  the basis for selection in terms of past
entities                                              experience and performance, with resources
available to strengthen NGO/CBO capacity
Line ministries lack capacity and           S         Resources to line ministries and equivalents will
conmmitment to carry out sector programs              depend on demonstration of interest,
appointment and support for the HIV/AIDS
focal point; execution of an initial core set of
activities, and reporting
NAC and NAS becomes too bureaucratic        S         Commitment to essential core staff only, with
and controlling                                       NAC regularly monitoring NAS role;
contracting out will constrain NAS from
becoming too bureaucratic.
Overall Risk Rating                         H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Conditions of Effectiveness will be minimal to permit rapid progression from Board approval to
effectiveness. These Effectiveness Conditions are:
a) The Borrower has established NAC and the NAS, and has appointed the following key staff
for the NAS, that is, a Director, a Deputy Director, and a Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist, all with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference acceptable to
the Association;
b) The Borrower has adopted the Project Operations Manual and finalized the first calendar
year Project Implementation Plan, satisfactory to IDA;
c) The Borrower has established an accounting and financial system satisfactory to IDA;
d) The Borrower has selected a Financial/Procurement Management Agent;
e) The Borrower has selected an independent auditor, and;
f) The Borrower has finalized a medical waste management training plan for the six months
following effectiveness, satisfactory to IDA, and has undertaken to develop a comprehensive
medical waste management plan.
- 27 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
OL 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
Ol 2. The procurement documents for the first years activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
H 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Ol 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
e,eLOJQ           St e
Richard M. Seifian                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                er.
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
Key Performance         Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Prevent the negative impact of a) By the end of the project,  SHARP regular monitoring  Sustained Government
the spread of HIV epidemic  70% of youth, women,      and evaluation system, as well commitment at highest levels
on development and on the  commercial sex workers,    as surveys                 to enable a multi- sector
level of poverty in Sierra  uniformed services, and                              public and non-public
Leone.                     ex-combatants can cite at least                       response to HIV/AIDS (four
two major modes of                                    elements of MAP eligibility
HIV/AIDS transmission and                             criteria).
at least two methods of
protection;                                           Increasing political and social
stability.
b) by the end of the project,
30% of youth use condoms at                           Refugees, returnees, and
sexual debut, 35% of adults                           internally displaced persons
use condoms use condoms in                            programs are successful.
their last casual sex act, and
50% of adults use condoms in
their last commercial sex act;
c) by the end of 2006, an
appreciable number of sex
workers will have left the
trade and received skills to
establish small micro
enterprises.
-29 -



Key Perforrnance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators    -    .  _._           ._.         Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To slow the spread of      a) By the end of 2006, the use National HIV/AIDS Council  High degree of cooperation
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Sierra of condoms in sexual debut  (NAC) and National     between key public sectors.
Leone, through provision of  and most recent sex act  HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS)
HIV/AIDS and STIs and      between unmarried youth   Reports.                   Relevant public sector
prevention and care.       increases by 50% from 2002                           agencies adopt and implement
levels, as follows: 5% in  NAS Reports               HIV/AIDS strategies/plans.
2002; 20% in 2003; 30% in  KAP Surveys
2004; 40% in 2005; and by                            Implementation capacity of
50% by the end of 2006;    HIV/AIDS sentinel         govemmental,
surveillance reports.      non-govemmental
b) by the end of the project at                      organizations, and the private
least 20 organizations are  Monitoring reports on    sector improves.
providing counseling, care,  condom distribution, line
and support services to   ministry activities, and CCSI  Continuous support of the
PLWHA families as well as  activities.               govemment including line
orphans and vulnerable                               ministries to work in
children;                                            partnership with NGOs,
Independent evaluation     CBOs and the private sector.
c) by the end of 2006, increase reports of community level,
by 20% the number of       divisional, municipal,    Govemment establishes
organizations providing skills ex-combatants and national  flexible, effective coordination
to young mothers/women and HIV/AIDS programs.        of HIV/AIDS interveners.
altemative life skills to sex
workers.
- 30 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives,         Indicators                               gy     Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Institutional capacity in  a) by the end of 2004, the  - Field supervision and
planning, delivery and     National HIV/AIDS Council  project reports, work plans,
monitoring of HIV/AIDS     (NAC) is fully functioning  training reports, monitoring
response interventions     and the HIV/AIDS National  data, baseline surveys, and
through line ministries,   Policy is being implemented  end-term evaluation.
NGOs, CBOs, private sector, through the National     - Sector plans and reports;
communities and the civil  HIV/AIDS Strategy and Plan  - Regular.
society, developed.       of Action.
Regional/provincial reporting.
2. Mechanisms and processes a) by the end of the project, at
of multi-sector response of the least 75% of all line
government developed,     ministries have incorporated
expanded and operational.  HIV/AIDS prevention
activities in their annual work
plans and budget, and have
also the core team in place.
b) by the end of the project at
least 500 line ministry and
NGO staff have been trained
and are active peer educators.
3. Provision of: (i) A    a) by the end of the project at - IEC campaign reports;  Capacity and mobilization to
functioning sentinel      least 12 HIV/AIDS sentinel  - KAP and other surveys;  provide care/support to
surveillance system; (ii)  populations are regularly  - MIS data;              orphans and vulnerable
Provision of VCT services;  surveyed both with regard to  - Reports on drug stock outs;  children improves
(iii) Provision of syndromic  behavioral and biological  - Child Needs Assessments  significantly
approach management of    aspects;
STI's; (iv) Availability of safe
blood for transfusion; (v)  b) by the end of the project  Mid-term and end-term
Provision of care for PLWHA  100% of all functioning  service utilization data
and treatment of 01; (vi)  referral and regional
General accessibility of  hospitals, 80% of all
condoms; (vii) Provision of  functioning district hospitals,
focused interventions geared  and 30% of all functioning
to vulnerable groups; (viii)  health centers provide: a)
Provision of MTCT services;  opportunistic infection
and (ix) Comprehensive waste treatment and care, and b)
management plan developed  improved safety injection
(proposed).               programs;
(c) by the end of the project,
50% of all hospitals and
major health clinics will have
waste management capacity,
as follows: 10% in 2002; 20%
in 2003; 30% in 2004; 40% in
2005; and 50% in 2006;
- 31



d) by end of the project at
least I site will be operating
in every District, providing
HIV/AIDS infected pregnant
women and newborns
provided with
mother-to-child-transmission
prevention services;
e) by end of the project at
least 10 NGOs will be capable
of training actual and
potential sex workers in
altemative skills.
4. Community, civil society,  a) by the end of 2006, at least (see above)    a) Careful choice of project
and private sector initiatives  150 NGOs and CBOs are                        activities (e.g., diverse and
(sub-projects) developed and  preparing and/or     Annual reports of other   independent activities) and
functioning for SHARP     implementing community and programs (such as RRR and  design flexibility allow
activities.               civil society initiatives, as  DDR)                fine-tuning and/or
follows: at least 10 in 2002;                      reallocation of project
50 in 2003; 75 in 2004; 100  Consolidated annual reports  resources as required.
in 2005; and 150 in 2006;  from NAS
b) Continuous support by
b) by the end of 2006, the                         Government including line
annual disbursement                                ministries, to work in
percentage of funds allocated                      partnership with NGOs and
for community and civil                            the private sector.
society has increased to 75%,
as follows: 10% in 2002; 20%                       c) Relevant public sector
in 2003; 40% in 2004; 60% in                       agencies adopt and implement
2005; and 75% in 2006;                             strategies to prevent further
HIV/AIDS transmission.
c) by the end of 2006 CCSI
activities are being                               d) Interest and commitment
implemented in at least two                        from local governments,
refugee areas in Sierra Leone.                     communities and
beneficiaries.
e) Free access to public media
is available.
f) Government's on-going
programs (RRR and DDR)
proving useful in reaching out
to communities.
- 32 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Project Components t      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
1. Capacity Building &    US$2.70 million           Project supervision and  a) Intensive World Bank
Policy Development       ($ 100,000 Government     activity reports.         implementation support, as
contribution)                                      well as regular monitoring
and supervision activities
- National Strategy and                                                      carried out by the World Bank
Action Plan                                                                  Accra Office and the
- SHARP Coordination and                                                     Headquarters staff.
Administration
- Advocacy, Training &
Technical Support
- Assessment, Monitoring &
Evaluation
II. Multi-sector Response for US$2.0 million       Reports to NAS, consolidated b) Line Ministries will meet
Prevention and Care                                for the NAC and the Bank  to develop policies and adopt
strategies based on mutual
Line Ministries, Districts,                                                  agreement with NAC.
rural administrative divisions.
111. Health Sector Responses US$2.8 million        Health information reporting
to HIV/STI Management
Health Ministry and
non-public health providers.
A. Voluntary Counseling and
Testing (VCT)
B. Patient Care Services
C. HIV/STIs service delivery
D. ANC activities, including
ARV therapy to prevent
MTCT
IV. Community and Civil   US$7.80 million          Reports to the NAS
Society Initiatives       ($200,000 non-public
contributions)
Community based activities at
various levels
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
1.1. The proposed project will finance the full spectrum of HIV/AIDS activities including prevention, care,
support, and impact mitigation. A US$15 million, 4 year project is contemplated. It will have four
components: (1) capacity building, policy and program coordination; (2) multi-sector responses to
HIV/AIDS prevention and care; (3) health-sector responses to HIV/AIDS, STI/TB and other opportunistic
infection management, including prevention and care; and (4) community and civil society initiatives
(including communities, NGOs, religious groups and the private sector). These activities will take into
account the existing conditions and Sierra Leonean level of capacity at each administrative structure
(national, regional, district, chiefdoms), recognizing that at present there is reasonable capacity at the
national level as well as at the regional level in some cases, but much less so at district levels.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.70 million
Capacity Building, Policy and Program Coordination
1.1. This component would aim to strengthen Sierra Leone's capacity to cope with the spread of
HIV/AIDS by supporting: (i) the work of the National HIV/AIDS Council (NAC) and Secretariat (NAS);
(ii) the ongoing development of the national HIV/AIDS Strategy and Action Plan and its underpinnings;
(iii) strengthening of public and private institutions in HIV/AIDS prevention and care, and (iv) in refugee,
returnee, IDP and host community activities (See Annex 13). Four sub-components would address the
following areas: (a) the National HIV/AIDS strategy and action plan; (b) SHARP coordination and
administration, (c) advocacy, training, and technical support activities, and (d) assessment, monitoring and
evaluation, operational research and pilot testing, as well as other monitoring and evaluation activities.
(a) The National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Action Plan
1.2. SHARP will support initiatives and activities in the preparation of multi-sectoral plans of action
within the broad objectives of the national HIV/AIDS policy. This will be by provision of necessary
technical assistance and resources to conduct participatory working sessions with various stakeholders
from the public and private sectors on an annual basis. This process will ensure formation of public-private
partnerships towards achievement of common goals set out in the national HIV/AIDS policy.
1.3. The Sierra Leonean situation is further complicated by large refugee populations which are located
beyond its borders in neighboring countries as well as dislocated populations within Sierra Leone. The
Government recognizes these are important populations to address in the national strategy. Cooperation
with neighboring countries in assessing prevalence rates, providing for voluntary testing and counseling,
access to condoms, mother-to-child-transmission interventions, formulating consistent IEC/BCC messages
and other interventions, is a strategic option being explored by Sierra Leone and its neighbors, for mutual
benefit. Following up on two general sub-regional meetings held in 1998 and 1999 between the three Mano
River Union (MRU) countries (Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea), in October, 2001 and February 2002,
HIV/AIDS partners began exploring ways to reduce vulnerability to STI/HIV/AIDS among displaced
populations (refugees, returnees, IDPs), host commnunities, war-affected women and children, the military
and peacekeeping forces. The Technical Consultations on the Mano River Union, held in Abidjan on
February 1-2, 2002, reinforced the view of the various donor partners and the three Governments as to the
need for coordinated HIV/AIDS initiatives, and that the goal of any sub-regional initiative must necessarily
complement and support national programs for the concerned populations.
- 34 -



1.4. Partnerships will be pursued with appropriate UN agencies (such as UNHCR) and NGOs operating in
the neighboring countries in reaching refugee populations. Under the Community and Civil Society
Initiatives component, funding of interventions for refugees outside Sierra Leone will be sought from donor
partners (other than IDA/SHARP), as well as possible grant funding sources for activities such as
IEC/BCC initiatives, MTCT interventions, provision of condoms and care for the refugees living with
HIV/AIDS in those camps or host communities.
(b) SHARP Coordination and Administration
1.5. The project will be placed under the authority of a National HIV/AIDS Council (NAC) in the Office
of the President, which will be in charge of a national HIV/AIDS strategy and plan of action, define broad
priorities of action for the SHARP, approve the key staff of the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS) and
monitor both the performance of the SHARP, as well as national performance in responding to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic, including that of the health sector. The NAC will include high level representatives of
both the public and non-public sectors (roughly in equal numbers), including selected line ministries,
NGOs, religious, women, and youth groups, uniformed services, the private sector, as well as institutions
caring for AIDS victims and subsequently, PLWHA. NAC will report to the President who would officially
be the chairperson, with the vice-chairmanship rotating on an annual basis.
1.6. NAC will be supported by a National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS). NAS will be the administrative,
coordinating and monitoring mechanism for SHARP. NAS will be involved in advocacy and policy
coordination, assist in the preparation of action plans and review of line ministry annual plans, coordinate
HIV/AIDS training, oversee operational research and studies, provide monitoring and evaluation for the
entire SHARP, convene meetings of the NAC, and provide information to it. In the case of sub-regional
programs dealing with refugees, returnees and intemally displaced persons, NAS would perform such
functions as delegated to it by the NAC. NAS will also review and submit to NAC large proposals for
studies on CCSI initiatives.
1.7. More generally, this sub-component will also support the necessary operational costs for SHARP
related to NAC and NAS operations and project coordination, including provision of a capacity
development team in the NAS and a FinanciaVProcurement Management Agent.
(c) Advocacy, Training, and Technical Support Activities
1.8. Advocacy, training (capacity development) and the management of technical support activities will be
coordinated and implemented at the national level by the NAS. IEC/BCC material will be developed and
then adopted for the specific needs of various sectors. Training related to capacity development of major
implementing partners (including NGOs, line ministries and key community/civil society groups) will be
coordinated by the NAS through its capacity development team (CDT). This CDT will develop and execute
a detailed training and institutional strengthening approach for the major implementing partners (for further
discussion, see "Implementation Arrangements" section in this Annex).
(d) Assessment, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
1.9. Assessment of HIV/AIDS prevalence, social and gender aspects, work force, and other aspects will be
expanded under the SHARP to include subjects not covered prior to project effectiveness.
- 35 -



1.10. Monitoring and evaluation will comprise the following sub-activities:
(i) Surveillance
(ii) Epidemiological research
(iii) Financial management, and
(iv) Project management.
1.11. Surveillance will encompass biological and behavioral surveillance. Such activities will be executed
by the ARG-MOHS, in conjunction with NAS. The NACP, which is the predecessor to the new health
sector HIV/AIDS response group in MOHS, has HIV infection data from blood donors and outpatients,
including antenatal clients. However concerns about quality and representativeness have limited
dissemination of findings.
1.12. Further epidemiological research will track STI/HIV/TB infection and disease burden trends and
evaluate interventions among priority groups. In particular, epidemiological research will determine
STI/HIV prevalence among up to 500 female sex workers, a "tripwire" population. Intensive interventions
and continuing STI and HIV surveillance will also be conducted among this cohort, to assess intervention
impact. STI prevalence, etiology and sensitivity studies will be undertaken among sex workers and other
groups.
1.13. Financial management and project management monitoring will focus. on SHARP's contracting and
coordinating capacity and the relevance, quantity, quality and economy of public sector and community
STIVHIV/TB services delivered.
M&E Structure and Management
1.14. SHARP will support two main categories of program/project monitoring and evaluation (a) Program
performance as well as project activity implementation progress (including financial management), and (b)
benefits to project beneficiaries (target groups) through surveillance, epidemiological research and surveys.
The first type of monitoring will be done based on periodic progress and financial reports received from the
line ministries, NaCSA, and IMA linked to subsequent financial disbursements. The latter type (b ) will be
based on the behavioral and biological survey(s) and other relevant indicators on the target beneficiaries of
line ministries, the health ministry and the beneficiaries of the CCSI component.
1. 15. Biological surveillance will be coordinated by the health sector HIV/AIDS response group, which
will replace NACP in the MOHS, assisted by the Central Statistical Office, the Epidemiology Unit and
Medical College of the University of Sierra Leone, with external technical assistance from WHO,
UNAIDS, CDC or Family Health International (FHI is a UNAIDS partner). Behavioral surveillance will
also be coordinated by the health sector HIV/AIDS response group (in close collaboration with NAS) and
contracted to an academic or consulting organization, assisted by the Central Statistical Office and the
University of Sierra Leone's Demography Department. FHI will provide technical assistance, to ensure
surveillance fully incorporates international good practice. Epidemiological research will also be
coordinated by the health sector HIV/AIDS response group, assisted by the Central Statistical Office, the
Epidemiology Unit and the University of Sierra Leone Medical School.
1.16. SHARP will assume a major budget transfer and grant-making role to the public sector, communities
and civil society, supporting potentially hundreds of projects. NAC/NAS is newly constituted and lacks
grant-making systems and procedures but these will be developed in a Community and Civil Societies
Initiative Manual which will address, in particular, grants under $25,000. NAC/NAS requires systems for
- 36 -



identifying epidemiological priorities and soliciting compliant applications, publicizing grants, developing
and publicizing structured, transparent selection procedures, publicizing recipients, monitoring project
perfornance of recipients and communicating achievements. SHARP will provide necessary support to
develop this capacity in NAC and NAS.
1.17. The IMA will establish a comprehensive computerized CCSI sub-projects monitoring system and
maintain all necessary data/information relevant for the progress monitoring. The FPMA will establish a
computerized financial/procurement management system (as per IDA requirements) and maintain all
essential financial information related to each sub-project financed.
Project Component 2 - US$2.00 million
Multi-sector Responses for H1V/AIDS Prevention and Care
2.1. This component will improve the capacity of non-health sector line ministries and other key public
sector entities to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, emphasizing prevention and care. Integrated into their
ongoing operations, this will be achieved through development of ministerial policies (within the national
policy framework), coupled with a two phased action approach. The first phase will be the provision to line
ministry staff and their dependents of HIV/AIDS and STI education, training, condoms, and other
care-related support, to encourage HIV/AIDS and STI avoidance behavior, destigmatize the illness, and
support those infected/affected. The second phase will be for line ministry staff to provide their extemal
clients (e.g. parent teachers associations, farmer associations, women's groups, chiefdoms, village health
committees, street children, commercial sex workers, miners) with information on effective HIV/AIDS and
STI prevention, and ways to access health care facilities, treatment, and care. Line ministries or their
equivalent will have HIV/AIDS focal persons designated to design and carry out policies and action plans,
with support from SHARP in terms of facilities, equipment, and incremental operating costs. These
activities will be done in the context of line ministries working to rebuild their basic infrastructure and
human resources.
2.2. Participating ministries include agriculture, defense, development and economic planning, youth,
education and sports, information and broadcasting, social welfare, gender and children's affairs, and
transport and communications. (As indicated above, for participating ministries, a NAS Line Ministry
Coordinator will assist them in developing and carrying out their action plans.)
2.3. Participating line ministries will initially focus on the goal of HIV/AIDS and STI awareness,
avoidance behavior, destigmatizing the illness, and support for those staff and dependents who are
infected/affected. A core program will be provided by NAS to help shape initial programs. These programs
can be expanded, once the core program is satisfactorily underway. As part of the core program Ministries
would include appointment of a ministerial focal point, provision for training for the focal point and others
in the ministry, transportation for the focal point, access to technical advisory services, HIV/AIDS and
STI/IEC materials, condom distribution channels, and modest support for focal point facilities and office
equipment, and some incremental operating costs, all needed to effectively carry out this effort. Finally, the
success of this component and that of each participating ministry will depend on the degree of commitmnent
and sustained attention by the Ministers themselves and their senior staff.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.80 million
Health Sector Responses to STI/HIV Management
3.1. A strong health system is a foundation for success in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Within the public
sector the health system bears virtually exclusive responsibility for care and treatment, plays the pivotal
- 37 -



role in many preventive activities, and endures the greatest impact on its staff and operations. The Ministry
of Health and Sanitation (MOHS) and more broadly the health community, have special responsibilities for
HIV/AIDS, STI, and other opportunistic infections (including tuberculosis) prevention and management.
This sector therefore warrants a separate component, making provision for prevention, treatment, and care
from a health sector perspective, whether public or private. This component provides the resources to the
health sector to build on and complement the work done by the MOHS under the Integrated Health Sector
Investment Project, as well as other reproductive and communicable disease activities currently performed
or to be financed by the MOHS and its health sector partners. SHARP will provide resources to support
the health sector in this area for approximately three years, at which time resources under the new Health
Sector Reconstruction and Development Project are expected to be available. Under this component, the
MOHS will be able to do the activities described above for the other line ministries. In addition, MOHS
will be able to enhance its repioductive health, TB and opportunistic infection response efforts, with
SHARP funding. The MOHS will not be able to undertake all of the health sector specific tasks needed at
once, nor do it without assistance from other non-public health care providers. MOHS will prioritize which
aspects, where, when and how quickly it can implement and scale up its HIV/AIDS, STI, and TB services,
in the context of its revised National Health Action Plan. Looking towards a more aggressive effort against
HIV/AIDS, the NACP will be restructured, strengthened into the ARG-MOHS.
3.2. This component would encompass: i) improvements in the central laboratory at Connaught Hospital;
ii) the scaling-up of the national sentinel surveillance system and voluntary counseling and testing (VCT)
protocols as well as a significant role in carrying out VCT activities and follow-up; iii) implementation of
syndromic algorithms for diagnostic and case management of sexually transmitted infections (STIs); iv) the
scaling-up of the national blood screening and supply program; v) the strengthening of the national and
other referral hospitals for dealing with HIV/AIDS, STI, and other opportunistic infections including TB;
vi) the procurement of condoms, support for a social marketing program, and a significant role in the
distribution of condoms; vii) the scaling up of activities geared to vulnerable/potentially high transmitter
groups in collaboration with other sector partners; viii) establishment at the primary level of a care (and
possibly treatment) program for people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS; ix) services to prevent
mother-to-child-transmission (MTCT) including counseling on breastfeeding, family planning, maternal
support and drug therapy when combined with VCT, care for HIV positive pregnant women and children;
and x) steps for developing, approving and implementing a medical waste training and prospectively, a
waste management plan. Global experience indicates that while the MOHS can assist with clinical services
for vulnerable groups, NGOs are better at outreach for vulnerable groups such as sex workers, orphans or
vulnerable children, and there are already promising NGO efforts in Sierra Leone. Much of this is
envisioned in the National Health Action Plan and in "scaling up" such efforts, which is fully in keeping
with one of the main purposes of the MAP approach.
3.3. Given the role of the health sector three aspects are highlighted with respect to the health sector. First,
blood supply is important. The stated policy goal of Sierra Leone is that national blood supplies be
controlled and assured as safe. Donor mobilization will be supported under this project, along with funds
for preparation of a plan for national blood transfusion services, one which identifies the necessary
equipment to complement what is being done under existing efforts, what would be needed in terms of
blood bags and reagents, and training of laboratory technicians. The objective would be to ensure that
blood for transfusion and blood products do not transmit STI and HIV. Second, there is need for
specialized training in HIV/AIDS and STI hazardous materials handling and provision of medical supplies
to health workers so as to prevent STI and HIV transmission. Health workers represent a particularly
vulnerable group because of their routine contact with hazardous materials, where they are on the front
line, and need to be confident their personal safety and well-being are taken into account so that they
actively promote testing of patients, care, and support for PLWHA. Related to the safety of both health
- 38 -



workers and the general population is the need for norms and standards for hazardous waste disposal,
appropriate to Sierra Leone, and that these be taken into account at health facilities, along with training of
facility personnel.
3.4. Third, there is need to move effectively in mitigating MTCT of HIV/AIDS. When combined with
voluntary counseling and testing (VCT), MTCT can be dramatically reduced through short, inexpensive
treatment of pregnant women and newborns, accompanied by appropriate health and social services for the
woman and child. One of the key drugs has been offered free of charge for five years to Sub-Saharan
countries which present acceptable proposals. Sierra Leone has already been accepted by the contributing
firm (Boerhinger-Ingelheim) as a beneficiary country on a pilot basis. An expanded program will be
pursued, based on WHO and UNAIDS protocols and recommendations to guide program design and
execution, supported by SHARP financing for the necessary complementary staff training, facilities, and
equipment. As a basic premise, the management of pregnancy in HIV-positive women is considered integral
to the care of women and children. The establishment of VCT sites at antenatal (ANC) centers will reduce
the impact of HIV/AIDS and STI at pregnancy, both in terms of primary prevention of infection and care
of the pregnant woman and her child. In sum, SHARP will support the MTCT program.
3.5. With respect to Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART), however, while this holds the potential to prolong,
improve, and save lives, it is not appropriate for financing in Sierra Leone at this juncture, except to
support a modest pilot effort, coupled with a high degree of monitoring and evaluation. While drug prices
have fallen, serious challenges of sensitivity, toxicity, resistance, sustainability, access, ethics, and equity
must first be addressed. Sierra Leone does not now have the health system infrastructure to deliver such
drugs or sustain long-term patient management. Any prospective decisions in this regard will be made in
conjunction with partners and technical agencies, and considered using the criteria developed in the MAP
II Report (Report No. P7497 AFR), and the points set forth below. An approach to ART will have to
substantially involve PLWHA, and include ethical and equitable guidelines for deciding who is to benefit in
the initial stages. In assessing readiness IDA will look to the adequacy of underlying preventive and basic
care programs, prior country performance in delivering MTCT programs, sustainability of the program,
and the country's assessment of the likely opportunity costs.
3.6. SHARP support for ART will adhere to the technical conditions established by the relevant technical
agencies. WHO, UNAIDS, and the International AIDS Society have developed the following conditions as
essential for the introduction of Anti-Retroviral Therapy in resource-poor settings:
*   Assured access to voluntary HIV counseling and testing, and institutional follow-up and counseling
services for ART to ensure continued psychological support and to enhance adherence to
treatment;
*   Capacity to recognize and appropriately manage common HIV-related illnesses and opportunistic
infections;
*   Reliable laboratory monitoring services including routine hematological and biochemical tests for
the detection of drug toxicity as well as access to facilities for monitoring the immunologic and
virologic parameters of HIV infection;
*   Assurance of an adequate supply of quality drugs, including drugs for the treatment of
opportunistic infections and other HIV-related illnesses;
*   Identification of sufficient resources to pay for treatments on a long termn basis;
*   Information and training on safe and effective use of anti-retroviral drugs for health professionals
in a position to prescribe therapy; and
*   Establishment of reliable regulatory mechanisms against misuse and misappropriation of
anti-retroviral drugs.
- 39 -



Project Component 4 - US$7.80 million
Community and Civil Society Initiatives
4.1. The main objective of the Community and Civil Society Initiative (CCSI) activity is to empower
communities to address HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and support. Grant resources will be provided to
support a broad range of comrnunity, civil society and private sector initiatives. (These include chiefdoms,
villages, religious groups, women's groups, ex-combatants, refugees or internally displaced groups and
their families, youth groups, orphanages, organizations of street children, commercial sex workers,
prisoners and their dependents, unions, businesses, trade associations, sports clubs and the like). CCSI will
provide the resources for a wide spectrum of preventive and care activities at national, regional, and local
levels. A substantial share of SHARP funding will be allocated to these activities, earmarked for
community-based and private sector initiatives. The intention is to pursue a two-track approach: a) large
scale proposals (over $25,000) will be put forward for approval to NAS from NaCSA, which has the staff
and structure able to review, appraise, and supervise community-based projects, and b) second, NAS will
develop a SHARP-specific mechanism which reaches communities with smaller (under $25,000), more
"software" oriented interventions through a new channel (NaCSA is expected to move quickly in executing
eligible CCSI proposals, even before Credit Effectiveness. This prospect warrants inclusion of the
retroactive financing option in the amount of SDR 1.2 million for expenditures after February 14, 2002.)
4.2. The Government has recently approved the establishment of the National Commission for Social
Action which has the necessary elements to qualify for presenting to SHARP, community and civil society
sub-projects for financing. It should be noted that while with ERSF/RRR there were similarities in terms of
target groups, there are important differences with SHARP objectives. ERSF was designed to respond to
preexisting needs (rehabilitation). HIV/AIDS is not a subject about which many communities have strong
past, felt needs. Thus SHARP needs will be a blend of awareness raising to stimulate demand, and then
being positioned to respond to that demand. Depending on the nature, objectives, and management attitudes
of this new Social Fund, HIV/AIDS interventions could fit within its broader package and therefore they
would be positioned to produce community/civil society projects for SHARP review and funding.
4.3. NGOs and community-based organizations (CBOs) are treated as two different entities in Sierra
Leone and regulated by two different ministries. Rules and regulations for NGOs have been prepared and
approved. Registration of NGOs is currently in process. An assessment of NGO/CBO capacity indicates
there is a great deal of work to be done in raising HIV/AIDS awareness and knowledge of what assistance
might be rendered before an intensive CCSI intervention program can be fully operational. As indicated,
NAS will have a capacity development team to work with these groups to train them and provide guidance
thereafter. What is clear is that there is a large, interested, active and growing international and national
NGO/CBO community who want to support a wide range of activities, with varying levels of institutional
experience, resources, and objectives.
Implementation Arrangements
(a) Project Coordination and Management (Component 1)
1.1. SHARP will be implemented over a four year period. The project will be placed under the authority of
a National HIV/AIDS Council (NAC) located in the Office of the President, which will be in charge of the
National HIV/AIDS Strategy and Plan of Action, define broad priorities of action for the SHARP, approve
the key staff of the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS) and monitor both the performance of the
SHARP, as well as national performance in responding to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, including that of the
-40 -



health sector. The NAC will include high level representatives of both the public and non-public sectors
(roughly in equal numbers), including selected line ministries, NGOs, religious, women, and youth groups,
uniformed services, as well as institutions caring for AIDS victims and subsequently, PLWHA. NAC will
report to the President who would officially be the chairperson, with the vice-chairmanship rotating on an
annual basis.
1.2. NAC will be supported by a National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS). NAS will be the administrative,
coordinating and supervisory/monitoring mechanism for SHARP. NAS will be involved in advocacy and
policy coordination, oversee the new CCSI channel, assist in the preparation of multisectoral action plans
and review of line ministry annual plans, coordinate 11/AIDS training, oversee operational research and
studies, provide monitoring and evaluation for the entire SHARP, convene meetings of the NAC, and
provide information to it. In the case of sub-regional programs to deal with refugees, retumees and
internally displaced persons (for example, any Mano River Union HIV/AIDS Initiative), NAS would
perform such functions as delegated to it by the NAC focusing on coordinating and facilitating such
activities through communication and partnership with neighboring countries to foster greater collaboration
in targeting these vulnerable groups. Above a specified amount and for exceptional circumstances NAS
would also review, prepare technical recommendations, and present such proposals to NAC for approval.
1.3. NAS will have a core professional staff of seven to nine people, comprised of a Director and Deputy
Director (in charge of the CCSI component), with specialists in planning, monitoring and evaluation,
capacity development (training), IEC/BCC coordination, line ministry coordination. (Procurement and
financial management will be provided by the FPMA.) A sound financial management system will be
established for the SHARP with the objective of providing accurate and timely information regarding
resources and expenditures. The financial management system will include accounting, project management
reporting (financial and procurement reporting) and auditing elements.
1.4. With respect to capacity development, a Capacity Development Team (CDT) in NAS will be
established. CDT will have one qualified capacity development specialist with 2-3 supporting staff. CDT's
task will be to develop relevant training and capacity building materials for the various target groups and/or
CCSI applicants, and conduct/coordinate training and capacity development programs. The CDT will be
responsible for planning and sensitizing prospective, potential CCSI candidates who do not meet initially
the eligibility criteria for applying for CCSI funds. In the case of capacity development of smaller civil
society groups and communities, the CDT could sub-contract the sensitization/training to NGOs, following
IDA procurement rules. CDT will be a central set up, and will manage its tasks from within NAS.
1.5. With respect to health-sector activities, the NAS will look to the MOHS to implement its programs,
receiving from the MOHS regular reporting on its progress. The existing National AIDS Control
Programme (NACP) will become the Health Sector HIV/AIDS Response Group (ARG-MOHS) under the
Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS), and will have a key role in health sector-HIV/AIDS/STI/TB
and other opportunistic infection activities. This new "Group" will require additional financial support
which SHARP will substantially contribute. NAS will have close contact with ARG-MOHS to involve it in
all major SHARP decisions. Health sector HIV/AIDS activities will be carried out by the MOHS using and
building on existing institutional, technical, administrative, and logistical capacity. MOHS will operate a
separate Special Account for their agreed work program. MOHS will be responsible for managing its
health program finances and procurement matters, utilizing its existing administrative capacity under the
Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP).
1.6. Non-health line ministries will receive funds to carry out sector HIV/AIDS programs to be supervised
by their designated focal points. They will utilize their existing institutional capacity to supervise, manage
- 41 -



resources, and report to NAS on activities. These programs will start with core activities and expand to
more open-ended menus of activities as the line ministries demonstrate capacity. Financial and relevant
procurement management for the line ministries will be done by the individual ministries which will have
their own local bank account, based on the approved annual work plans.
1.7. NAC and NaCSA will sign a MOU to define the obligations of each party with respect to the CCSI
sub-projects including disbursement modalities. A draft MOU will be included in the PIP.
1.8. NAS will outsource two key responsibilities:
(i) For processing of CCSI applications under $25,000, an Intervention Management Agent (IMA),
and
(ii) A financial and procurement management agent (FPMA) who will handle financial and
procurement matters.
1.9. The IMA and FPMA will be hired under two independent contracts entered into with sound
non-public entities, intemationally experienced in managing projects of a similar nature. NAS will advertise
and select these entities prior to Credit Effectiveness.
1.10. The Intervention Management Agent (IMA), will be responsible (under a contract with NAC/NAS)
to receive small scale (roughly below or around US$25,000) applications from CCSI applicants, appraise
them per established guidelines related to SHARP objectives and the National HIV/AIDS Policy and
strategy, and in conjunction with NAS, approve the applications for funding. IMA will be responsible for
applying NAS eligibility criteria. It will refer applicants who do not meet CCSI eligibility to the CDT for
any necessary capacity building needs. CCSI proposals will be technically appraised and approved by the
IMA on a NAS "non-objection" basis. Proposals that are approved will be forwarded.by the IMA to the
FPMA for disbursement and procurement. IMA will also be responsible for field monitoring of ongoing
CCSI sub-projects and be able to sub-contract NGOs for field supervision of such sub-projects, if needed.
The IMA will have its main office/key personnel in Freetown co-located with NAS. Staff would include a
manager, 2-3 persons as proposal evaluators, possibly a financial person to look into the financial side of
CCSI proposals, 2-3 secretarial staff to receive proposals and maintain a sub-projects database, and a 2-3
drivers. As the demand for CCSI projects increase, IMA will establish its outposts at appropriate regions
with a very small staff who would essentially act as proposal receiving units, applying only basic eligibility
criteria. All proposal review will be done at the central office in the first or two years of SHARP. As
district/regional HIV/AIDS committees are established, IMA will work with these committees in processing
the proposals and building capacity for its longer term role.
1.11. NAS will contract with an independent financial/procurement management agent (FPMA) to provide
assistance in managing project funds and financial/procurement administration, with at least one highly
qualified, representative for financial management and an equally qualified representative for procurement
management, both located in NAS offices. NAS will provide the necessary support staff. The FPMA will
also review financial reports submitted to NAS, help train staff, and serve as an intemal auditor.
Depending on the delivery channel for community and civil society initiatives, the FPMA would either be
directly involved in administration of these funds or have access to the records of the financing channels
(described below). This would affect the size of FPMA staff involved in SHARP. In any case these funds
would be used in accordance with a detailed project operations manual that would be applicable to all
participants, and NAS/SHARP would provide basic training in mobilization, the application process,
financial management, and procurement procedures. FPMA is not envisioned as a huge setup outside the
NAS, but rather a qualified entity, selected through IDA procurement process, who will provide "backroom
- 42 -



support" to the one qualified financial management specialist and one procurement management specialist
who sit in NAS. (NAS will provide the necessary support staff for these attached specialists to manage
their responsibilities.) NAS will procure an IDA approved financial and procurement management software
for SHARP, which would be maintained by the FPMA representatives. The FPMA will be responsible for
their two representatives, monitor their performance, provide necessary assistance/advise to NAS, and
conduct internal audit of the accounts.
1.12. Following presents a schematic of SHARP institutional arrangements.
FTechnical Sub-Committee  Advis  National HIV/AIDS
on HIV/AIDS                Council (NAC)
.... . .............................  . ..
National HlVIAIDS        SAl
Financial and   Contract    Seearioat H/AIDS)
Procurement Aqent              Secretanat (NAS) 
SA\, SA2SpecalAccounSA2
-Dintract          / Resour acentsR
1National Commassion t   Intervention informat           Line Ministries  (   sine  Health and
forSocial Action  ( |    ManagementsAgent  Ad tee ae ft  tege o           Sanitatian (ARG) (
US$25 000 or        US$25 000 or       ' c               * o               .
more                less       poe     (C                 aD  ( 
beneficiaries (target .oups) throughsurveillancemintemal rnd Extema y s.
Trained NGO  ntpromedels v ifaDarion/dtawllbereeget g ro   (i t
|Mobilize3d Civill
CSI Applications  |Society Groupsl
\a Capacity Development Team is located in the NAS
\b One Financial and one Procurement SpeciaGst from FPMA are located in the NAS
SAl, SA2: Special Accounts
______- Disbursements
Arrangements for Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 13. There are three sources of informnation management/moinitoring/evaluation (1) line ministries (2) the
health ministry, and (3) CCSI sub-projects. And, there are two categories of information/data, namely (a)
component/project activity irmplementation progress (including financial), and (b) benefits to project
beneficiaries (target groups) through surveillance and epidemiological research and surveys.
1. 14. Project activity-related implementation progress information/data will be received from: (i) the
participating line ministries specifically reporting progress on each of their planned activitytsub-activity;
(ii) the health ministry would provide a similar progress report to NAS, relevant to their SHARP-financed
- 43 -



activities; and (iii) the IMA and CDT would provide a consolidated report on the number of sub-projects
and their implementation status. This will be achieved using a prescribed and structured reporting format.
The M&E Specialist in NAS will consolidate and produce periodic reports for NAC. If needed, NAS will
hire technical assistance in the preparation of the progress reports.
1.15. Project beneficiary related information/data on the behavioral change, use/demand of condoms, and
other relevant indicators would be collected on the target groups (beneficiaries) by (a) the line ministries,
(b) the health ministry on all health specific indicators (surveillance - biological and behavioral), clinical;
and (c) the IMA on the changes in behavior/attitude of the sub-sector beneficiaries and on other relevant
indicators. This would be done in the form of periodic survey(s). This task will be contracted to appropriate
entities such as the Central Statistical Office, the Epidemiology Unit and the University of Sierra Leone
Medical School, with extemal support from WHO, UNAIDS, and CDC.
Arrangements for Financial Disbursements
1.16. There will be two special accounts under the project. One will be operated by NAS (FPMA). Line
ministries will submit their requests for disbursement along with up to date financial statements and
receipts attached to a physical progress report to NAS. NAS will review the request considering the
progress made so far (the line ministry coordinator), and forward the request for the release of subsequent
funds to FPMA representative (sitting in NAS). The line ministries will operate local currency accounts.
They will simply submit the request for payment on a prescribed form for one activity at a time, get funds
(in phases), implement activities, submit the expense report, and get on with the next activity.
1. 17. The second special account will be operated by the Ministry of Health and Sanitation using its
capability under the ongoing IDA financed Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP). Therefore,
the FPMA will not manage the health-sector component finances/procurement. However, NAS will receive
financial statements from the IHSIP finance unit on the details of expenses.
Progress reporl&exp   IDA           Progaess report & exp
stat(ments   ll                     statemenits
urse nt
NAS and
FPMA       ------ _
MOHS Special             NAS Special
Account 2               Accountl                       x
l                               1~~~~~~~~~~~~Ie
Line Ministry Local  ---- |
currency aouont s
-44 -



1.18. IMA will appraise small scale (under US$25,000) CCSI applications. Qualified proposals will
receive funds from NAS (FPMA). An initial amount of about 20% will be made into an applicants account
depending on the nature of the proposal. An applicant's account will subsequently be replenished based on
a detailed progress report including a financial statement along with all necessary receipts and a request for
replenishment. IMA will check the progress report, endorse the request for next payment, and forward it to
NAS (FPMA). FPMA will then disburse the requested amount, but not to exceed 20% of the total proposal
amount at any time. IMA will undertake necessary sub-project monitoring activity to check the progress of
a sub-projects through its own staff or through a sub-contractor depending on the size, scope and
geographical coverage of a sub-project.
(b) Arrangements for the Multi-Sectoral Response (Component 2)
2.1. Participating line ministries will appoint/nominate a full-time focal point for SHARP supported by an
HIV/AIDS management team. The focal point will be responsible for the overall implementation of the line
ministry plan, preparation of annual work plans (with support from NAS) as well as monitoring and
supervision of the field work. The sectoral management team will participate in the development of the
annual work plan and follow-up on the implementation progress of the plan. Both the focal point and the
team members will be trained by NAS (CDT).
2.2. NAS staff will include a "Line Ministry Coordinator" to assist participating ministries in developing
and carrying out their action plans. S/he will conduct at least a monthly meeting with every line ministry to
follow-up on the implementation progress and facilitate in resolving implementation issues.
2.3. Each focal point office will be supported with office renovation, office equipment, transportation and
incremental operational costs. Provision of sector specific technical assistance will be made under the
project for periodic guidance and help.
(c) Arrangements for the Health-Sector Response (Component 3)
3.1. The health-sector response component will be managed by the ARG-MOHS. SHARP will provide
necessary support including logistical support to strengthen the management capacity of ARG-MOHS.
ARG-MOHS will prepare a detailed annual work plan with specific targets and submit it to NAC/NAS on
an annual basis. MOHS will open a bank account to receive SHARP funding. It will manage the finances
and relevant procurement per IDA requirements through its existing arrangements for the IDA financed
Integrated Health Sector Investment Project.
(d) Arrangements for the Community and Civil Society Initiatives (Component 4)
Estimates for the number of sub-projects
4.1. To establish a measure of magnitude for component 4, it was assumed that about 60% of CCSI
sub-projects may be considered to be about US$5,000 on average, and 40% may be about US$50,000 on
average (hypothetically). Further it is assumed that the first year activities will be substantially lower than
the subsequent 3 years of implementation (year 1: 50-smallU4-large; compared to year 3: 290
small/20-large). Based on this assumption, the following table presents an estimation of the number of
CCSI sub-projects, on average, per region (no specific projections were made separate refugee, returnee,
IDP and host community activities).
- 45 -



Indicative Average Number of CCSI Subprojects
Region     Percentage  Estimated SHARP  Number of USD5,000   Number of USD50,000
Population'  allocation (USD)  Subprojects (on     SubproJects (on
average) - 60% of total  average) 4- 40% of total
Eastem           26.4        2059200             247                   16
Northem          35.4         2761200             331                  22
Western          15.9         1240200             149                  10
Southern         22.3         1739400             209                  14
TOTAL         100%       7 800 000             936                  62
* Source: Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
** Including attributed amountfor the overall cost of Subproject appraisal, supervision and monitoring
4.2. The CCSI component will be phased over the course of the project life. Specifically: i) as to
geographic coverage, CCSI will expand as Government and NGO services expand within Sierra Leone,
including the coverage of refugees, returnees, IDPs and host communities, ii) as to CCSI project delivery
channels, while in the first project year will rely on an existing pre-approved, community outreach channel,
a new system (IMA) is to be added subsequently; and iii) as to grant size, increasingly the effort would be
to "scale down" in order to reach smaller groups with smaller grants.
4.3. Each CCSI sub-project will have a field supervision modality defined as it is being appraised by IMA
or NaCSA, appropriate to the nature of the particular CCSI sub-project. The objective will be have
appropriate, simple contractual arrangements that provide reasonable accountability while not discouraging
small non-traditional applications. These modalities may include (a) existing NaCSA district team, (b)
existing government structure, (c) in-house capacity of NAS, and (d) contract with private sector entity; or
any combination thereof.
4.4. The size of any single activity is not expected to be large (with larger activities in the order of US
$100,000. For national, multi-community and refugee/refugee-related approaches, these amounts may be
significantly higher but will require NAC approval). Prevention activities will be designed to reduce high
risk behavior and exposure to risk, to reduce the vulnerability of those who are unaware of their risk or
cannot protect themselves, to "de-stigmatize" the disease so as to increase access to prevention and care,
and provide support to those infected or affected. For families affected by HIV/AIDS, these resources
could reduce the impact of their plight by financing services to provide care for any person living with the
virus, but especially for HIV/AIDS symptomatic persons and their dependents, for orphans, and for income
generating activities. For PLWHA, orphans and vulnerable children, the provision of social, spiritual
support, and financial would also be envisioned. While the standards of (home-)care of PLWHA will be
developed by the health sector, the care will be done by grassroots organizations (CBOs). They must be
given the necessary tools to do so, which may include appropriate drugs.
4.5. Activities Eligiblefor Funding. Eligible activities will be defined in a Community and Civil Society
Initiatives Manual satisfactory to IDA. Preliminary NaCSA (large scale) concepts which could be
considered, include a) the catalytic funding of associations such as trade unions, contractors, to promote
greater HIV/AIDS awareness and behavior change, as well as similar efforts for NGOs who implement
NaCSA projects by having them add an HIV/AIDS component to their activities; and b) targeted funding to
reach specific groups such as support to HIV/AIDS infected victims, support to released Sierra Leone
-46-



Army soldiers who tested positive for HIV, infected mothers in order to prevent transmission (acting
through qualified NGOs), and supporting street children who represent a high risk group. The basic
premise is that if a qualified applicant puts forward a proposal consistent with SHARP goals, it would be
presumed to be eligible for financing. Activities would inter alia address the following areas: (i)
information education and communication/behavioral change communications (IEC/BCC) campaigns; (ii)
support to high-risk groups such as commercial sex workers and vulnerable groups subject to sexual abuse
and discrimination; (iii) youth-related activities; (iv) activities which support orphans and other vulnerable
children, including street children; (v) assistance to women, such as counseling for various interventions to
prevent MTCT, including infant feeding support; (vi) condom supply and dissemination; (vii) voluntary
testing, counseling, and management of opportunistic infections; (viii) assistance to sub-project partners in
management, supervision and beneficiary assessment; (ix) literacy programs with reproductive health
component; and (x) care provided by traditional healers. (This is an "illustrative" list which is not intended
to limit the scope of activities that may become eligible for funding under this component).
Role of Regional, District and Chiefdom Structures
1.1. During the first two years of the project, SHARP will focus on institution development and capacity
building at the national level and of NGOs and other key-implementing partners. As the project succeeds in
delivering its objectives, regional/district level HIV/AIDS committees would be formed gradually which
will work with the IMA in the sub-project appraisal process.
Implementation Strategy
1.1. Considering the existing capacity of various entities SHARP will adopt a 'phased' approach for the
implementation of its objectives/components.
1.2. Phase 1 is the duration of the PPF (November 2001 to July 2002). In this phase, the National
HIV/AIDS Council and its Secretariat will be established with proper staffing and key activities related to
the national policy, strategy planning process, and plans of action, will be undertaken. Essential capacity
building (sensitization) activities for the line ministries and NGOs will be carried out. The outcome of this
phase will be: (a) NAC and NAS establishment with equipment, staffing and other key aspects sorted out;
(b) NAS staff, the participating line ministry focal points and respective ministerial HIV/AIDS team, key
NGOs and the representatives of community and civil society organizations trained/sensitized on the
national policy and SHARP objectives and activities, (c) the Capacity Development Team will be fully
functioning; and (d) an Intervention Management Agent recruited. Specific activities in this phase will
include:
a) Participatory dialogue with various stakeholders for the finalization of the Strategic Plan on
HIV/AIDS;
b) National HIV/AIDS Secretariat staff recruited (based on agreed TORs);
c) Commitment from all participating line ministries to allocate a full-time focal point for
implementing SHARP activities and establishment of an intra-ministry HIV/AIDS management team;
d) Sensitization of various stakeholders on the national policy and strategic plan (including NAS
staff, the line ministries focal points, key NGOs as well as the UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS);
e) Update and finalization of line ministry plans within the national policy framework;
f) Transition of SHARP preparation responsibilities from MODEP to NAS (when staffed);
g) TORs for the recruitment of FMPA and IMA approved by NAS/World Bank;
h) Project Implementation Plan is finalized (including cost details);
i) Procurement plan for the first year of the project prepared with all relevant bidding documents with
- 47 -



the Bank no-objections;
j) Advertisement for the recruitment of FPMA and IMA; and
k) Project is declared effective.
1.3. Phase 2 is the first 12-18 months after Credit Effectiveness, during which key institutions have
been established and immediate target groups will be identified (for example the internal targets of line
ministries). For CCSI activities, this phase involve mostly larger initiatives. The outcome of this phase
would be (a) a fully functional Capacity Development Team in NAS, (b) a fully functional CCSI
Intervention Management Agent, (c) a training curriculum developed for the sensitization/mobilization of
NGOs/CBOs and other community/civil society groups; (d) line ministries targeting their intemal targets,
which include their staff and their dependents, (e) NAS financing community based initiatives, and (f)
refugees, returnees and internally displaced persons are targeted for assistance.
Specific activities in this phase will include:
a) Establishment of FPMA and IMA offices (and possibly sub-national units), depending on the pace
of CCSI demand;
b) Preparation of capacity development training materials for the mobilization of the applicants for
the CCSI component;
c) Capacity building:
*   Line Ministries identify and refer their internal target groups to CDT for sensitization;
* NAS identifies NGOs to be trained by CDT;
*   CDT carries out capacity development activities of potential CCSI applicants, if needed;
d) Community projects started by NGOs, CBOs and other community and civil society groups/
organizations;
e) Participating line ministry staff sensitized to undertake initiatives to adopt the national policy
within their ministry; and
f) Participating line ministries begin focusing on their external target groups.
1.4. Phase 3 is the full-fledged implementation of all project components by all involved parties.
- 48 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
Local       Foreign      --Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million   US $million
0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                       11.44         2.34        13.78
Physical Contingencies                                   0.24          0.13         0.37
Price Contingencies                                       1.05         0.10         1.15
Total Project Costs              12.73         2.57         15.30
Total Financing Required              12.73         2.57         15.30
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million   US $million
Goods                                                       0.25          0.95          1.20
Works                                                       0.09          0.01          0.10
Consultant Services and Training                            3.38          1.87          5.25
Operational Costs                                           0.55          0.00          0.55
CCSI Subprojects                                            6.80          0.00          6.80
Unallocated                                                 1.40          0.00          1.40
Total Project CostsI     12.47          2.83        15.30
Total Financing Required     12.47           2.83        15.30
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 15.3 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 98.04% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-49 -



Annex 4 Economic Summary
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
The "Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS" contained in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa
Region (MAP) Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 20727 AFR, Annex 5) and the Second
Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP2) (APL) for the Africa Region (Report No. P7497 AFR),
provides the economic justification for the SHARP. As it indicates, HIV/AIDS undermines the three major
determinants of economic growth, namely physical, human, and social capital. Due to its long incubation
period (7-10 years), the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic is likely to be drawn over time with the rate of
growth of physical and human capital and the efficiency of social capital declining slowly in parallel with
the maturing of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Over time, the behavior of GDP would reflect a similar gradual
downward reduction of the rate of growth (or increased rate of contraction), rather than a sudden fall in
GDP per capita.
With its history of civil strife, weakened economy, and lack of data for the entire country (now changing
with the emergence of a peace environment), and given what is known in neighboring countries and
countries in like circumstances, Sierra Leone represents the classic case of a country in which the rapid
spread of the virus is likely. Poverty, conflicts, migrant populations, disintegration of social norms, high
levels of sexually transmitted infections and opportunistic infections, inequality, gender inequality, are all
part of the mosaic. Once HIV levels reach around 5%, the infection spreads exponentially with the
prevalence rate sometimes increasing by 50% every year. Should the epidemic not be checked it will
prevent an increasing share of the population from participating in the economy, resulting in reduction in
economic growth and an increase in poverty, thereby accelerating the vicious cycle.
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
Years Ending
2006
L-..VIPLEMENTATIOtNPERIOD            .- :-
TtYear alYFanancin             1 Year 4      Year 5    Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.0        4.1       4.3        3.5       0.4        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.2        0.3       0.3        0.1       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          2.1        4.3       4.6        3.8       0.5        0.0      0.0
PTotal Financing             2.1        4.3        4.6       3.8        0.5       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   2.1       4.2        4.5       3.6        0.6       0.0       0.0
Government                 0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.1        0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     2.2        4.3       4.6        3.6       0.6       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
References are to calendar years. The number of months for financing are:
Year 1       6 months (plus the period prior to Effectiveness during which PPF resources
were available)
Year 2       12 months
Year 3       12 months
Year 4       12 months
Year 5       6 months
Totals may not tally due to rounding.
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SIERRA LEONE: HIVIAIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement Environment
1. The World Bank has not conducted a Country Procurement Assessment Report or a Country Portfolio
Assessment for Sierra Leone. The conflict that has gripped the country over the last ten years has eroded
the effectiveness of public sector management and destroyed the efficiency of public institutions, including
public procurement practices. However the Government with the assistance of private firms has conducted
some studies on public procurement practices. The current procurement practices for goods, works and
services as described in the Finance Act 1963 are deficient and outdated to meet the country's modem
needs. Efficient public procurement systems are necessary to check against corruption and are means of
ensuring value for money, in addition to responding to demands of a democratic culture that use of public
funds is explained to the people. The studies cite (i) lack of a comprehensive legal framework, (ii) lack of a
uniform and codified procurement procedures and regulations, (iii) weak capacity of procurement staff, and
(iv) loose institutional and organizational arrangements for collective decision making in awarding of
contracts, as major factors contributing to weaknesses in the public procurement practices.
2. From review of procurement practices in the on-going Bank-financed projects, Bank staff have
identified unacceptable features, which are (i) extensive use of sole source method for selection of
consultants, (ii) extensive and repetitive use of shopping procedures, often including same firms, (iii)
unclear procedures for opening of bids and criteria for bid evaluation and contract award, (iv) post contract
negotiations, (v) mandatory use of the state insurance company for goods contracts, and (vi)
over-centralization of procurement in the Central Tender Board (CTB). The Central Tender Board has
made itself responsible for advertising for bids, opening bids, evaluating bids and consequently awarding
contracts. This should be the responsibility of the procuring entities as the CTB should only be adjudicating
on proposed contract awards referred to it by procuring entities. The Central Tender Board is overloaded
and overwhelmed by the work it has to do. Government Ministries are already complaining about the
inefficiency at CTB. Nevertheless Procurement is not centralized as procurement processing for some
public agencies, donor-financed projects and for government agencies in the Regions and Districts is not
carried out by the CTB. For Donor-financed projects, procuring entities use both World Bank and other
donor procurement guidelines alongside government and other procurement practices. Such a situation
exposes the country to potential problems when the country is required to depend on its own laws for and
tendering processes. The studies and the Bank recommended procurement reforms. Procurement under this
project will not be processed by CTB; contract awards above a defined threshold could be cleared with
CTB, if Government so insists.
3. Sierra Leone's procurement procedures and regulations are scattered in various Ministry of Finance
circulars, which are often not clear, contradictory and subject to misinterpretations. The Government has
realized there is a need for the country to review and reform its public procurement practices. The World
Bank has agreed to support public procurement reforms with funds from the Transport Sector Project. The
Committee will select consultants to prepare (in consultation with stakeholders in public and private
sectors) a Procurement Reforms Proposal for submission to Government by possibly last quarter of 2002.
It is expected that a new procurement code and law would be implemented in 2003. Meantime for
Bank-financed projects, procurement procedures have to be described in a Project Operations Manual
- 52 -



(POM), for this project.
4. In the absence of a national procurement code, procurement procedures to be followed for this project
would be described in the Project Operations Manual (POM for SHARP). A sample procurement
procedures manual has been provided by the Bank for use in preparing the procedures. The procedures
would be used by the NAS and its agencies, participating Ministries and CCSI Applicants. The
procurement procedures in the POM would be amended at the appropriate time to be consistent the new
national code. These procedures would be finalized by effectiveness as part of the POM.
Use of Bank Guidelines
5. Contracts for works, goods and Consulting services to be financed under the project would be procured
in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and
as revised in January and August 1996, September.1997 and January 1999. Consultants will be selected in
accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
January 1997 and as revised September 1997 and January 1999. National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures will include: (a) an explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b)
national advertising with public bid opening; (c) award to the lowest evaluated responsive and qualified
bidder and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from participation in NCB.
6. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for ICB (and with appropriate
amendments for all NCB) for goods. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) would be used
for all consulting assignments. Less competitive bidding and selection procedures should not be used as an
expedient to by-pass more competitive methods. Fractioning of large procurements into smaller ones should
not be done to allow use of less competitive methods. The detailed procedures to be followed will be
described in the PIM. Domestic preference will be allowed for ICB contracts.
Advertising
7. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN Development
Business as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show
all outstanding ICB packages and all consulting services estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB procedures
and for consultant contracts with an estimated cost of USD 100,000 or more to obtain expressions of
interest (EOI) prior to the preparation of the shortlist. SPNs will as (a minimum) be published in a
newspaper of wide national circulation. In addition, consultant contracts estimated to cost USD 200,000 or
more will be advertised in Development Business. Sufficient time would be allowed (not less than 30 days)
for NCB and for EOI to allow candidates adequate time to obtain documents and respond appropriately.
Procurement Capacity
8. As described in paragraphs 1-4 above, procurement procedures under the project would described in
detail in the POM, which must be completed prior to effectiveness. Procurement will be carried out by
NAS, Participating Ministries and CCSI Applicants. There is no procurement capacity in NAS to be
assessed; it would be created specifically for the project and be in place before effectiveness. The project
allows a firm to be employed by NAS to carry out procurement and financial management under the
project. Procurement capacity of participating Ministries is already described to be very weak, an
assessment has been done and the summary assessment is attached and a copy sent to the Bank's Regional
Procurement Advisor (RPA) for review. The summary of findings of the capacity assessment report
- 53 -



indicate "a high risk" for this project. However, to remove this risk, the Project Operations Manual will
indicate the capacity required in each implementing agency, any shortfalls and an indication of how the
Government would address the shortfalls to ensure the project implementation is not impaired. In addition,
NAS through its contracted firm for procurement and financial management would assist and ensure that
participating ministries and CCSI Applicants comply with the procedures in the POM.
Procurement Plans
9. The NAS will prepare its Global Procurement Plan for the whole project period and subsequent annual
procurement plans would be prepared as part of the NAS annual work plans/budget. On a yearly basis
NAS procurement plans would be finalized and agreed with IDA and incorporated into the PIP.
Participating ministries will be expected to submit their procurement plans together with their annual work
plans/budget which would be submitted to NAS at the beginning of each year as part of their request for
financing. CCSI Applicants will indicate their procurement plans on each subproject proposal. Two months
prior to the start of each subsequent fiscal year, NAS will submit up-dated versions of the Global
Procurement Plan and the annual Procurement Plan in respect of the following year. Each quarter the
participating ministries will submit a procurement monitoring report to NAS as part of the Finanical
Monitoring Report (FMR). The report would indicate how each contract on the ministries procurement
plan progressed. The POM will have sample procurement formats.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
10. Procurement of works and goods and selection of consultants, including procurement planning, will be
the responsibility of NAS (including its designated agencies), participating ministries and CCSI Applicants
as the case may be. NAS will be responsible for coordinating implementation, including monitoring
compliance with the procedures.
11. Community contracting; the project will finance some activities which may involve decision and
participation of communities. In these cases, NAS (including its designated agencies), the participating
ministries and CCSI Applicants will assist Communities to play their respective roles. "Community
Participation in Procurement" will be allowed under CCSI subprojects and other community-based
activities.
Scope of Procurement and Procurement Methods
12. Works (USD 100,000): Contracts for civil works for NAS will involve construction of a number
waste disposal incinerators and minor works or repairs of offices, stores/sheds, or services. These small
contracts expected to cost less than USD 50,000 would be procured under lump sum fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations/bids from not less than three qualified contractors. The invitation shall
include a detailed description of the works, basic specifications, the required completion date, a simple
form of agreement (sample to be included in the POM) and relevant drawings (where applicable). In all
cases the award of contract shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price for the required
work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
13. Goods (USD 1.26 million): The project would finance vehicles (for NAS and the Ministry of Health
and Sanitation), office equipment, furniture, computers (including computers for use by participating
Ministries), IEC/BCC materials, and miscellaneous items of supplies. Goods for participating ministries
would be identified in their respective annual work plans. More specifically for the Ministry of Health and
Sanitation, the project would finance medical items (testing and other kits, drugs and equipment) and
- 54 -



condoms. To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be purchased would be combined
into packages worth at least USD 100,000. Packages estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 100,000 or
more would be procured under ICB procedures using Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts
estimated to cost less than USD 100,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of USD 300,000 would be procured
by NCB. Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped together and
estimated to cost less than USD 30,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of USD 650,000 would be
procured on the basis of comparison of quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. Requests for such
quotations will include a clear description/specification and quantity of the goods; as well as requirements
for delivery time, place for the delivery or services, including any installation requirements as appropriate.
Condoms may be procured on basis of LIB or conceivably, through UNFPA. As the case may be,
alternatively such goods may also be procured from UN Agencies (e.g. UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO or
IAPSO - Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office) provided each such contract does not exceed USD
100,000. Packages will not be split for purpose of using a less competitive method.
14. Procurement under the CCSI subprojects (USD 6.89 million): CCSI Subproject procurement will
follow the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the guidelines and will be in accordance with the procedures
specified in the Project Operational Manual and in the subproject agreements to be signed with CCSI
Applicants. A sample contract will be provided in the POM. In any case it is expected that simple
quotation/shopping and direct purchase procedures, including procedures for "Community Participation in
Procurement" would be extensively used. In order to ensure fiduciary compliance, each CCSI subproject
agreement will describe or indicate how the performance of the subproject would be supervised, including
payment modalities.
15. Consulting Services/Training (USD 5.25 million): Major consulting services will involve recruitment
of the Financial/Procurement Management Agent, the Intervention Management Agent, and a social
marketing study for condoms. There would be other smaller consulting service contracts for studies and
training, M&E, financial and procurement audits, and for provision of specialized skills through technical
assistance arrangements. Consultant contracts will be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants, as revised through January 1999. NAS and participating
ministries will handle the selection of consultants as per their work plans. Consulting assignments expected
to cost less than USD 50,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of short-lists featuring only local
firms. Assignments in excess of USD 50,000, and specialized technical assistance assignments, must be
procured on the basis of short-lists featuring international invitations.
16. As a rule, consultant services will be selected though Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
methodology. All consulting assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 200,000 or more would
be advertised in UNDB and in at least one newspaper with wide national circulation. In the case of
assignments estimated to cost between USD 100,000 and USD 200,000 the assignment will be advertised
nationally and the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants, provided that foreign
consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration. Shortlists for Consultant services
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of USD 100,000 may be prepared without advertising for EOI.
Consulting assignments costing less than USD 30,000 for firms may be procured by comparing the
qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest in the job or who have been identified.
Auditors would be selected using Least-Cost-Selection procedures, provided such audits do not include
technical audits. Service Delivery Contractors Services to be provided by social workers/medical personnel
under Parts B and C of the Project shall be in procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association. Services for tasks that do not require the use of a team and which may be carried out by one
individual, will be procured in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines.
- 55-



17. Training Programs: These are geared toward building capacity, information sessions and improving
management and staff skills. Training programs would be part of the Project's Annual Work Plans of NAS
and participating ministries, to be prepared in accordance with procedures specified in the Project
Operations Manual. Some CCSI Subprojects may also be purely on training programs.
IDA Review
18. All works and goods contracts estimated to cost USD 100,000 equivalent or more will be subject to
IDA review of bidding documents (including technical specifications) prior to inviting for bids and IDA
review of bid evaluation reports prior to contract award.
19. The TOR for all consulting assignments and single source selection irrespective of value will be
subject to IDA prior review. Consultancy contracts with firms with estimated value of USD 100,000 or
more, and consultancy contracts with individuals estimated value of USD 50,000 or more will be subject to
prior review by the Bank in accordance with the procedures in Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines.
20. All CCSI subproject contracts to be signed with CCSI Applicants estimated to cost USD 50,000 or
more will be subject to prior review by the Bank before they are signed.
21. Contracts which are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during project
implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the
relevant Guidelines.
Procurement Audits
22. Not later than three months after the end of each financial year, NAS will submit to the Bank a
procurement audit report prepared by consultants selected in accordance with the guidelines for selection of
consultants and Terms of Reference to be incorporated in the POM.
Contract Management and Expenditure Reports
23. As part of the FMR, NAS will submit contract management and expenditure information in quarterly
reports to IDA.
- 56-



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Category            ICB             NCB          Other-        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.10          0.00        0.10
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0. 1 0)     (0.00)      (0. I 0)
2. Goods                            0.31            0.30          0.59          0.00        1.20
(0.31)          (0.30)        (0.59)       (0.00)      (1.20)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          5.25          0.00        5.25
(Consulting and Training)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.25)        (0.00)      (5.25)
4. Unallocated                      0.00            0.00           1.40         0.00        1.40
(0.00)          (0.00)        (1.40)       (0.00)      (1.40)
5. CCSI Subprojects                 0.00            0.00          6.80          0.00        6.80
(0.00)          (0.00)        (6.55)       (0.00)      (6.55)
6. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00          0.55          0.00        0.55
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.50)       (0.00)      (0.50)
Total                            0.31             0.30         14.69         0.00        15.30
(0.31)          (0.30)        (14.39)      (0.00)      (15.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 57 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value.                             Contracts Subject to
Threshold       ,    . Procurement           .,Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method            Estimated total value
subject to prior review
1. Works                        All               Price Quotation             None
2. Goods                USD 100,000 or above           ICB                 All contracts
USD 30,000-USD 100,000          NCB                    None
Below USD 30,000            Shopping                None
3. Services
Firms                   USD 200,000 or above  QCBS (intemational advert)   All contracts
USD 100,000-200,000    QCBS (national advert)      All contracts
USD 30,000-100,000           QCBS                   TOR only
Below 30,000             QCBS/CQ                TOR only
Individuals                Financial audits            LCS            All above US$ 100,000
USD 50,000 or above         Section V                 PR
Less than USD 50,000         Section V              TOR only
4. CCSI Subprojects      Above USD 50,000       Subproject procedure           All;
Below USD 50,000       Subproject procedure          None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US 6.5 million (55%)
(All TORS and single
source contracts
regardless of cost are
subject to prior
review.)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 2 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. (a) Civil Works                         0.05                         90%
1. (b) Civil Works                         0.05                         90%
2. (a) Goods                                0.60          100% of foreign expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
2. (b) Goods                               0.60           100% of foreign expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
3. (a) Consultants                         2.63           100% of foreign expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
3. (b) Consultants                         2.62           100% of foreign expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
4. CCSI Grants                              6.55               100% of amounts disbursed
5. (a) Operating Costs                     0.25                         90%
5. (b) Operating Costs                     0.25                         90%
6. PPF                                     0.40
7. Unallocated                              1.00
Total Project Costs                        15.00
Total                                      15.00
Explanatory Notes:
(a) the tern "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that
of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
(c) the term "Non-salary operating costs" means the expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, expenses related to
communications and utilities, maintenance of vehicles and office equipment, fuel, spare parts, office
rentals, travel and supervision.
- 59 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
24. Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures under contracts and purchase orders below US$ 100,000 equivalent each, for works, goods
and consulting firms, and US$50,000 for consultant services (individuals), grants, training and incremental
costs for which disbursements would be based on statement of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained by the GOSL for review by IDA missions and external
auditors.
Special account:
25. To facilitate disbursements, two Special Accounts one for the National HIV/AIDS Council (NAC) and
another for the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS) would be established and operated in US dollars
at a bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the IDA. Upon Credit Effectiveness, a sum of
US$250,000 for MOHS and US$ 500,000 for the NAC would be deposited by the IDA into these
accounts. The full Authorized Allocation shall be US$ 1,000,000 for the Main Special Account and US$
500,000 for the MOHS Special Account. These are the current estimates for anticipated four (4) months
expenditures during peak disbursements. Further deposits would be made into the accounts against
withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documentation.
Financial Management Assessment Report
Executive Summary
26. The objective of the Financial Management Capacity Assessment is to determine whether the
implementing agencies which have been identified as being responsible for the financial management under
the SHARP have adequate and acceptable financial management capability to undertake the assigned tasks.
The arrangements include the agencies' accounting system of recording and reporting, funds flow
mechanisms, intemal controls, adequacy of staffing, monitoring and auditing.
27. Under this project there are two main implementing agencies, the National HIV/AIDS Secretariat
(NAS) and the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS). The NAS is a new set up and is now in the
process of being formed, so the financial assessment is not applicable. To ensure that the project disburses
and accounts for the resources on timely basis, there will be a financial management consultant/firm
engaged at the start of the project, responsible for managing the resources of the project. It is also charged
with the setting up of the finance and accounting unit of NAS. The action plan to be put in place will
ensure the establishment of an acceptable financial management system at NAS, which will be adequate
and satisfactory to the Bank for the management of the project.
28. The MOHS has previous experience in the management of IDA funds, however there are no records of
an assessment conducted, and given that Sierra Leone is now emerging from conflict, several changes have
taken place. There is therefore the need for a complete assessment to take stock of the present situation and
capabilities of the Ministry. This capacity assessment was carried out at the MOHS, head office in
Freetown, where one of the two special accounts of the project will be located.
29. There will be eight Participating Line Ministries (currently) under the Multi-Sectoral Response
component. Each will have a local currency bank account to manage SHARP allocations based on
approved quarterly action plans or sub project proposals submitted by them to NAS. There was no
elaborate individual assessment of the participating line ministries as they will receive funds based on
- 60 -



individual activities or proposals and will be required to account for them on an imprest basis which
procedures already exist in all the ministries.
30. MOHS's financial and accounting manual, the organizational chart for the whole Ministry and that for
the finance division was reviewed in detail. The approval systems within the Ministry, accounting and
financial procedures manuals, the job descriptions of accounting and finance staff and internal control
questionnaires were also reviewed in detail.
3 1. The finance unit of the MOHS is headed by a Finance Director who has responsibility for all financial
management issues in the Ministry. He is assisted by a deputy responsible for management accounting and
a manager in charge of financial accounting. The Director and his two key assistants are professionally
qualified accountants with several years of experience and are presently responsible for the on-going
IHSIP.
32. The procedures for processing financial transactions, which includes the stages of approvals, and the
required support documents have all been documented in a system chart. These procedures were found to
be adequate for the on-going IHSIP, and although these will be the same rules to be applied to for the
implementation of SHARP, there will be the need to modify some portions to ensure that require rapid
disbursement and accounting of funds. As a result these procedures will have to be modified to take
account any special requirements for the HIV/AIDS interventions. Until now, under IHSIP the MOHS has
been preparing the FMR manually through the use of spreadsheets (excel), which is not useful and tedious.
33. Concerning the second main implementing entity, Based on the assessment there is no financial
management system at NAS and a new and acceptable FM system will have to be established. Resources
from an IDA "PPF" ( or retroactively financed, if necessary) will be used to hire financial management
consultants/firm to help establish adequate financial management systems for NAS and these will be
reviewed to determine their adequacy prior to effectiveness.
34. As to the financial management system of the MOHS, they meet the minimum requirements of the
Bank; however there is the need to modify and update their accounting manual and take steps to automate
the preparation of FMRs under SHARP through the use of a reliable and robust accounting software.
Summary of Project Description
35. The proposed project will finance the full spectrum of HIV/AIDS activities including prevention, care,
support, and impact mitigation over a four year period. It will have four components: (1) capacity building,
policy, and program coordination; (2) multi-sector responses to HIV/AIDS prevention and care; (3)
health-sector responses to HIV/AIDS, STI/TB and other opportunistic infection management, including
prevention, care and support; and (4) community and civil society initiatives (including communities,
NGOs, religious groups and the private sector). These activities will be carried out throughout the country
by Ministries, in all regions, districts and municipalities, and take into account the existing conditions and
level of capacity at each administrative structure (national, regional, district, and chiefdoms).
36. SHARP will begin with core activities that are ready for implementation. Support will be given for
capacity building activities to help galvanize the fight against HIV/AIDS and STIs, as well as organize
prevention and care activities in sectors and communities not yet engaged. Activities within the various
sectors will be geared to reaching staff involved in these sectors and their dependents. Civil servants in
sectors such as youth, education, and sports, social welfare, gender and children's affairs, defense,
transport, development and economic affairs, agriculture, the National Commission for Reconstruction,
- 61 -



Resettlement and Rehabilitation will be trained in HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities. At a future
point these trained personnel will become HIV/AIDS and STIs prevention agents for the people they
interact with, referring their constituencies to expanded HIV/AIDS and STIs care services that will be
available from the health sector, whether public, private, or provided by health-related NGOs (Health will
be given additional resources under SHARP to deal with referrals).
37. With respect to health-sector activities, the NAS will look to the MOHS to implement its programs,
receiving from the MOHS regular reporting on its progress. The National AIDS Control Programme
(NACP) is under the Ministry of Health and Sanitation (MOHS), will be replaced by an AIDS Response
Group in the MOHS (ARG-MOHS), and have the key role in health sector-HIV/AIDS/STI/TB and other
opportunistic infection activities. ARG-MOHS will require additional financial support. NAS will have
close contact with ARG-MOHS which will be involved in all SHARP major decisions and regularly
consulted. Health sector HIV/AIDS activities will be carried out using and building on existing
institutional, administrative, and logistical capacity.
38. Non-health line ministries will receive funds to carry out sector HIV/AIDS programs to be supervised
by their designated focal points, and utilize their existing institutional capacity to supervise, manage
resources, and report to
NAS on activities. These programs will start with core activities and expand to more open-ended menus of
activities as the line ministries demonstrate capacity.
Country Issues
39. The Bank has not carried out a CFAA for Sierra Leone, however work is currently on going to
document the country issues in a CPFA. It is expected the CPFA will be completed by April 2002. The
summary risk analysis is based on work carried out during the FM assessment and preliminary work on the
CPFA.
Summary of Risk Analysis
Risk                               Risk Rating                Risk Mitigation Measure
Inherent Risks:
Country
a) Weakness in legislative scrutiny of  M
Budget and Audited Accounts. Chairman
of Parliamentary Finance Committee
(Budget) is the same as Chairman of
Public Accounts Committee (audit).
b) Weakness in the banking sector leading
to large movement of cash from the center S                   Bulk processing will be done at
to the provinces with the risks associated                    the HQ and limit transactions at
with cash holdings. Most banks are                            the provincial level to minor
located in the capital, Freetown.                             activities through petty cash.
c)Inadequacy of remuneration of public  S
sector financial staff.
If there is need for it, the project
- 62 -



d) Capacity of participating Line                              will supplement by the
Ministries will vary.                                          recruiting and funding qualified
staff to address this weakness.
Overall Inherent Risks:              S
Implementing Entities:
a) Adequate formal rules, but in practice  M                   Intensify monitoring and review
they are not strictly followed.                                processes.
b) Inadequate of trained and qualified  M                      For the new unit, NAS the
staff.                                                         project will fund the salaries of
the qualified staff recruited to
run the project.
Control Risk:
Accounting system and Procedures    M                          The project will used funds
secured under a PHRD grant
Inadequate systems and documentation to                        and PPF from IDA to develop
guide the operations of new entity.                           the financial management
systems and prepare the
required manuals for use.
Funds Flow
Delays in accounting for funds by    S                         Payment for services rendered
implementing partners (IPs).                                   by the IPs will be link to
deliverables and receipt of
accounting retums as outlined
in the flow arrangements.
Internal Audit
MOHS has an internal audit (IA)      M                         The project will strengthen the
department whose functions are mostly                         IA through training.
limited to pre-auditing. Its needs
modemization to add value.
FPMA will provide the internal audit
functions for NAS
Information Systems
Accounting system at MOHS is not     S                         MOHS will be assisted to
computerized. There is no system in place                      computerize its accounting
at the new implementing unit. No effective                     system under the Bank health
computer support services in Sierra                            sector project or by other
Leone.                                                         donors. As part of the
establishment of the new NAS
office technical assistance will
be provided to ensure the
system is computerized.
Support may have to be
provided from outside the
country.
Overall Control Risk                 M
- 63 -



40. There will be two (2) principal implementing agencies namely the NAS and MOHS to implement the
four (4) components. At the same time, all participating line ministries will implement their respective
activities per their annual work plans or proposals. The NAS will be responsible for 3 components; i)
Capacity Building, Policy and Program Development; ii) Multi-Sector Response for HIV/AIDS Prevention
and Care; and iv) Community and Civil Society Initiatives, whilst MOHS will be responsible for
component iii) Health Sector Responses to STI/HIV Management.
41. The NAS is a new entity yet to be set up and the action plan to be put in place will ensure that the
accounting and financial management system incorporated in the set up are adequate to meet the Bank's
fiduciary requirements. Resources from the Bank is PPF will be used to establish the NAS and its financial
management systems.
42. MOHS has previous experience in the management of a Bank funded project and is presently
managing the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP). The arrangement under the IHSIP will
be used to manage the MOHS component of SHARP. The MOHS Director of Finance will have overall
responsibility for financial management. He is assisted by a deputy responsible for management accounting
and a manager in charge of financial accounting. The Director and his assistants are professionally
qualified accountants with several years of experience and are presently responsible for the on-going
IHSIP.
Funds Flow Arrangements
43. The flow of funds arrangements will be based on the activities that will financed by each component
and the number and location of participating agencies.
44. MOHS will be responsible for managing one of the four components. Under this component, it is
expected that the operations and activities to be carried out under SHARP will involve departments of the
same Ministry and so financial and procurement management will be centralized. It is however expected
that for operational activities, the departments will require incremental operating cost funding to enable
them perform their tasks under their agreed programs. This will be done through an imprest accounting
system which will ensure more timely submission of returns and also enable the Ministry produce quarterly
financial reports and withdrawal applications to the Bank on more regularly basis.
45. National HIV/AIDS Secretariat (NAS) will be responsible for the three (3) remaining components.
Under these components, activities will be undertaken by all other line Ministries, the National Commission
for Social Action (NaCSA), Civil Society, NGOs, Community Based Organizations and other recognized
bodies and associations. These different agencies are also located at various places. To ensure an efficient
operation and guarantee that resources get to the intended agencies and that reports are also submitted to
the NAS secretariat on timely basis, the flow of funds mechanisms, and reporting arrangements should be
effective and simple.
46. Community and Civil Society Initiatives (CCSI) sub-project proposals initially will be reviewed by
NAS from a pre-selected entity such as NaCSA. Thereafter, for small CCSI Subprojects, they will at the
first instance be submitted to an intermediate agent who will vet and approve them against a pre-determined
criteria and format. One of the critical formats will be the quarterly cash requirements, as provided for in
the implementation manual, for activities. On approval, these proposals will be sent to NAS for funding.
- 64 -



Flow Diagram
IDA
NAS and
FPMA       ------
MH Special              NAC/S Special
Account                 Account                       x
i .e
Line Ministry Local  -  D---  2
currency accounts       2
CCSI Component
.;0.1 implementing
First Release for Sub-Project Implementation
47. FOR CCSI sub-projects, which are approved, NAS, on receipt of approved sub-projects will draw up
the relevant contract for funding of a sub-project. The amount to be released as the first advance will be
determined by a number of factors, normally 20%, and at any rate should not exceed 25% of budget:
i)     cash required for the first quarter activities;
ii)    the promptness of submission of returns by implementing partner (if not a first time recipient);
iii)   the reliability of the implementing partner; and
iv)    adequacy of accounting staff of IP (under the CCSI component).
48. The intervention management agent (if any) will also make a recommendation on the amount to be paid
as the first advance after taking into account all the above factors.
49. The first advance for each sub-project approved will be paid or released directly to the implementing
partner. This will be done either through, the IP's bank account, by bankers draft or checks which ever is
appropriate or may have been requested by the IP. Cash payments should be discouraged as much as
possible (this may be inevitable depending on location and availability of banks at various districts etc).
Second and Subsequent Releases
50. All funds received by IPs should be accounted for on timely basis by promptly submitting returns on
all funds received and utilized by IPs. The returns will consist of a listing of all eligible expenditures
incurred, with the relevant supporting documents, such as receipts, invoices, Bank statements and
- 65 -



certification by beneficiaries (where applicable). The returns will be prepared in accordance with Statement
of Expenditure format as contained in implementation manual. On acceptance of the expenditure statement,
a subsequent release will be made to the IP through its Bank or the same means as the first release. The
IP's account will not have more than 25% of the total approved proposal cost at any time.
51. No subsequent release will be made to an IP if they have not submitted any returns on the first or an
earlier advance received.
Auditing Arrangements
52. Independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank will carry out the audit of SHARP. The
selection of auditors shall be on competitive basis in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and would be in
place by effectiveness of the project. There will be two audits required under this project, one each from the
NAS and MOHS.
53. The project financial statements, SOEs and the Special Accounts will be audited by the selected
independent auditors. The auditors' reports and opinions in respect of each of these statements of accounts
would be furnished to the World Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Reporting and Monitoring
54. The Bank has revised the financial reproting requirements which are outlined in its publication
"Financial Monitoring Reports for WOrld Bank Financial Projects: Guidelines for Borrowers, which
include:
55. The Quarterly Financial Reports would consist of Sources of Funds and their Uses of Funds,
statement of Uses of Funds by Project Activity, Project Cash Withdrawals, Special Account Reconciliation
statement and a six months Project Cash Forecast;
56. Quarterly Project Progress Report would consist of an Output Monitoring Report on contract
Management and on Unit of Output by project activity;
57. Quarterly Procurement ManagementReport would consist of procurement process monitoring for
goods and works and that for consultants' services, and contract expenditure reports for goods, works and
consultants' services.
58. The project will be required to produce these FMR reports during implementation. Although the
MOHS is capable of producing such reports manually, steps will be taken to automate it to make the data
more reliable and acceptable. This will be outlined in the action plan which will indicate time within which
the FM firm or consultant should be given to establish the needed reporting mechanism that will allow NAS
to start producing these reports.
59. All reports will be the responsibility of NAS and MOHS for their respective components.
Disbursement Arrangements
60. The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a four year period. A period of four to six months
after closing date would be allowed to make disbursements for expenditures incurred until the closing date
of the Credit.
- 66 -



Action Plan
61. The framework for the implementation of the SHARP project by NAS has been agreed, however the
setting up of the NAS, detailed staffing appointments and other arrangements are yet to be finalized.
62. It was agreed that the required accounting and financial staff will all be in place before the project
becomes effective. However to ensure that the Bank's fiduciary requirement for financial management are
met, a detailed Action Plan have been agreed with Government as set out below. The action plan sets out
the minimum accounting unit and staff requirements, (including qualifications, numbers, the timing etc),
auditing, and other financial management requirements.
Pre - Effectiveness Actions
Action Step                       Due Date          Responsibility or   Date Action
Action By           Completed
1.      Request For Proposal (RFP)       February 20, 2002  MODEP
(including Terms of Reference) for                Development
the Financial and Procurement                     Secretary
Management Agent (FPMA)
submitted to the Bank for no
objection
2.     Appointment of a Financial and    April 30, 2002    MODEP
Procurement Management Agent                       Development Secretar
(FPMA) for NAS (draft TOR
available)
3.     NAS Accounting support staff to be in  April 15, 2002  MODEP
place (minimum of 2 at start)                      Development Secretar
4.     Appointment of a consultant to prepare February 20, 2002  MODEP
the Project Operations Manual (which               Development Secretar
includes detailed financial and
accounting procedures)
5.      Review and Comments by WB on the  March 31, 2002   World Bank
Project Operations Manual
6.     Consultant finalizes Project Operations April 15, 2002  Consultant
Manual (including Financial and
Accounting sections) and FMR formats
for SHARP reporting
7.      Training of accounting staff     - May-June 2002   MODEP
8.     Opening Special Accounts (with    By Effectiveness  MODEP/MOF/NAS
signatories etc)
9.     Initial deposits made in the special  After Effectiveness MODEP/MOF/NAS
accounts
10.     Selection of Auditors to be completed April 30, 2002  MODEP/MOF/NAS
- 67 -



Actions to Continue After Effectiveness
11.     Program of software to produce    May 31, 2002     NAS /FPMA
reports and testing
12.     First set of Draft FMR to be      End of First QTR  NAS/FPMA
produced                          of project
implementation.
13.    Second set of FMR                  QTR ending June NAS/FPMA
2002 - in July
2002
14.    Third set of FMR                   QTR ending Sept. NAS /FPMA
2002 - in
October 01
15.     Decision to Move to FMR Based     QTR ending        IDA, MOF
Disbursements to be taken at this  December 2002    (GOSL) &
stage.                                              SHARP NAS
secretariat
- 68 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             05/01/2001                   05/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     01/10/2002                   01/14/2002
Negotiations                                    02/15/2002                   02/15/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2002
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Economic Development and Planning (MODEP), the Cabinet Sub-Committee on
HIV/AIDS chaired by the Minister of Information and Broadcasting, the core technical HIV/AIDS
committee of the Cabinet Sub-Committee on HIV/AIDS, the Ministry of Health and Sanitation, the
National AIDS Control Program, the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project, and the Central
Statistics Office. Of particular assistance in the preparation of the project was the HIV/AIDS Focal Point
for MODEP, Abdul-Rahman Sessay. Sidi Alghali assisted in the development of the institutional
arrangements. Major consultant contributors to the project design include: Nadeem Mohammad who
worked as the implementation/management information system specialist throughout the preparatory
process; David Wilson for M&E guidance; David Blankhart and Bailah Leigh worked extensively on the
health component; John Tommy on environmental health matters; Elizabeth Sam on the social assessment;
Amber Surrency dealt with prevalence survey matters and vulnerable children. Frode Davanger provided
constant operational support on all project aspects throughout, from the concept design through the
appraisal phase.
Preparation assistance:
Significant support was provided by the UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS and ICT/UNAIDS (Joan
Sullivan) based in Abidjan as well as a number of NGOs active in Sierra Leone.
Japan PHRD Grant for $494,000 (TF026795): This Grant was of special importance because it
provided the wherewithal to quickly launch essential studies and technical consultancies for project design
and preparation, and obtain a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The Bank was able to contract consulting
services for the following activities: a) Development of a participatory, multi-sectoral approach to design
basic institutional arrangements; b) Development of appropriate operational mechanisms for effective
project execution, supervision and monitoring, including detailed implementation plans, operations
manuals, monitoring and evaluation; c) Assessment, analysis and recommendations relating to
socio-cultural factors that affect the success of the prevention, care, and treatment approach; and d)
HIV/AIDS epidemiology and health specific activities which provide knowledge about the extent of the
epidemic and health sector service delivery capacity.
More specifically the PHRD grant contributed to (a) the definition of the project's expected inputs, outputs,
and key performance indicators; (b) an assessment of the capacity of NGOs and CBOs to carry out project
activities, c) a national sero prevalence survey; c) a medical waste management assessment; d) a social and
gender assessment; e) (c) design of a monitoring and evaluation system; f) the planning process for line
ministry HIV/AIDS activities; and (g) support for project management capacity, including procurement,
financial management, and the preparation of a draft Project Implementation Plan.
- 69 -



Grant Implementation and Results
The grant was successfully executed. All planned outputs were completed and consultant performance was
satisfactory, with significant transfer of technical knowledge to the client. Both the client and stakeholders
benefited from on-the job training, technical advice and consultative workshops which were carried out by
consultants, as well as gaining experience in program management and administration, the establishment of
separate project financial management systems, and international procurement.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Henri Aka                         Procurement Analyst
Rima Al-Azar                      NGO/CBO Specialist
Leonora Allen                     Sierra Leone Financial Administration
Kofi Awanyo                       Procurement Specialist
Sean Bradley                      Reintegration and Implementation Specialist
Sheila Braka                      Legal Advisor
Frode Davanger                    Conflict and Development Specialist
Florian Fichtl                    Sr. Social Protection Specialist
Roxanne Hakim                     Anthropologist
Astrid Helgeland-Lawson           Sr. Operations Officer
Karen Alexandra Hudes             Sr. Counsel
Minneh Kane                       Legal Advisor
Annette Kargbo                    Sierra Leone Administrative Support
Barbara Barbosa Machado           Language Program Assistant
John May                          Sr. Population Specialist
Mbuba Mbungu                      Sr. Procurement Specialist
Shimwaayi Muntemba                Sr. Social Scientist
Milford Rivas-Garcia              Administrative Client Support
Richard Seifinan                  Task Team Leader
Amber Surrency                    Early Child Development Specialist
David Webber                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Fred Yankey                       Financial Management Specialist
- 70 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Identification Mission Aide Memoire, May 2001.
2. Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, August 2001.
3. Draft Project Implementation Plan, January 2002 (electronic file).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I. Financial Management Assessment Reports (2002).
2. Procurement Capacity Assessment (2002).
C. Other
1. The Health Sector Response to HIV/AIDS in Sierra Leone (2001.
2. Health Sector Waste Management Assessment (2002).
3. Social and Gender Assessment (2002).
4. NGO/CBO Capacity Assessment (2002).
5. National HIV/AIDS Policy, National HIV/AIDS Council and Secretariat mandates (2002).
6. Sierra Leone Adolescents HIV/AIDS Knowledge, Attitude and Practice Survey (2001). Preliminary
tables.
7. Survey Report on the Status of Women and Children in Sierra Leone at the End of the Decade (2000 -
MICS II).
8. Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeal 2002 (2001).
9. Consolidated Protocols to the Mano River Declaration, 31 January 1984.
*Including electronic files
- 71 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P074642        2002 ERRC II                                           0.00     50.00                           0.00      26.45    -23.00       0.00
P070201        2001 Second Public Sector Management Support           0.00      3.50                           0.00       3.06      0.46       0.00
P040649        2000 COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION&REHAB                     0.00     25.00                           0.00      49.28     -2.97       0.00
P002422        1996 PROJ(CRRP)                                        0.00     20.00                           0.00       1.05       3.22     -6.00
P002420        1996 HEALTH SECTOR                                     0.00     35.00                           0.00      10.61      14.52      5.57
P002428        1995 TRANSPORT SECTOR PRO                              0.00     36.00                           0.00       1.58       4.63      0.00
P002411        1992 URBAN WATER SUPPLY                                0.00     21.00                           0.00       0.65       0.59      0.59
SL POWER REHAB
Total:       0.00      190.50                          0.00       92.68     -2.55       0.17
- 72 -



SIERRA LEONE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1992                Sierra Rutile                  1.24                              1.24
Total Portfolio:          1.24    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.24    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 73 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SIERRA LEONE: HIVWAIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Sierra  Saharan      Low-
Leone     Africa   Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       5.0      659     2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   130       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     0.63      313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%J                                        2.2       2.6       1.9    G 
Labor force (%)                                       2.5       2.6      2.4      GNI                           pGross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                       enroliment
Povertv (% of population below national povertV line)
Urban Population (% of total PoPulation)              35        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      37        47        59
Infant mortalltv (per 1,000 live births)                        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                       ..        ..         Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  34        55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   ..       38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  ..       78        96                  Sierra Leone
Male                                                          85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                                        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratloe
GDP (USS billions)                           1.2     0.90      0.67      0.64
Gross domestic investment/GDP               17.7      9.4       0.3      6.8
Exports of aoods and services/GDP           23.7     24.0      14.2      18.5                    Trade
Gross domestic savinns/GDP                            8.3      -5.7      -9.2
Gross national savinas/GDP                           -2.3      -6.0     -11.1
Current account balance/GDP                -14.4    -10.0      -6.3     -18.0     Domestic                   Investment
Interest paVments/GDP                        0.6      0.4       2.7       2.9    savIngs
Total debt/GDP                              40.2    128.3     188.7     207.4
Total debt service/exDorts                  28.2     12.2      58.7      66.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                              1 i0.0
Present value of debt/exports                                          668.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990.00     1999     2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.2     -4.5     -8.1       3.8       5.4                  Sierra Leone
GDP Per capita                     -0.9     -6.7     -9.9       2.8      3.3                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       0.2    -10.8     -6.6      21.5      14.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        5seo
Agriculture                                 32.6     47.0      43.6      47.3         T
Industry                                    20.7     20.4      27.3     29.7        o
Manufacturing                              5.0      3.7       4.3       4.7                             9 59\  e  98  99  00
Services                                    46.6     32.6      29.1     23.0     s5ooo        \
Private consumption                         89.4     81.9      94.3     94.9     s10000
General government consumption               7.7      9.9      11.4      14.3                     GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services               38.5     25.1      20.2     34 5                      G
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.1     -0.1      -5.7       3.1    100
lndustrv                                     1.7     -6.2     -14.0     -9.3     so
Manufacturing                                       5 5.0
Services                                    -2.7    -11.2      -8.9       1.0 so
Private consumption                          0.1     -2.4      -6.8      0.9
General oovernment consumption               0.0     -1.8      34.6     51.6     100
Gross domestic investment                   -1.1    -19.9     -94.7   1,659.6                  Exports    :-Imports
Imports of goods and services               -3.5      4.5      -5.0     54.4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 74 -



Sierra Leone
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
'1980    1990       1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                    40
(% change)
Consumer prices                              20.0    111.0      34.1      -0.9     30
Implicit GOP deflator                        18.4     83A4      25.0       6.1     20'
Govemment finance                                                                 10
(% of GOP, includes current.grants)
Current revenue                                        9.2      10.6      17.5    -10                  97    98    99    0
Current budget balance                                -7.0      -9.0      -5.2                  GDP deflator  - O  CPI
Overall surplus/defcit                               -10.5     -11.4     -11.2
TRADE
1980     1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          214       155        61       75     250
Rutile                                                78         1
Diamonds                                              13         1        10     200-
Manufactures                                  ..                                   i             i                    i
Totalimports(cif)                            367       155        78      161     100
Food                                                  37        28        66                         W   .    _
Fuel and enerqy                                       38        21        29  s0
Capital goods                                         33         5        18      0 - _    __              _    _
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      91         87       83          94   95    9s   97   9a   99    oo
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      95         91       93                  M Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      95         96       89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
m1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US    o millions)
Imports of goods and services                398      221        132      212       0
Resource balance                             -164       4        -40     -102      -
Net income                                    -30     -124       -20      -20
Net current transfers                         26       30         18        7      10      Ill-I'l
Current account balance                      -168      -90       -42     -115
Financing items (net)                        136       83         22      139
Changes in net reserves                       32         7        20      -25     -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        31         5        33       44
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)              1.0    151.4    1,804.2  2,092.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         469     1,151     1.263     1.319
IBRD                                        13       11          0        0                 G 174
IDA                                         29       81        299      354
Total debt service                            66       21         52       69             F 4                  B:354
IBRD                                         1        0          1        0                A                L
IDA                                          0        0          6        4
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             24       30         65                  E: 397
Official creditors                          38       13         44       85                        d1W C1
Private creditors                           12        4          0        -2
Foreign direct investment                   -19      32          1        ..
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0                                  D 239
World Bank program
Commitments                                  3        0          0       40      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                4        0        40        70      B- IDA   D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        0          4        2      c -IMF                     G - Short-temm
Net flows                                    4        0         36       68
Interest payments                            1        0          3        2
Net transfers                                3        0         33       66
Development Economics                                                                                               10/10/01
- 75-



Additional Annex 11 Monitoring and Evaluation
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
I. Introduction
The SHARP project is predicated on the assumption that urgent Project/Credit preparation without
extensive ex ante technical analysis is possible, if effective M&E systems are rapidly established as a
management tool, to guide continuous project adjustments. This approach places great onus on effective
M&E, particularly in Sierra Leone, where M&E must be established afresh after protracted conflict. The
Sierra Leone Government firmly recognizes the opportunity to establish a comprehensive M&E system at
the outset of the SHARP project.
II. M&E Components:
M&E comprises the following components:
(i) surveillance;
(ii) epidemiological research;
(iii) financial management; and
(iv) project management.
Surveillance encompasses biological and behavioral surveillance. The NACP, which was the predecessor of
the AIDS Response Group in the MOHS (ARG/MOHS) obtained HIV infection data from blood donors
and outpatients, including antenatal clients. However concerns about the quality and representativeness of
the data limited dissemination of findings. The US Centers of Disease Control (CDC) is supporting a
national household survey in 2002 which it is undertaking with the MOHS and the Central Statistical
Office. This survey will provide valuable data, but will not provide the entire information baseline
foundation for biological and behavioral surveillance. There is a need to conduct regular, annual,
comprehensive HIV surveillance among approximately 1,300 to 2,000 pregnant women from at least 12-13
antenatal sites nationally. These surveys will need to be supported by extemal technical assistance, from
UNAIDS, WHO, CDC, or a major NGO. SHARP will also establish regular behavioral surveillance at 24
month intervals, among up to 500 female sex workers, 1,000 soldiers and 2,000 youth aged 12-19 (500
male in-school, 500 female in-school, 500 male out-of-school, 500 female out-of-school).
Biological and Behavioral Surveillance
Type of Surveillance        Specific Samples
Biological Surveillance     1,300-2,000 antenatal patients from at least 12 sites in six
regions
Behavioral Surveillance    500 female sex workers
1,000 soldiers
,000 youth aged 12-19:
500 male in-school
500 female in-school
*     500 male out-of-school
*     500 female out-of-school
Further epidemiological research is required to track STI/HIV/TB infection and disease burden trends and
- 76 -



to evaluate interventions among priority groups. In particular, epidemiological research is required to
determine STI/HIV prevalence among up to 500 female sex workers, a key sentinel or "tripwire"
population. It is also recommended that intensive interventions and continuing STI and HIV surveillance be
conducted among this cohort, to rigorously assess intervention impact. In addition, little is known about the
prevalence, etiology and microbicidal sensitivity/resistance of STIs in Sierra Leone. Thus, STI prevalence,
etiology and sensitivity studies are urgently required. Such studies will improve the appropriateness,
efficacy and cost-effectiveness of syndromic STI management in Sierra Leone.
Financial management and project management monitoring will focus on SHARP's contracting and
coordinating capacity and the relevance, quantity, quality and economy of public sector and community
STI/HIV/TB services delivered.
III. M&E Structure
SHARP will manage the above M&E components as follows.
Component                                 Contracted to
Surveillance                             Biological: The AIDS Response Group in the
MOHS (ARG-MOHS), assisted by the Central
Statistical Office, the Epidemiology Unit and the
University of Sierra Leone College of Medicine
and Allied Sciences (CMAS)
Behavioral: The ARG-MOHS, contracting with
an academic/consulting organization, assisted by
the Central Statistical Office, the Epidemiology
Unit and the University of Sierra Leone Fourah
Bay College Demography Department
Epidemiological research                 The AIDS Response Group in the MOHS,
assisted by the Central Statistical Office, the
Epidemiology Unit and the University of Sierra
Leone College of Medicine and Allied Sciences
(CMAS)
NAC, public sector, community and civil society Financial/Procurement Management Agent
initiatives financial monitoring         (FPMA) and MOHS
NAC, public sector and community and civil  NAS Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
society initiatives project monitoring   Specialist, FPMA and Intervention Management
Agent (IMA)
Biological surveillance will be coordinated by the AIDS response group in the MOHS, assisted by the
Central Statistical Office, the Epidemiology Unit and the University of Sierra Leone (CMAS), with
extemal technical assistance from WHO, UNAIDS, CDC or FHI. Behavioral surveillance will also be
coordinated by the AIDS Response Group in the MOHS (ARG-MOHS) and be contracted to an academic
or consulting organization, assisted by the Central Statistical Office and the University of Sierra Leone
Demography Department. It is suggested that FHI provide technical assistance, to ensure surveillance fully
incorporates intemational good practice Epidemiological research will also be coordinated by the AIDS
response group in the MOHS, assisted by the Central Statistical Office, the Epidemiology Unit and the
University of Sierra Leone College of Medicine and Allied Sciences (CMAS). Financial and project
management monitoring will be outsourced.
- 77 -



Detailed Analysis of Project Management Monitoring
Project management monitoring represents the greatest challenge facing SHARP (and other MAPs).
Through SHARP, the NAC/NAS will assume a major budget transfer and grant-making role to the public
sector, community and civil society, supporting potentially hundreds of projects. NAC is newly constituted
and lacks grant-making systems and procedures. NAS requires systems for identifying epidemiological
priorities and soliciting compliant applications, publicizing grants, developing and publicizing structured,
transparent selection procedures, publicizing recipients, monitoring project performance of recipients and
communicating achievements. This MAP area is least developed and requires greatest emphasis.
Concerning financial management, NAS will contract with an independent Financial/Procurement
Management Agent (FPMA) to provide assistance in managing project funds and financial/procurement
administration, with at least one highly qualified professional for financial and procurement management,
physically located in the NAS secretariat.
Project monitoring will also be outsourced. A specialized external agency is required to collect, verify, enter
and analyze primary monitoring data from each partner. Without such an agency, data collection,
verification and analysis is unlikely to happen. Bureaucratic systems are not equipped to manage such a
process. They must seek the assistance of specialized external agencies, with the capacity to collect,
manage and analyze large amounts of data.
It is also suggested that a specialized agency be contracted to manage both financial/procurement and
project monitoring.
As part of the M&E process there will be a mid-term review, at which time the project component
performance will be assessed, and as necessary, mid-course modifications agreed to between NAC and
IDA.
NAS M&E Steps
The following 10 steps are recommended to equip NAS to support project management monitoring:
(i)    NAS clarifies its coordination/facilitation role and increases its capacity to coordinate M&E
(ii)   NAS Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist organizes the different monitoring aspects,
the training of partners and verifying, collating, analyzing and reporting data
(iii)  NAS and stakeholders engage in an intensive participatory process, to build ownership and buy-in
for M&E
(iv)   Each partner agrees on its key targets with NAS, using a simple, structured Targets Form
(v)    Each partner reports results monthly using a simple, structured Reporting Form
(vi)   Results are verified semi-annually
(vii)  Each partners' progress towards targets semi-annually is assessed, using a simple Rating Form
(viii)  NAS collates, analyses and submits to NAC summary reports of aggregate activities
semi-annually, using a simple Summary Form
(ix)   NAC and key stakeholders meet semi-annually to review monitoring reports and to identify key
lessons
(x)    NAS and key stakeholders update their operational and monitoring and evaluation manuals and
procedures based on lessons leamed.
(xi)   NAS and IDA, joined by other partners, review project performance during a mid-term review.
- 78 -



Additional Annex 12 Supervision Plan FY03
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
1. The project will need intensive supervision given its fast-track preparation, the large span of activities,
its blend of public and private sector interventions, and its multi-sectoral as well as its multi-agency nature.
In addition, Sierra Leone is a country emerging from 10 years of conflict with the worst development
indicators in the world, and with very limited capacity. The project will be implemented by many entities
only recently established and whose capacity will need strengthening. A budget of US$200,000 is needed to
supervise the project during the first 12 months of project implementation.
2. Some of the skills required for SHARP supervision will be needed on a regular basis while others will
be required on an ad hoc basis. It is therefore proposed to establish a Core Supervision Group, which will
emphasize financial, procurement and operational basic needs, complemented by technical specialists, in
particular those covering monitoring and evaluation, community participation, maternal and child needs,
sectoral concerns and sub-regional matters. (The combined core supervision group and technical specialists
will be referred to as the SHARP Team.)
3. A much more intensive than normal supervision program should be carried out during the first year of
the project to put in place a sound institutional base and properly begin interventions to be undertaken by
this complex operation. Clearly there will be an incubation period for the main new institution, the NAS,
whose staff will have just come on board, developing a management culture, preparing terms of reference,
and with limited World Bank procurement/financial management experience. Further, this will be done
during a transition period covering a national election, and in an uncertain political environment.
Additionally, reliable baseline data will only become increasingly available during the course of the first
year and will need rigorous analysis. The project team will need to assess--on the ground-whether the
indicators levels chosen are realistic, given the Sierra Leone situation, or need adjustments. Therefore,
during the first year of the project, the Core Supervision Group will carry out quarterly supervision
missions, comprised of 2-3 staff, and for approximately two weeks duration. The priority technical
specialists will provide support periodically, as required. The emphasis of the supervision missions will be
in getting the SHARP up and running, with particular emphasis on capacity development for communities,
NGOs, and line ministries.
4. Project supervision will also benefit from the Bank's: (a) health sector team which is in the process of
developing a new sectoral project; (b) education team involved in the Bank's new education sector
program; (c) ongoing efforts at reintegration and the Bank's team dealing with our project; (d) and the
Bank's transport team. In addition there will be a (a) Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) specialist
consultant; (b) an implementation specialist to provide longer term support and to troubleshoot
implementation issues at an early stage, (c) a matemal and child needs specialist, (d) an
NGO/CBO/community participation specialist, and (e) a conflict and development specialist.
5. The SHARP Team therefore includes the following members: (i) Task Team Leader with experience in
HIV/AIDS operations; (ii) health/nutrition/population specialist, (iii) senior implementation specialist, to
help in the critical first half year of project's implementation; (iv) financial management specialist who
will review adherence to Bank procedures with regard to fiduciary responsibilities; and (v) procurement
and implementation specialists, responsible for the procurement, implementation, and institutional issues
and (vi) sectoral specialists in the areas of education, gender, and transportation, matemal and child needs,
post-conflict and development, and community participation.
- 79 -



6. The SHARP Team will be complemented by representatives of Sierra Leone's development partners
who are active in the fight against HIV/AIDS, many of whom are members of the UN Theme Group on
HIV/AIDS in Freetown, as well as specialists from ICT/UNAIDS Abidjan. As during the preparation
process, partners will be invited to participate on supervision missions to ensure the complementarities of
interventions, build strong partnerships, and facilitate a cross-fertilization of experiences. Areas of
technical consultant support to highlight are in the areas of community participation, Information,
Education & Communication and Behavioral Change Communications (IEC & BCC), prevalence and KAP
surveys, blood supply systems, and coordination of refugee, returnee, IDP, and host community activities.
- 80 -



Additional Annex 13
Refugee, Returnee, IDP and Host Community Activities
SIERRA LEONE: HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT
I.     Background and Objective
A. Background:
* During the peak of the crisis in the Mano River sub-region (September 2000-May 2001), more than
670,000 people were displaced by conflict and close to 500,000 refugees were hosted, primarily by
Guinea. Some 1.1 million of the estimated 15 million inhabitants of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone
were either internally displaced or refugees, many living in dire conditions in camps or other makeshift
structures. In 2001 increased military confrontations in the Parrot's Beak between Guinean armed
forces and armed groups, that included elements form the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) and the
Sierra Leone Civil Defense Forces (CDF), led to internal displacement of Guinean citizens, particularly
those from communities in the southwest, bordering Sierra Leone and Liberia (Consolidated
Inter-Agency Appeal for Sierra Leone 2002: West Africa Sub-Regional Framework for Humanitarian
Operations in 2002, the "CAP").
* Regarding the current situation, the CAP indicates that there are roughly 181,000 Sierra Leoneans
living outside the country (Guinea- 11,000, Liberia-70,000) which affect 800,000 people in host
communities (Guinea-300,000, Liberia-500,000). In Sierra Leone itself where there are nearly
250,000 intemally displaced people, there are 17-20,000 (old and new) Liberian refugees, with the
numbers accelerating significantly at the end of 2001.
* Currently there are large numbers of Sierra Leone refugees returning to their homes. (many refugees
indicate their desire to return to Sierra Leone to vote in the national election scheduled for May 2002.)
Notwithstanding, the region is not stable and adverse political developments in one or more of the
Mano River Union countries could result in increasing numbers of refugees. A sudden large-scale
influx of Liberian and/or Guinean refugees along with Sierra Leonean refugees rushing to return to
Sierra Leone could pose a serious source of instability, first, because they are most likely to settle in
volatile areas with limited humanitarian access, and second, because their arrival would severely strain
the host communities and minimal humanitarian infrastructure. Even under the most optimistic
scenarios refugees will return to new host communities which will have to bear the additional burden of
new arrivals.
*   A wide range of UN agencies and NGOs are involved in support services; for instance WFP is feeding
approximately 1.0 million of the refugee population; UNHCR is assisting 500 Sierra Leoneans a week
to return to their homes. ARC, IMC, World Vision, the Red Cross, CARE, are active in refugee and
host community work which relate or could relate to HIV/AIDS.
*   A sub-regional institution exists which has the formal participation of Guinea, Sierra Leone, and
Liberia. The Mano River Union (MRU) was created as an institution in 1973. Originally created as a
customs union, it expanded its role to include economic development. Its mandate is now a product of
the Mano River Union Treaty and 15 consolidated protocols, the most recent being "Cooperation on
Defence, Security, Internal Affairs and Foreign Affairs" (May 9, 2002). It is headquartered in
Freetown with branch offices in Conakry and Monrovia. While moribund for much of the recent past
- 81 -



because of the political situation and lack of budget support from its member states, it has nevertheless
continued to function throughout its nearly 30 years of existence. Using the Mano River Union
umbrella community and civil society groups, such as the MRU Women Peace Network which
managed to break the ice and encourage Heads of State to work together on sub-regional issues, have
sought to put pressure on the neighbors to cooperate. In May 2001 the Heads of State signed a new
protocol; and in November 2001 the three Foreign Ministers met with the UN Secretary General and
requested United Nations support to reactivate the MRU secretariat and support community and civil
society groups promoting reconciliation in the sub-region. Follow-up to this request by ministers is
expected early in 2002 with a Ministerial meeting planned to discuss MRU peace building, social
reinsertion of displaced people, and the coordination of reconstruction efforts.
*   During the August 2001 pre-appraisal mission, jointly with UNAIDS, the Bank had exploratory
discussions with other UN agencies regarding an HIV/AIDS Mano River Union Initiative. UNAIDS,
through its Inter-Country Team for West and Central Africa (ICT/WCA) agreed to act as facilitator
for the initiative. In October 2001 a video/voice-conference was held with Abidjan, Geneva, Freetown
and Washington multilateral participation. The outcome of the discussions was that sufficient interest
existed to warrant taking the next step, which is follow-up meetings to include HIV/AIDS
professionals from the three governments involved, as well as representatives from the respective UN
Theme Groups on HIV/AIDS. The goal will be to promote better information sharing, coordination,
quality and constancy of services, without creating new or parallel structures, but rather build on
existing strengths and comparative advantage of the partners. In sum, there is recognition that
HIV/AIDS is a sub-regional cross border problem, more information about what is happening and how
each country is handling the situation is needed, and a readiness to examine means by which
cooperation and collaboration can be improved and maintained.
B. Objective:
The refugee, returnee, IDP and host community activity objective is to increase access to
HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and support services to refugees and affected populations living
throughout the entire territory of Sierra Leone as well as Sierra Leoneans living in Guinea and
Liberia (Funding of interventions for those refugees outside Sierra Leone will be sought from other
donor partners as well as possible grant funding sources).
II.    Description of Program Content
The main substantive areas this approach will address are:
1. Improved quality and quantity of cross-border IEC/BCC messages and materials reaching
refugees, returnees, and intemally displaced populations and their respective host communities -
with a special focus on war-affected women and youth;
2. Improved capacity of entities already providing health and medical services to refugee and
internally displaced populations and their host communities to offer confidential VCT services.
These VCT services will necessarily be linked to locally-available medical care and treatment
including MTCT, family planning, syndromic STI services, condom distribution, and nutritional
support;
3. Improved community capacity to provide home-based and community care support for individuals
and households infected and affected by HIV/AIDS; and
4. Innovative approaches which the communities themselves propose.
- 82 -



Of high priority will be the design and implementation of IEC/BCC activities, and addressing fear, stigma
and discrimination which prevent many individuals from seeking VCT services or psychosocial support and
medical care. (See Attachment I to this Annex for further substantive discussions and details)
1. Prevention of HIV/AIDS and STI Transmission:
This activity will focus on children and youth, women of child-bearing age, newborns, women heads of
family units, and males in positions of authority, whether explicit (such as police, soldiers, NGO
administrators), or implicit (such as adolescent leaders, heads of households, or those de factor in control of
water, firewood distribution, sanitary facilities). For girls and women the focus would be on coping
strategies in a refugee, returnee, IDP environment and program interventions to protect them from abuse
and possible HIV/STI infection. In the case of males in positions of authority, the focus will be on gender
sensitization. For both of these groups, condoms and microbicides for women would be made available as
part of the prevention package. In the case of pregnant women and newborns, women would be provided
with access to prevention of MTCT treatment, if health staff are available who are trained, have the
necessary medical supplies and equipment, and are able to do pre- and post-screening. For all targeted
groups, there would be extensive IEC/BCC training, materials, and programs. The IEC approaches would
be customized to adapt to the country environment and target group, but would be consistent across all
activities in terms of basic messages.
2. Voluntary Counseling, Testing, and Prevention of MTCT:
While all persons involved with the target communities would be eligible for testing and counseling, this
component will focus on women of child bearing age, pregnant women and newboms, and males in
positions of authority. These groups will be encouraged to seek HIV/AIDS counseling and testing. As
indicated above, wherever possible, MTCT interventions will be made available to pregnant women and
newborns, along with access to the following elements of care for HIV-positive mothers: I) infant feeding
support; ii) family planning; iii) antenatal and delivery care taking into account HIV serostatus; iv)
prevention education; and v) clinical care for HIV related illness.
3. Care giving and Support:
While in many remote communities, care capacity, particularly health care capacity, is severely limited,
those diagnosed with the virus will be provided with palliative drugs, nutritional and psychosocial support,
as well as other assistance. The IEC/BCC campaign will also aim to sensitize the refugee, returnee, IDP
and host community populations about HIV/AIDS and the destigmatization of those who are HIV positive
and their children. While it is recognized that men must assume greater responsibility in providing care, this
is not something that is often put into practice. This role will be encouraged through the training and skills
building of men in many caring practices. Families affected by HIV/AIDS (those caring for PLWA,
fostering children, etc.) would be provided support, as determined by the executing NGO in the context of
the community being assisted. Examples of care and support to families affected by HIV/AIDS may
include food subsidies, nutritional counseling, educational and psychosocial support for children, micro
finance opportunities, income generating activities, special passes for access to water and sanitation
facilities, as well as technical and literacy training.
4. Capacity Building and Partnership with Refugees:
NGO and other eligible implementing entities (see section IV.C, below) will contract, train, and supervise
local NGOs to carry out some of the activities, thus developing their institutional capacity. These
- 83 -



implementing entities will be expected to monitor and evaluate their local NGO service providers. Both
qualifying implementing entities and local NGOs will also work with CBO groups in the refugee camps and
communities.
5. Design and Resign, Monitoring and Evaluation:
The grant would include the financing of studies, surveys, KAP studies of the principal target groups, and
needs assessments, such as a child needs assessment, all of which would provide direction for program
design and the baseline for program performance measurement. These activities would be either carried out
by or supervised by the NGO Irnplementers. NGO Implementers would provide regular progress and
problem reporting on their activities which would be shared with ICT/UNAIDS and the member countries.
An evaluation would be conducted after the first year to determine if the program had significant potential.
All four components will be developed simultaneously. Of high priority will be the design and
implementation of cross-border IEC/BCC activities. These activities will be directed at addressing fear,
stigma and discrimination which prevent many individuals from seeking VCT services or psychosocial
support and medical care.
III. Program Management, Financing and Implementing Entities
A. Program Management:
The basic approach in the design of these refugee/refugee-related activities is to deal with this complex
problem in as simple a manner as possible. Therefore the program will rely on the management structure
to be installed for SHARP and with regard to CCSI activities, these will be treated in terms of financial and
procurement management as all other elements of the SHARP.
B. Program Financing:
There are two aspects of these activities which will require financing.
First, such activities will require active and sustained involvement of the NAS to; a) oversee community
and civil society initiatives which will be performed inside Sierra Leone, and b) to actively engage in, and
support the recently launched MRU HIV/AIDS Initiative dialogue. This dialogue could culminate in a new
sub-protocol or agreement between the three countries, in which case NAS would assist in MRU
inforrnation sharing, capacity building and technical exchange. It would be expected that other MRU
partners and/or the intemational community would provide additional support so as to sustain these efforts
beyond the SHARP project life. NAS responsibilities for these activities will be funded under Component
1.
Second, envisioned are community and civil society initiatives for these activities. As with other CCSI
interventions, the basic principle is that SHARP will be more demand driven then "command" driven in
terms of responsive actions eligible for financing. Broadly speaking, prevention activities will follow the
general CCSI guidance, namely those which reduce high risk behavior and exposure to risks, reduce the
vulnerability of those who are unaware of their risk and/or unable to protect themselves, or those who can
put others at risk. There is no question that women are particularly at risk in these populations, often
subject to forced sexual activity, with little recourse to traditional protections. Their needs will be of high
priority under this sub-envelop.
- 84 -



"Destigmatization" of the disease is a crucial aspect in changing behavior and in making it acceptable to
receive help. Thus IEC/BCC will play an important role one which will be complemented by simple family
and community (psycho-social) support, food and nutrition, medical help, voluntary counseling and testing.
Further, to accomplish CCSI objectives, it is recognized that HIV/AIDS/STI programs will often be part of
efforts that have multiple purposes.
The Government has agreed to provide substantial support under Component 4 (Community and Civil
Society Initiatives), for refugee, returnee, IDP and host community activities to reach the potentially
affected/infected conmmunities. While the estimates vary, the MRU situation is fluid, and likely to remain
so over the four year SHARP implementation period, and beyond. The burdens on host communities will be
substantial under any conceivable scenario. Activities related to refugees outside and inside Sierra Leone,
returnees, IDPs, and for host conumunities in Sierra Leone to which these populations return, will be
covered by the CCSI. However, as already noted, funding of interventions for refugees outside Sierra
Leone will be provided with resources other than the IDA contribution to SHARP, sought from other donor
partners as well as various grant funding sources.
C. Implementing Entities
The basic construct for identifying potential implementing entities eligible for these CCSI activities would
be that the entity has been designated by the Government of Sierra Leone as a principal channel for
providing community-based social sector support throughout the country, to all communities. Once
qualified under this special eligibility criteria the other eligibility tests for any CCSI applicant would apply,
as defined in the SHARP Program Operations Manual supplement for CCSI.
For refugee activities in Guinea and Liberia, which will be funded with resources other than IDA/SHARP,
the following entities or classes of entities will be pre-qualified:
A. NGOs which operate in two or more of the MRU countries in relevant fields to HIV/AIDS
prevention, support, and care;
B. National Commission for Social Action (NaCSA) which has been identified by Government as a
principal channel for providing comrmunity based social sector support throughout Sierra Leone;
C. Mano River Union (MRU) which is a tripartite governmental organization established in 1973 and
is engaged in peace building, social reinsertion of displaced people, and has facilitated development
activities;
D. UNHCR endorsed projects from UN agencies. UNHCR's mandate is to coordinate UN agencies
for refugee activities.
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation
Entities implementing CCSI-approved proposals will report to the NAS regarding implementation progress,
consistent with SHARP monitoring requirements for other SHARP community and civil society initiatives.
NAS will consolidate this information and furnish it regularly to the NAC. Given the special nature of
refugee/refugee-related activities, NAS staff will make site visits, conceivably in conjunction with Mano
River Union HIV/AIDS Initiative partners, to assess performance, problems, and best practices. During
the course of the project there will be an effort to design and test a customized activity module for these
efforts which builds on the core CCSI monitoring survey tool.
- 85 -



Attachment 1, Annex 13
Refugee, Returnee, IDP and Host Community Activities
IEC/BCC:
Three types of communication channels will be used simultaneously to reinforce the IEC/BCC messages:
*   mass media via rural radio programming;
*   interpersonal communication via peer educators, health care workers, traditional leaders, religious
leaders, relief workers;
*   participatory community theater, dance, music;
The goal of this component is to build community-based organization capacity so that these organizations
can effectively use combinations of these three communication channels to deliver HIV/AIDS prevention
and care messages to their target populations. This will require training or re-training of CBOs in
participatory techniques to collect and analyze qualitative data for the design and evaluation of
culturally-appropriate IEC/BCC messages. Such messages can be delivered over radio, interpersonally,
and/or through participatory community theater, dance or music performances.
In addition to IEC/BCC messages encouraging individuals to use condoms and seek VCT and other
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment services, a recommended list of priority themes for new
IEC/BCC messages - all of which would be required to be relevant to the post-conflict context and
complement sub-regional peace-building efforts - will be provided. Culturally-appropriate messages which
address gender and sexual-based violence will be given high priority to increase community awareness of
the heightened vulnerability of women and girls to STI/HIV/AIDS. Other themes would explore
discrimination, human rights including child rights, reintegration of child soldiers and rebel-brides into the
community, the psychosocial needs of orphans, the importance of adequate food for [IV-infected
individuals, the concept of confidentiality, the concept of home-based care.
Priority will also be given to messages and activities targeted to youth, both refugee/IDP youth as well as
youth within host community populations. For example, sports competitions for youth would be
encouraged, as would messages promoting life skills for both in-school as well as out-of-school youth.
Building the capacity of community-based organizations to more effectively use any combination of these
three communication channels to deliver HIV/AIDS prevention and care messages to their target
populations is the goal of this component. This requires training or re-training CBOs in participatory
techniques to collect and analyze qualitative data for the design and evaluation of culturally-appropriate
IEC/BCC messages to be delivered on the radio, interpersonally, and/or through participatory community
theater, dance or music performances.
In addition to those IEC/BCC messages encouraging individuals to use condoms and seek VCT and other
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment services, a recommended list of priority themes for new
IEC/BCC messages - all of which would be required to be relevant to the post-conflict context and
complement sub-regional peace-building efforts - will be distributed among eligible entities. Among these,
culturally-appropriate messages which address gender and sexual-based violence will be given priority to
increase community awareness of the heightened vulnerability of women and girls to STI/HIV/AIDS.
Other themes would explore discrimination, human rights including child rights, reintegration of child
soldiers and rebel-brides into the community, the psychosocial needs of orphans, the importance of
adequate food for HIV-infected individuals, the concept of confidentiality, the concept of home-based care.
- 86 -



Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT)
HIV voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) has been shown to be an effective HIV prevention intervention
and, for those persons testing positive for HIV, as an entry point to appropriate medical care and emotional
and nutritional support. VCT is also the necessary first step of any MTCT prevention program, through
which pregnant women who become aware of their sero-positive status receive timely advice and treatment
for preventing transmission to their infants.
As illustrated above, VCT services are not part of the typical package of medical services currently offered
to refugees, IDPs and host communities in the Mano River Union. By improving the capacity of certain
entities - i.e., those already providing reproductive health services or TB screening to vulnerable
populations - to offer confidential VCT services in refugee and refugee, returnee, IDP and host community
settings, this component will help health care workers better target limited resources towards those most in
need of immediate follow-on medical attention and emotional support and those in need of guidance and
support to stay negative.
The new "rapid" HIV test kits will be used in this component, allowing health care providers operating in
difficult circumstances (i.e., lacking laboratory facilities) to easily incorporate new VCT services into
ongoing programs. However, because the most important aspect of VCT is the pre- and post-test
counseling, VCT interventions will include adequate training, re-training and supervision of qualified
counselors to assure confidentiality and avoid bum-out. Counseling sessions themselves will be monitored
to ensure that they are of high quality and make appropriate referrals to crisis support, follow-up
counseling and medical care for those testing positive. All sero-positive clients will be informed about
opportunistic infections, their prevention and their care. Specific approaches for more vulnerable groups
such as youth and sex workers will be adapted.
To increase awareness of new VCT services among refugees, IDPs and host communities, peer educators,
traditional/religious leaders, and relief workers will be trained to provide accurate information regarding the
location of VCT services, their hours of operation, and how much they cost.
An important objective of this program will be to increase the capacity of communities to mobilize
innovative and sustainable home-based care and psychosocial support for persons infected with or affected
by HIV/AIDS. Such activities will be proposed by the communities themselves, with the support of NGOs
and other partners, and be govemed by the same general principles which direct the entire CCSI package.
This includes such activities as preparing meals, regular house-calls, assisting with visits to health care
centers, or arranging for the adoption of orphans Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT).
- 87 -












IBRD 31690
This map was produced by the                 120                            1'1
Map Design Unit of The WorldBank.  G  U  I N  E AB
The boundories, colors, denominations           -  -  -  -   - --                                       10'
and anyother information shown on               i 
this map do not imply, on the port of                                 b __
The World Bank Group, any judgment                                 0 Faloba 1          \,
on the legolstatus of any territory, or
ony endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
Kabala                          U I N E A
Kamkwie   '\Fadugu    KOI N   DUGUI
j0                 ~    Kamaron        /
| Foreco Ah >  %  > <  ~B 0) Al B A L I (|,     
KF~,eco..h    CO               O   .BAITf
Pendembu
4-~   tJY    K                   f _.r  Bumbuna  ',                                       90
tMa.nbc,I0  /.(*      '                               -           / ),
Makceni                                        Saom
Itol"qgto         P t Loko     '               ./ -                                Salomas
Knonkr.dee                  6\Mobuci                                Bakidu
PO             Loor.e ~it+= aiaiai,a r<8i.nIe.insr                    K 0 N O    Kainkardu
Lwgi I npei     > <l    | '  ;>      S       >                             o Sefadu  0         TO
d" C;                             T (  TO N K  lI             Jalama                     Gu6c:k6dou
~ET0WNq                                 A -, 
-!"onka-ka3F--          iVoini                                                 amu
W    WS rO/~   -,~                   -                                                       *ee  Ta < j'   2 /o i m
AREA                                                                                               anjm
Km    moyamba                                  Ponguma          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kai ahun\
KwItfr~ -  I              Moyaimba       jSr                  Dodao 0       KA         N
8s               '        \i 0 Y A Ai B                Bo.           KENEMA          ba
0Se n`3bab,u- '                       Kena
_    Gbongbaao     ./
___   K~      tY4i  \> 0x_;,+   X/-       .        Oau>          , 
Nk   ,
.nh 1    N;HEoToo          (, PuJjehlnj Zim '   ,I                 LIBERI
-----             |,2   g ?LI                         ER 
SIERRA LEONE                                  sorO 
7-       HIV/AIDS RESPONSE                           i- 
PROJ ECT                                                    , 
--  PAVED ROADS                                           t     ,,t,*     t      ,t;;
0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                               -, - Yf|  
3 DISTRICT CAPITALS ;:|r 
*    NATION CAPITAL             A T L A NTIoC                                         -
-       DISTRICT BOUNDARIIS            ;                             e,.c IE rio,
- --    INTERNATIONAL SOUtNDARIES    0 C E A N                           -             xc 
o              50             1(i )                             T L A N rl c  "4Z* . tItE 0  TH  -
6'                   KIIQMEITRS               ^. ~                       OCEAN E H
132                             12'                               '5 .0
LD:EMBER I A



