Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11523
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2076-IN)
JANUARY 11, 1993
Energy Operations Division
Country Department II (India)
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Country Exchange Rates
(Yearly Averages)
Currency and (Abbreviation)                               Rupee (Rs)
Year                                      Rupees/US$
1978 (Project Preparation Starts)                       8.19
1981 (Project Appraisal); and
(Project Approved and Becomes Effective)           8.66
1982                                                    9.46
1983                                                   10.10
1984                                                   11.36
1985                                                   12.37
1986                                                   12.61
1987                                                   12.96
1988                                                   13.92
1989                                                   16.23
1990                                                   17.50
1991                                                   22.74
1992 (Project Completed)                               26.20
Government of India Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations
CEA    -    Central Electricity Authority
CHP    -    Coal Handling Plant
CMD    -    Chairman and Managing Director
cr.     -   crores (ten million Indian Rupees)
EAP    -    Environmental Action Plan
GOI    -    Government of India
IERR   -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
KfW    -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NHPC   -    National Hydro Power Corporation
NPTC   -    National Power Transmission Corporation
NTPC   -    National Thermal Power Corporation
PCR    -    Project Completion Report
PFC    -    Power Finance Corporation
PMI    -    Power Management Institute
SAR    -    Staff Appraisal Report
SEB    -    State Electricity Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of the Director-General
Operations zvaluation
January 11, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India
Second Ramarundam Thermal Power Prolect (Loan 2076-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on India - Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project (Loan 2076-IN)", prepared by
the South Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The three 500 MW. coal fired thermal units with associated
transmission facilities were commissioned in the time and at a cost some 10%
higher in real terms than estimated. With the completion of this project, the
Ramagundam power plant achieved its full planned capacity of 2100 SW. However,
as the present output of the mine linked to the plant is insufficient to support
this capacity over a longer period of time, the National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) is setting up a temporary additional supply from other
sources, which it expects to become available in 1993.
In the course of project implementation, NTPC became a strong
institution able to plan, design, construct, and operate efficiently large
thermal plants and transmission systems. All in all, the outcome of the project
is rated  as satisfactory and its sustainability  as likely.   Institutional
development is rated as partial given the limited progress achieved in tackling
sector issues at the state level.
The Project Completion Report provides an informative account of
project implementation. OED recently audited four of the projects in the sector.
It plans to audit the present project together with  other completed  NTPC
operations.
This docu.nt has a restricted distribution a  my be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without worLd 8a* authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2076-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare No.
PREFACE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  ii
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . .                      3
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     4
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation   . . . . .                     6
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     7
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
IDA/Bank Performance   ....  .           .    . .....  .     .  .  .    .   10
Borrower Performance   ....  .           .    . .....  .     .  .  .    .   11
Financial Aspects.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   11
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    12
Consulting Services ....  .            .  .     . .....  .   .  .  .    .   12
Procurement ....  .          .  .  .  .    . .....  .   .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Procurement.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   12
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . .                    13
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . .                       14
PART III  STATISTICAL SUMMARY ...  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .........    .  20
ANNEXES
1.  Ex-Post Internal Economic Rate of Return. . . . . . . . . . .                     32
2. Income Statement. . . . . . . . . . .                                              33
3.  Sources and Application of Funds.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    34
4.  Balance Sheet .              . . .35 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..           35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2076-IN)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Ramagundam Thermal Power Project in India, for which Loan 2076-IN with the
amount of US$300 million was approved on December 22, 1981. On November 20,
1989, the Bank cancelled US$20 million, which were no more needed for the
completion of the project. Thus the loan amount was reduced to US$280
million. The loan was closed on March 31, 1992, against the original schedule
of June 30, 1988. Total disbursement under this loan was US$277,167,342.62.
The undisbursed balance of US$2,832,657.38 was cancelled on August 28, 1992,
when the final disbursement under the Loan was made. Cofinancing for this
project to the extent of US$30 million, DM 145 million, SR 172 million and JY
27,110 million was provided by OPEC, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of
Germany, Saudi Fund and Exim Bank of Japan, respectively.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was jointly
prepared by the Energy Operations Division, Country Department II (India) of
South Asia Regional Office and the Energy Division, Technical Department of
Asia Region, and Part II by the Borrower.
Preparation of this PCR was jointly started by the Bank and the
Borrower during the Bank's supervision in February 1992, based on the revised
guidelines for PCRs, the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3608b - IN), the Loan and
Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower and internal Bank Group memoranda.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2076-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
The two main objectives of the project were: (i) to provide NTPC
assistance to alleviate power shortages in the Southern Power Region
Interconnected System of India by installing three 500 MW each of coal fired
units as the second stage of NTPC's Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; and (ii)
to assist GOI in achieving its objective of further advancing the regional and
national integration of the power subsector (Part I, para. 2).
ImDlementation Experience
NTPC successfully implemented the project. The first 500 MW unit
(Unit 4) was commissioned one month ahead of the revised schedule and the
second and third 500 MW units (Units 5 and 6) four and nine months ahead of
the revised schedule, respectively (Part I, para. 11).
Results
The project fully achieved its main objectives through successful
completion of 3x500 MW units of the second stage of Ramagundam station and
associated 400 kV transmission lines. By this completion, the Ramagundam
Thermal station has become the third of the 2,000/2,100 MW class coal fired
thermal stations of NTPC (Part I, paras. 13 and 22).
The results of the sectoral objectives sought under the project,
i.e., long-range planning on a national basis, improvement of sector
organization and strengthening of the finances of the institutions involved in
the sector, have not been satisfactory (Part I, para. 23).
NTPC's financial rate of return on historically valued net fixed
assets declined from a high 17Z in FY86 and FY87 to 13Z in FY91 against the
covenanted rate of return of 9.51. The internal economic rate of return
(IERR) of the project was about 241 against the estimated figure of about 151
(Part I, paras. 27 and 34).
Sustainabilitv
Operational efficiency of NTPC, in this power station as well as in
other NTPC plants is good and thus contributes to keeping up benefits from the
projects NTPC carries out (Part I, para. 28).
Insufficient tariffs and an unchecked increase of accounts
receivable could endanger such sustainability. The Bank, GOI and NTPC have
been taking actions to avoid such an occurrence (Part I, para. 29).



- ii -
Findings and Lessons Learned
Major findings were as follows:
(a) With the completion of its second stage, Ramagundam Thermal Power
Project became the third 2000/2100 MW class large-scale coal fired
power plant of NTPC, following the Singrauli and Korba projects.
Detailed design and engineering work for the project were
successfully carried out in-house by NTPC, based on its experience
with earlier projects, with very limited support from outside (Part
I, paras. 6 and 13);
(b) Although hydro power is the major power resource in the Southern
Region, thermal power stations, including the Ramagundam Thermal
Power Station, have been playing a key role, especially in a dry
season, in supplying reliable electric power to the system (Part I,
para. 14);
(c) It took about one year and three months from opening of bids to
finalization of the award for the steam generator package; including
about 4.5 months for bid evaluation; about 8.5 months for agreeing
with the Bank on award recommendation; and, about 2 months for
finalizing the letter of award. These periods should have been
curtailed by at least three months (Part I, paras. 11 and 39);
(d) Constraints in coal supplies to meet the requirements of the Project
have been experienced due to: (i) delays in commissioning of
development of mines and consequently insufficient availability of
coal; and (ii) industrial relation problems in the linked mines
(Part I, paras. 15-17);
(e) Completion of the project and final payments required the extension
of the closing date of the loan by three years nine months in which
two years three months were due to overly optimistic original
closing date and one year six months of delay in the actual
implementation (Part I, para. 25);
(f) The Bank's and GOI's performances in realizing the sectoral
objectives sought under the project were not fully satisfactory.
The Bank expected that increasing the role of the GOI-owned
entities, particularly building up NTPC and emphasizing centralized
power planning would lead to more SEB reform. The Bank's support
helped NTPC to become India's model utility and, in the process,
also helped to improve operational efficiency nationwide. However,
the relative autonomy of the States under India's federal structure,
limits what can be achieved through involvement exclusively with
central agencies (Part I, para. 23); and,
(g) Despite the fact that NTPC's (cost plus) tariffs are set at levels
aimed at ensuring a satisfactory financial viability, the current
policy environment in the power sector prevents NTPC from operating
on a purely commercial basis and this has reduced its ability to
continue implementing its investment program (Part I, paras. 34-36).



- iii -
Lessons learned from this project are summarized as follows:
(a) Unexpected constraints in coal supplies and the resultant loss of
generation have been experienced. Whereas forecasting of delays in
development of mines and the industrial relation problems at the
linked mines could not have been foreseen at the stage of project
formulation and appraisal, contingent provision for linkage to
alternative mines could have probably been considered by the
Borrower and the Bank (Part I, paras. 15-17);
(b)  Socio-economic issues are being assigned higher priority,in
preparation/appraisal as well as implementation stages. NTPC should
actively pursue consultations with the people affected by its
Projects; however NTPC should not limit its involvement in
environmental and socio-economic issues to the impact of its power
stations, but should act as a catalyst in environmental and
rehabilitation and resettlement mitigation measures and monitoring
programs for the mines and associated urban and rural development as
well (Part I, paras. 19 and 21);
(c) In accordance with the emphasis the Bank requires from its Borrowers
and the implementing agencies, NTPC should also strengthen its
environmental assessment and monitoring functions in its
headquarters, regional centers and power plants. The central
department in charge of these functions should be headed by an
Executive Director (Part I, para. 21);
(d) Emphasis should be given during the project preparation stage to
shortening the time necessary for award of the contract on the
critical path and for completing the payments promptly (Part I,
para. 39);
(e) As a precondition for further Bank loans, more emphasis is being
given to improving the commercial arrangements between NTPC and its
clients. However, this has proved to be difficult to achieve in
practice unless the financial performance of the SEBs is improved in
real terms (Part I, para. 35);
(f) To overcome the difficulties mentioned in (e) above, and to enable
NTPC to operate on a purely commercial basis, GOI should allow NTPC
to sell to other customers the allocated shares of the SEBs which do
not comply with their agreements with NTPC. While technical
reallocation (by limiting availability of power to a particular SEB)
may be difficult to implement, commercial reallocation can be
implemented. This can be done by limiting allocations to a
defaulting SEB and charging a stiff penalty for drawals exceeding
the reduced allocation (Part I, para. 35); and
(g) As a result of the changes in the overall economic policy
environment within which NTPC is operating, its financial policies
need reorientation. Under the circumstances, it would be appropriate
to change the existing rate of return covenant into a self financing
covenant, because it would not only provide a better monitoring
mechanism for the Bank, but also provide better support to NTPC
towards meeting its development challenges (Part I, paras. 34 and
36).



i         I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2076-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Name:                Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project
Credit/Loan No:      Loan 2076-IN
RVP Unit:            South Asia Region
Country:             India
Sector:              Energy
Subsector:           Power
Background
1.        Power shortages of the 1970's and the adverse effect these were
having on the productive sectors of the economy prompted the Government of
India (GOI) to intensify its efforts to balance the demand and supply of
electricity. The strategy of the GOI was to supplement efforts of State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) in increasing installed capacity and the
establishment of high voltage transmission lines. Emphasis was put on: (i)
accelerating the development of the hydro power potential and large coal fired
power plants at both pithead locations and the proximity of load centers; (ii)
improving the efficiency of thermal power plants and reducing losses in
transmission and distribution networks; (iii) expanding the rural
electrification program; and (iv) strengthening the organization and
management capabilities of the SEBs. In 1974 GOI decided to proceed with the
construction of the first stage of four large thermal power stations of 600 MW
each at Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka, located near coal fields and
supplying bulk power to the beneficiaries through an interconnected 400 kv
transmission system. GOI established in 1975 two power generating companies,
the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power
Corporation (NHPC) to construct and operate large thermal and hydro power
stations and associated transmission systems. IDA/Bank has financed the first
stage of 600 MW at each plant and its associated transmission. In addition,
IDA/Bank also financed the second stage of Singrauli (1,400 MW), Korba (1,500
MW), Ramagundam (1,500 MW) and Parakka (1,000 MW). The feasibility study of
the second phase of the Ramagundam project was prepared by NTPC in 1981 and
the project appraisal for the second stage was made by the Bank in 1981. The
loan was approved in December, 1981.
Prolect Obiectives
2.        The primary objective of the project was to provide NTPC with
assistance needed to assure its envisaged role, including the alleviation of
power shortages in the Southern Power Region of the country. Sectoral
objectives of the project were Bank Group's assistance to GOI in the power
sector in such areas as introduction of long-range system planning on a



- 2 -
national basis, improvement of the sector organization and training and
strengthening of the finances of the institutions involved in the sector.
Project Description
3.        The Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project (Loan 2076-IN) formed
the second stage of NTPC's Ramagundam Thermal Power Development program of
2,100 MW (3x200 MW + 3x500 MW) ultimate capacity located in the Karimnagar
District of the State of Andhra Pradesh and consisted of installation of the
first three units of 500 MW each and associated transmission facilities,
including the following components:
(a)  three 1,725 tons/hour boilers and three 500 MW turbo-generating
units complete with all auxiliaries and ancillary electrical and
mechanical equipment including the switchyard;
(b)  the 400 kV transmission lines comprising 1,361 circuit kms of
linesi/ and associated sub-stations; and
(c)  a 6-8 seat, twin engine airplane to be used for supervisory visits
of NTPC's plants 2/.
4.        In US Dollar terms, the total actual cost was US$952.4 million, of
which US$280 million equivalent was provided by the Bank under Loan 2076-IN,
US$74.1 million equivalent by KfW, US$30 million by OPEC, US$47.6 million by
Saudi Fund, US$192.0 million by Japan Exim Bank, and US$328.1 equivalent from
domestic sources.
5.        Since August 1991, the transmission facilities implemented under the
project are being managed by the National Power Transmission Corporation
(NPTC) under a Power of Attorney in its favor issued by NTPC. NPTC, a GOI-
owned entity responsible for the implementation and operation and maintenance
of the transmission systems was incorporated in October 1989. Between
September 1991 and March 1992, the Bank communicated with GOI on the
modalities of the transfer of assets from NTPC to NPTC, assessed the
management and operational capabilities of NPTC and with its telex of April 2,
1/   400 kV transmission lines consisted of the following circuits:
(Circuit kms)
Bangalore - Salem                          181             (175)
Ramagundam - Nagarjuna sagar                534            (540)
Nagarjuna sagar - Cuddapah II              239             (282)
Nagarjuna sagar - Munirabad                 407            (400)
TOTAL:                              1,361          (1,397)
Figures in parentheses show estimation at the time of appraisal.
2/   This item was subsequently excluded from the scope of the Bank loan.



1992, informed GOI, NTPC and NPTC that it agreed in principle to such
transfer. However, at the time of preparation of this PCR, NTPC was still the
legal implementing agency of the project.
Project Design and Organization
6.        As in the case of the first stage, the expansion phase of Ramagundam
Development comprised a number of major works and required careful
coordination to ensure efficient progress. Much of the detailed power station
engineering and design work had been carried out for the first phase. NTPC
had already acquired adequate experience in the area of station design and
engineering of 200 MW units at Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka and
was in the process of installing two units of 500 MW capacity at Singrauli for
which a foreign consultant was employed by NTPC to assist in the design,
preparation of specification, evaluation of bids, etc. Therefore, appointing
a consultant for doing such works was not necessary and pre-award engineering
works such as basic engineering, preparation of specification and bidding
documents, evaluation of bids, etc., were done in-house by NTPC. A foreign
consultant (US firm) was employed to review the basic design prepared by NTPC.
The detail design and engineering work for the project were also carried out
in-house by NTPC, with very limited support from outside.
7.        At the time of appraisal of the first stage, NTPC had adopted a two-
tier organizational structure--one at the central/corporate level and the
other at the project sites. Technical services, contract and procurement
services, quality assurance and expediting etc. were centralized. For each of
four power plants, a project organization group under the control of a General
Manager was organized to manage the implementation of each project.
8.        NTPC was reorganized, subsequently, after the appraisal of the first
stage to have three tier organizational structure, corporate, regional and
project levels, respectively.
9.        NTPC's Board of Directors, which consists of twelve members, is
responsible for establishing internal policies. The Corporation is headed by
a Chairman and Managing Director (CMD), who is assisted by five full-time
functional Directors, namely, Director (Projects), Director (Operation),
Director (Technical), Director (Finance) and Director (Personnel). At the
Corporate Office, corporate planning, central procurement and vigilance
functions are headed by Executive Directors reporting to the CMD. For the
purpose of the administration and execution of work at the sites, the
Corporation is divided into five regions, (North, West, East, South and
National Capital Regions) with headquarters at present located at Allahabad,
Nagpur, Patna, Hyderabad and Delhi, respectively. These regions are under the
control of Regional Executive Directors who are responsible for the
implementation and operation and maintenance of power plants in their
respective regions 3/. Every power plant and regional transmission unit is
headed by a General Manager. The new structure has the advantage of
optimizing the span of control of the CMD. The new structure has the
advantage of optimizing the span of control of the CMD and provides for
decentralization of line responsibility while retaining centralized systems in
3/   Until August 1991, the Regional Executive Directors were also responsible
for the transmission facilities in their regions (para. 5).



- 4 -
areas such as long-term planning, basic engineering, procurement of critical
equipment and spares, quality assurance, co-ordination with the World Bank and
other financing agencies, inspection etc.
10.       As NTPC's activities become complex and more geographically
dispersed, further adjustments in control will be required to maintain a high
level of operational efficiency. This will in turn require some reorientation
of technical and management skills as well as adjustments in the
organizational structure. NTPC appointed the Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmedabad, to carry out a detailed diagnostic study covering the relevance of
current operational management policies along with a review of organization
structure. The consultants' recommendations in respect of diversification,
centralization, organizational structure and human resource development, are
presently being evaluated for phased implementation. NTPC has also carried
out an internal assessment of the need for centralization/decentralization in
the day-to-day functioning of the Corporation. This has been partly
implemented with reinforcement of the regional headquarters with commercial
and operational services. The project engineering and procurement groups at
headquarters have also been aligned for executing regional projects. The
Corporation underwent an organization change in August 1991 when the
management of transmission lines and associated engineering and contracts work
was entrusted to the National Power Transmission Corporation (NPTC -- para.
5). NTPC has now updated its corporate plan for the upcoming 15 years. The
corporate plan has identified several key thrust areas, viz. equipment
procurement, coal and gas supplies, operations and maintenance, commercial,
financing, environment and rehabilitation, research and development,
technology, human resources development, organization development and
diversification. The corporate plan also focusses on the major constraints
that may hamper the long-term viability of the Corporation highlighting
external and internal financing resource constraints, lack of commercial
discipline in the sector, project approval procedures and lack of clarity in
the enforcement of environmental protection regulations. NTPC states that
some remedial measures have been suggested for the attention of policy making
bodies in the sector.
Project Implementation
11.       The implementation of the project consisting of three 500 MW units
and associated 400 kV transmission lines has been successfully completed. At
the time of appraisal, the first 500 MW unit (No. 4 unit) of the project was
scheduled to be commissioned in July 1987 based on the placement of award of
the main plant equipment (i.e., boiler and turbo-generator) in October 1982
(zero date). But the main plant equipment could be awarded in Oct. 1983 for
which the revised "zero date" was determined as July 1983 4/. The revised
schedule for commissioning of the first 500 MW unit based on this zero date
was July 1988 considering five years for commissioning of the first 500 MW
unit and twelve months for each subsequent 500 MW units thereafter. The first
4/   It took about 15 months for the main plant equipment contract from the
date of receipt of offer to the date of the award of the contract. This
interval included bid evaluation (about 4.5 months), agreeing with the
Bank on award recommendation (about 8.5 months) and the finalization of
the letter of award (about 2 months).



-5-
unit was commissioned in June 1988 which was one month ahead of the revised
schedule and subsequent units in March 1989 and October 1989 which were four
and nine months ahead, respectively, with respect to the revised schedule.
12.       During the initial running and subsequent performance tests, certain
initial defects were found in several items of main and auxiliary equipment,
such as boilers, boiler feed pumps, condensate extraction pumps, ash handling
plant and power transformers. Rectification works have been finished by March
1992 and all units were put into commercial operation on the dates shown in
Part III 5/.
13.       With the completion of its second stage, the Ramagundam Project
became the third 2000/2100 MW class large-scale coal fired power plant of NTPC
following the Singrauli and Korba projects. One of major features of the
Ramagundam project was the fact that the detailed design and engineering as
well as the project construction management were carried out by NTPC's own
resources without assistance of local consultants with the exception of small
minor areas. (A foreign consultant reviewed the project design as mentioned
in para. 6).
14.       Although hydro power is the major power resource in the Southern
Region, thermal power stations, including the Ramagundam Thermal Power
Station, have been playing a key role, especially in a dry season, in
supplying reliable electric power to the system (Part I, para. 14);
15.       Under the first Ramagundam project, GOI agreed to take necessary
steps to make available adequate coal supplies for the 2100 MW power plant.
Coal supply did not hinder the operation of commissioned units of this project
till 1989-90. However, the operational performance of Ramagundam Power
Project was temporarily affected from 1990-91 onwards by constraints in coal
supplies due to: (a) delays in commissioning of development of mines and
consequently insufficient availability of coal; and (b) industrial relation
problems in the linked mines.
16.       NTPC took up the matter with the GOI as a result of which
alternative coal mines for supply of coal to this project were identified. As
coal from some of these mines has to be transported through the normal 'BOX'
wagons instead of Bottom discharge wagons, NTPC has also undertaken
installation of Wagon Tripplers to enable effective unloading and handling of
coal from the alternative mines. The above additional coal handling
augmentation system (Wagon Trippler System) to utilize coal from other coal
mines is being constructed with additional funding from Saudi Fund for
development (SR 42 million, equivalent to US$ 11 million) and will be
completed by December 1993. As a result of the measures taken by NTPC, the
coal supply position to the project is fast approaching normalcy.
17.       As a result of the above, the loss of generation from Ramagundam
station was 1193.3 GWh in 1990-91.
5/   Intervals between the sychronization and the date of the commercial
operation for three units were five (5), six (6) and eighteen (18)
months, respectively. The delay in completion of No. 6 unit was due to
rectification of defects in main and auxiliary equipment.



Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
18.       At the time of design and implementation of the project, norms for
environment protection and requirements of resettlement and rehabilitation
plants were not fully developed. Following phenomena encountered at the
Singrauli area, NTPC had realized that while a large thermal power project
like Ramagundam would lead to faster economic development of the surrounding
communities, it could also have a negative impact on the balance of ecological
systems if sufficient mitigatory measures were not taken. Therefore NTPC
designed the project to comply with the then established environmental quality
standards. However, environmental and rehabilitation issues outside the power
plant project (i.e., of the coal mine, and other industries developed in the
area) were not studied. A detailed Environmental Impact Assessment was not
prepared as this was not required at the time of appraisal, which was carried
out in early 1981.
19.       The implementation of the Ramagundam project, including the
expansion phase of the 1500 MW, required the acquisition of 10289 acres of
land involving in the relocation of 782 families. NTPC has evolved a
rehabilitation program which is needs-based and caters to both physical and
economic rehabilitation of the displaced families. In addition to providing
monetary compensations for the land acquired by NTPC, alternate land is given
to the Project Affected People (PAP). Rehabilitation colonies of the villages
of Narsalpalli, Annapurna and Poratpally have been provided with approach and
internal roads; two primary schools have been constructed or extended.
Immunization and health camps are being organized on a regular basis. In the
above villages, 18 bore wells and three hand pumps have been installed for
drinking water purposes. Two community centers have been constructed in the
villages so that the local population can take part in community activities
such as rural sports tournaments, cultural activities, etc. The PAP are given
preference for regular employment in NTPC, based on their educational level,
skills and experience. To date, 428 PAP have been provided jobs in NTPC.
Further, jobs are also arranged with the contractors. In this category, a
total of 108 people have been provided with such employment. NTPC townships
are generally self contained and two or three shopping complexes are
constructed in each township. In general, preference is given to the PAP in
allotment of shops. No records exist at the Bank to show that consultations
with the PAP were carried out. NTPC should actively pursue consultations with
the people affected by its Projects; however NTPC should not limit its
involvement in environmental and socio-economic issues to the impact of its
power stations, but should act as a catalyst in environmental and
rehabilitation and resettlement mitigation measures and monitoring programs
for the mines and associated urban and rural development as well.
20.       NPTC has also taken appropriate measures with regard to stack
emissions and water effluents. Electrostatic Precipitators with efficiency of
over 99.5Z have been provided with 500 MW units so as to minimize particulate
emission. Various parameters like air quality (S02, NOX and suspended
particulate matter--SPM), noise and water quality are continuously monitored
to ensure that they comply with environmental quality standards. NTPC is also
implementing a scheme for recycling and treatment of the overflow from the ash
pond. In addition, through a continuous afforestation program, a large number
of trees of various species have been planted and this would be expanded in
the future. As a part of reclamation of filled in ash pond area,
afforestation has been undertaken successfully on the temporary ash pond.



Tree plantation over the ash pond in the Ramagundam site has been successfully
carried out since 1986. The trials of growing some species over the ash pond
directly (without soil cover) were carried out. The species such as
Casuarina, Acacia, Eucalyptus, etc., have shown excellent growth. As of
December 1991, 515,000 trees were planted in the project.
21.       As a result of problems encountered and experience gained in the
first Bank-financed Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka 200 MW stages,
the Bank encouraged NTPC to become more aware of the particular complexities
associated with environmental and especially with resettlement issues. The
environmental consciousness of NTPC has since been increasing very fast and in
the recent projects--e.g., the Talcher Thermal Power Project (Loan 2845-IN)--
the approach to environmental protection and rehabilitation has been more
comprehensive right from the beginning. In the Talcher project, a detailed
environmental impact assessment was prepared prior to beginning the
construction work. NPTC recruited staff specialized in social and
environmental sciences and undertook a review of the environmental aspects at
the four Bank financed power stations, i.e., Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and
Farakka in order to implement corrective measures to adequately rehabilitate
and preserve the physical and social environment in those areas affected by
these projects. To achieve this, NTPC prepared in 1989, under the then
proposed Regional Power Systems project, an Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
addressing: (i) preparation of Environment Impact Assessments for existing and
future projects; (ii) resettlement and improvement of living conditions of the
displaced population; and (iii) development of afforestation plans. The
progress of the EAP has been satisfactory. Many activities identified are of
continuous nature and are being monitored regularly. However NTPC's
environmental unit is understaffed. In accordance with the emphasis the Bank
requires from its Borrowers and the implementing agencies, NTPC should also
strengthen its environmental assessment and monitoring functions in its
headquarters, regional centers and power plants. The central department in
charge of these functions should be headed by an Executive Director. A
program for strengthening and upgrading NTPC's environmental department
(including technical assistance) and mitigatory actions to be taken by NTPC
under the EAP to correct outstanding problems in respect to environmental
conditions and regulations and resettlement, will be followed up under the
proposed NTPC-Power Generation Project.
Project Results
22.       The project fully achieved its main objective through successful
completion of 1,500 MW additional power generation capacity and associated 400
KV transmission lines. The generation from the project after commercial
operation was 15,597.53 GWh as of December 31, 1991. The unit-wise details
are given in Part III.
23.       On the other hand, the results of the sectoral objectives of the
Bank Group's assistance to GOI to introduce long-range system planning on a
national basis, improvement of sector organization and strengthening of the
finances of the institutions involved in the sector have not been
satisfactory. This is due to the relative autonomy of the states which limits
what can be achieved through involvement exclusively with central agencies.
Under India's federal structure, central assistance to the states as budgetary
allocations are set by an automatic allocation formula. Therefore, GOI has no
direct means to ensure that financial performance of the state utilities



improves. Thus, the GOI-owned utilities have no option but to enforce
financial discipline through means, such as: (a) letters of credit set at the
level of its sales to each client; and/or (b) limiting the supply of power to
the level of payments received. However, the success has so far been limited.
GOI recently amended its strategy to support efficient public utilities by
channelling the discretionary funds not subject to the automatic allocation
formula only to the performing states. These funds essentially include
financing through the recently established Power Finance Corporation and funds
from external assistance 6/. These actions would increase GOI's impact on
the sector. However, much needs to be done to begin solving the structural
problems of the sector, such as the current allocation process 7/, the
planning process, the operational efficiency of the power system, the
institutional set up of the state utilities and financing needs of the power
sector. In addition, issues affecting energy conservation and socio-
environmental aspects of power development should be taken up.
24.       The estimated cost of the project at appraisal and actual
disbursements are given in Part III. Compared with the appraisal cost
estimate of Rs 12,539.60 million (excluding Interest During Construction --
IDC -- and Working Capital Margin -- WCM) actual costs amounted to Rs.
13,439.52 million representing 7.2 percent increase. Rs. 899.92 million of
the increase was due to the change in scope. The total project cost estimates
expressed in dollar value, however, amounted to US$1,567.50 million (excluding
IDC and WCM) in the appraisal and US$908.16 million actually, resulting in a
decrease of 42 percent, due to the rapid depreciation of the rupee against the
dollar. The average exchange rate for the period of disbursement from the
Bank loan was Rs. 18.8 per US dollar, resulting in a depreciation of about 58
percent in the value of Indian Rupee to US dollars.
25.       The estimated disbursements at appraisal and actual disbursements
are given in Part III. The original closing date of the loan was June 30,
1988. The loan was closed on March 31, 1992 which was three years nine months
behind SAR schedule. This delay was due to two components: (i) unrealistic
set up of the original closing date (2 years 3 months); and (ii) delays in
implementation (1 year 6 months) 8/. Total disbursement under this loan was
6/   GOI's efforts to develop PFC into a viable and effective instrument for
promoting improvements in the power sector are supported by the Bank
(Loan 3436-IN; Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project approved in
January 1992), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) under a parallel
operation approved in March 1992, and by USAID under a related technical
assistance program for PFC's institutional development.
7/   Not only in the power sector but also in coal and natural gas.
8/   (i)    The original closing date was June 30, 1988, while the expected
project completion date was September 30, 1989 (SAR para. 3.12).
The earlier closing date was in fact contrary to normal Bank
practice of setting the closing date for similar projects - 6
months to one year after the project completion date in order to
ensure the reimbursement of latest payments. The original closing
date should have been September 1990.



US$277,167,342.62. In accordance *ith the Bank's practice,' withdrawal
applications against eligible expenditures incurred until March 31, 1992, were
accepted unitl July 31, 1992, and the final disbursement ws made on August 28,
1992. The undisbursed balance of US$2,832,657.38 was cancelled on this date.
This cancellation was in addition to the cancellation by the Bank, on November
20, 1989, of US$20 million which were no more needed for the completion of the
project. Keeping in view the financial difficulties faced by GOI and NTPC at
the end of 1991, the Bank agreed in November 1991 to finance under the
National Capital Power Project (Ln 2844-IN) eligible expenditures made after
March 31, 1992, for those ongoing contracts under Ln 2076-IN. These
expenditures are estimated at US$4.0 million.
26.       The allocation of the loan into various categories and actual
disbursement category-wise are shown in Part III. The original allocation was
revised in April 1987 to reflect changes in financing for the erection works.
An executive airplane which was in the original plan was eventually excluded
from the scope of the Bank loan. US$20 million which was no longer necessary
for the completion of the project was cancelled from the original amount of
the loan of US$300 million on November 20, 1989.
27.       In the SAR, the ex-ante internal economic rate of return (IERR) for
the project was estimated at about 15 percent, based on measurable economic
costs and benefits associated with the 1,500 MW development. The ex-post IERR
is about 242 as shown in Part III and Annex 1.
Project Sustainability
28.       This project is clearly sustainable due to the following reasons:
(1) the power station is being operated with a high plant load factor; (2) the
demand for its full output is going to exist since power is in short supply;
(3) the current tariff is high enough to recover capital and operating costs;
(4) the new two-part tariffs, which are will be applied beginning mid-1992,
will reinforce incentives to operate the plant efficiently and with high
availability; and, (5) the SEBs in the Southern Region pay their bills to
NTPC.
29.       However given the sectoral problems, whether NTPC's contribution is
sustainable is an issue on which GOI, the Bank and NTPC are all working.
NTPC's projected high growth may not be sustainable in the medium to longer
term, due to external funding constraints as well as inadequate internal
resource mobilization, plus an unchecked increase in accounts receivable from
consumers in the Eastern and Northern Regions. Sustainability in terms of
meeting the financing requirements of overall sectoral capacity expansion (and
efficiency improvements) needed to close the demand/supply gap is highly
questionable, but that existing capacity of well designed, constructed and
operated plants (such as Ramagundam) should continue to generate sustained
(ii)   Major items of delays in actual implementation were:  (a) initial
delay in procurement; and (b) subsequent approval of funding for
the coal handling augmentation scheme in 1987 which was completed
in three years after the award in January 1988; and (c) delay in
completion of the performance test following rectification of
initial defects during commissioning period.



- 10 -
economic benefits expected from these power plants. Whether the marginal
economic value of power used in subsidized agricultural or domestic
consumption exceeds the LRMC and what share of this plant's output finds its
way to these end uses is another question related with the deficiencies
existing in the sector.
Bank Performance
30.       The performance of the Bank from the project preparation through
project completion was satisfactory. The Bank maintained good relations with
the beneficiary throughout the execution of the project and fostered an
environment conducive to increased Bank Group involvement with NTPC.  To date
the Bank Group has assisted NTPC in implementing a total of 13 projects with a
total assistance of about US$4 billion. Through these operations the Bank
Group has been strengthening the institutional and financial viability of the
corporation. It is important to highlight that, during this initial decade of
development, NTPC and the Bank Group developed a close relationship, during
which the Bank Group has endeavored to support NTPC in each step of its
development, in a manner that goes much beyond the substantial financial
assistance extended to its expansion plan. However, in response to SEBs
continued poor payment records on their bulk power purchases, which were
seriously straining NTPC's finances, the Bank has refrained from further
commitments to NTPC since mid-1987. Thus the then-proposed Regional Power
Systems Project, which was negotiated in December 1989, was not presented to
the Board, as GOI and NTPC could not fulfill within a reasonable period the
associated conditions of Board presentation. Following NTPC's takeover in
January 1992, of the Unchahar Thermal Power Station from the Government of
Uttar Pradesh in compensation for arrears of the UPSEB, NTPC's level of
current receivables (excluding the amount still to be paid by GOI through
Central Appropriations in FY93 and FY94) at the end of February 1992, was
about 2 months of sales equivalent. Therefore it is now substantially in
compliance with the Bank's financial covenants under the ongoing loans, and
the Bank has recently begun preparation work on a new operation with NTPC.
31.       The Bank has also continued addressing a number of shortcomings of
broader concern with appreciable success. Major items are:
(a) During the preparation of the recent projects, a more comprehensive
and up-front approach towards environmental protection, resettlement
and rehabilitation issues has been adopted. In 1988, NTPC appointed
consultants to study the environmental impact in the Singrauli
Region created by the development of coal mines, building of power
plants (by NTPC and UPSEB), and other industrial projects,
resettlement of the people affected by these projects, and in-
migration of skilled workers and their families. The consultants'
findings and recommendations are being reviewed by all interested
authorities. NTPC prepared in 1989, within the then proposed
Regional Power Systems Project an Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
for the Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka power projects. The EAP and
follow-up of the recommendations for the Singrauli region will be
taken up within the newly proposed NTPC-Power Generation Project;
(b) Implementation of an Action Plan to liquidate the accumulation of
arrears from SEBs;



- 11 -
(c) Development of the Power Management Institute (PMI) to provide
specialized training in management and other aspects of the power
sector. (This is in progress as a part of the Talcher Thermal Power
Project Ln 2845-IN); and
(d) Preparation of Model Bidding Documents in order to curtail the
period needed to conclude procurement of contracts.
Borrower Performance
32.        The performance of NTPC was generally commendable and met most of
the expectations of the appraisal report. All the three 500 MW units were
successfully completed ahead of the revised schedule under the well
established control of NTPC project management by successfully overcoming
numerous difficulties.
33.        As a direct outcome of development from large thermal power
stations comprising Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka projects, NTPC
has made good progress in building up its organization and manpower resources.
NTPC has accorded special importance to the training of engineers and
operating staff as well as managerial staff. This success of NTPC's third
super thermal power project has been primarily as a result of the
implementation of a well planned training program with concentration on pre-
operational spheres of activity such as planning, design and construction.
Financial Aspects
34.        The most salient feature of NTPC's operations was the spectacular
growth the corporation experienced. From FY85 to FY91, the value of average
net fixed assets increased by 38Z per annum, while electricity sales (GWh)
grew at an average of 30X per annum. The pace of NTPC's growth is however
declining. Total annual investments increased only by about 17Z over the same
period and work-in-progress has remained stagnant since FY88. NTPC's return
on net average fixed assets in operation (historically valued) declined from a
high 17Z in FY86 and FY87 to 13Z in FY91. The returns achieved are well in
excess of the 9.5Z which was required under the loan as a target from FY89.
These levels of rate of return did not, however, translate into adequate
contributions from internal resources to NTPC's investment program ( an
average of only about 12? over the last 5 years). This can be partially
explained by NTPC's ambitious expansion program. During the last years,
NTPC's rate of return has somewhat declined, because new tariffs have been
agreed upon only recently but as they are not yet applied, 500 MW units are
effectively billed at 200 MW tariff rates. This will be the case until the
new two-part tariffs are in place (para. 28). However, NTPC's level of
accounts receivable, throughout the period under review was well above the 2
months level covenanted by the Bank under Ln. 2555-IN, in 1985. The
unsatisfactory bill collection performance has not only reduced NTPC's self-
financing ratio and tightened its liquidity but, more importantly, has
prevented NTPC's traditional lenders, such as the Bank, from extending new
loans to finance NTPC's investment program. It also highlights the
shortcomings of the rate of return covenant which does not differentiates
between income accrued and income actually received.



- 12 -
35.        Under the prevailing policy environment in the Indian power sector,
NTPC is prevented from operating on a pure commercial basis. Many of the SEBs
have not been respecting the commercial terms of the supply contracts, bill
collection in the current environment is largely beyond NTPC's control. In
order to function as a commercially oriented enterprise, it is essential that
NTPC be provided by GOI with the freedom to allocate the power from its new
investments based on demand and take into account the past commercial
performance of its beneficiaries and their ability to pay for the power
allocated to them. In case of non-compliance by any of NTPC's power station
beneficiaries with agreed commercial and financial terms of their power supply
agreements, NTPC should be allowed to sell its power to other utilities.
While technical reallocation (by limiting availability of power to a
particular SEB) may be difficult to implement, commercial reallocation can be
implemented. This can be done by limiting allocations to a defaulting SEB and
charging a stiff penalty for drawals exceeding the reduced allocation. Under
the proposed time-slice operation which is currently under preparation,
agreements are being sought from Government to allow NTPC to either cut-off or
reallocate power from non-paying customers.
36.        GOI has recently indicated that entities such as NTPC would no
longer be able to rely on GOI budgetary support, have to start paying out
dividends and have to raise their own funds in the capital markets. GOI has
realized that this requires a reorientation of NTPC's financial, as well as
commercial, policies and practices. The new policies would aim at a greater
reliance on funds generated from internal resources and NTPC's ability to
raise funds from domestic and international capital markets. The details are
currently being discussed in the context of the new operation with NTPC, but
it is anticipated that the rate of return covenant would be replaced by a self
financing ratio.
Project Relationship
37.        Good relationships were maintained by the Bank with GOI, NTPC, and
other participants in the project.
Consulting Services
38.        The design and engineering work for the project as well as
construction management were carried out in-house by NTPC with very limited
support from Indian consultants in a few areas. The basic design was reviewed
by a foreign consultant (a US firm). The performance of the consultants was
satisfactory.
Procurement
39.        The Bank guidelines were strictly adhered to by NTPC for
procurement of 28 contracts involving international competitive bidding.
Eleven contracts were awarded to foreign firms for an amount estimated at
US$28.6 million. The average procurement time per contract--from the issuance
of bid documents to contract award--was planned to be nearly one year,
consisting of around 3 months for bidding and about 7-9 months for bid
evaluation. The award of the contract package on the critical path of
implementation, namely the steam generators contract, took about 15 months
(para. 11 and footnote 5). However, this was an isolated case and since then
both the Bank and NTPC have been trying to ensure that similar difficulties on



- 13 -
agreeing on award recommendation and thus delays do not occur. In an effort
to speed up procurement, a standard bidding document for supply and erection
has been finalized in April 1992 9/. This model bidding document will be
used for bidding in World Bank financed projects and is expected to cut down
substantially the time lag experienced in previous projects, including the
Second Ramagundam Power Project. NTPC should give further emphasis to
finishing promptly the payments for the contracts, so that the closing dates
of new loan(s) would not need to be extended.
Project Documentation and Data
40.        The project's legal agreements adequately reflected the Bank
Group's interests in a satisfactory execution of the project. The staff
appraisal report was comprehensive, well prepared and provided a useful
framework for the Bank and NTPC during the project implementation. The
Borrower regularly submitted Quarterly Progress Reports for the project.
These have been used for review of physical and financial performance and they
were generally used for planning the visits of the supervision missions to
India, which often included site visits in addition to review meetings at NTPC
Corporate Office, New Delhi.
9/    Covering the Instructions to Bidders and General Terms and Conditions of
Contract.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2076-IN)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Adeguacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
1.         Part III of the PCR prepared by the Bank includes statistical data
covering various aspects of construction and operation of the project. The
factual information relating to NTPC, contained in this section is generally
based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) prepared by the Bank for the
project, discussions between Bank and NTPC during various supervision missions
and quarterly project progress reports submitted by NTPC.
B. Comments on the Analysis in Part I
2.         The analysis made by the Bank under Part I is comprehensive and has
covered important aspects. The analysis is generally in order. Nevertheless,
there are certain issues which need to be further examined keeping in view the
background of developments as they took place to better appreciate the events.
These are as follows:
i) Prolect Implementation    (reference para 11 of Part I)
3.         As per SAR the first, second and third 500 MW units were to be
commissioned in July '87, July '88 and July '89 respectively based on main
Plant Award date (zero date) of October '82. A careful analysis of the
reasons for variation between these estimated dates of unit commissioning and
the corresponding actual dates would reveal that their time gap was due to
reasons beyond any reasonable control of NTPC. In fact NTPC took all possible
steps to keep to the schedule and even initiated advance procurement action
pending signing of the Loan Agreement.
4.         From Para 11 to Part I, one is likely to get an impression as if
NTPC took unduly long time in evaluation and award of their contract for the
Steam Generator Package, which was on critical path. This is not so. The
bids for the Steam Generator (SG) were opened on 31.8.1982 and NTPC finalized
the evaluation report/award recommendation in the record time of four and a
half months (against the normal 6 to 12 months period for such large and
complex packages) and forwarded the same to World Bank on 18.1.1983. M/S
BHEL, the lowest qualified bidder had submitted two offers (base offer and
alternative offer) and NTPC had recommended acceptance of the alternative
offer. The Bank while conveying its concurrence on 1.5.1983, had, however,
stipulated the award to be made as per 'Base Offer' of BHEL. Detailed
interactions took place between NTPC and Bank regarding acceptance of BHEL's
'Base Offer' or 'Alternative Offer' and a final agreement was reached in
September, 1983. Pre-award discussions/negotiations were then held with BHEL
and after resolution of various issues and tying of necessary contractual
details, the award was placed on 10/12/1983.



- 15 -
5.         The Turbo-generator Package, though awarded in October, 1983,
envisaged the 'Zero date' as July, 1983.
6.         Based on the date of award of the Steam Generator Package (Dec.
'83), the commissioning schedule for the three units works out to Dec. 88,
Dec. 89 and Dec. 90 whereas based on the zero date of July, 1983, agreed for
the Turbo-Generator Package, the commissioning schedules for the three units
were
July '88, July '89 and July '90 respectively. All the three units were
commissioned ahead of schedule by 1 to 9 months reckoned with reference to the
Zero Date of July '83 and 6 to 14 months with respect to the Zero Date as the
date of award of the SG package.
ii)  Loan Extension    (reference para 25 of Part I)
7.         The loan was originally scheduled to be closed on June 30, 1988.
However, it was extended by 45 months and was finally closed on March 31,
1992. The main reasons for extension in loan closing date are as follows:
(i)        Earlier fixation of original closing date:  Even though the
expected Project completion date as per SAR was September 30, 1989, the
original closing date was fixed as June 30, 1988. In fact, the closing date
should have been fixed originally as September 30, 1990 leaving a margin of at
least one year after the Project completion date to facilitate reimbursement
of last payments.
(ii)       Variation in SAR schedule and actual schedule:  As per the SAR the
placement of award of the main plant equipment was to take place in
October, 1982. However, the Main Plant Equipment (Turbo-generator portion)
could be awarded in October, 1983 and the Main Plant Equipment (Steam
Generator portion) in December, 1983. The reasons for variation in the Zero
Date have already been detailed in paras 3 to 5 above.
(iii)      Augmentation of Coal Handling Plant (CHP):  Originally, the Coal
Handling Plant was designed with minimum redundancies with a view to keep the
project cost low. However, provisions in the layout had been kept to augment
the system should the necessity arise. From initial feed back of operations,
augmentations of the Coal Handling System became imperative, more so due to
the fact that the quality of coal actually supplied to the plant was worse
than that considered in design of the plant. This augmentation included
installation of an additional track hopper, crusher house and associated
conveyors. The funding for the coal handling augmentation was approved in
1987 and the construction of the same was completed in 3 years after the award
of the package in January, 1988. However, extension of the loan closing date
was necessitated for conducting the performance and guarantee tests and
release of final payments thereafter.
(iv)       Final payments:  During the initial running and subsequent
performance tests, certain initial defects were observed in some of the
equipment such as boilers, boiler feed pumps, condensate extraction pumps, ash
handling plant and power transformers for which modifications were required to
be carried out in the equipment. This resulted in delay in conducting the
performance and guarantee (P&G) tests and consequently in the release of final
payments, thereby necessitating extension in the loan closing date.



- 16 -
iii)  Procurement    (reference para 39 of Part I)
8.         The average procurement time from issue of bid documents to
contract award was nearly eleven months, consisting of 3-4 months for bidding
and about 7-8 months for bid evaluation, including necessary internal
approvals, concurrence by the Bank, pre award discussions and award of
contract. Keeping in view the complexities involved in some of the Contract
Packages, the time taken seems to be reasonable.
9.         The 500 MW units for Singrauli, Korba and Ramagundam (which were
proceeding almost parallel) were the first ones for NTPC and did involve
certain peculiarities and complexities encountered in the bidding process
under international competitive bidding system, and all these problems were
effectively solved by NTPC. Keeping the above in view, the time taken in
evaluation of bids and award of the contract, does not seem to be excessive
and is comparable with other Bank financed procurement, of course with some
exceptions. Nevertheless, NTPC, with its eagerness for a constant
improvement, was successful in achieving a declining trend in the subsequent
projects.
iv) Financing Issues
Receivables    (reference para 34 of Part I)
10.        Regarding NTPC's outstanding dues against the sale of power, it may
be noted that with a view to limit the accounts receivables to a reasonable
level, a covenant was provided first in the Loan Agreement for the Rihand
Power Transmission Project and was repeated in subsequent projects viz. the
Combined Cycle Power Project, Talcher Thermal Power Project and National
Capital Thermal Power Project (NCTPP) requiring NTPC to maintain its accounts
receivables at a level not exceeding billing for the two preceding months.
The Bank is aware of NTPC's/GOI's continuous efforts to bring down the
receivables. As one of the measures GOI decided to recover through Central
appropriation an amount of Rs. 1020.50 crs. due to NTPC from SEB's as on
May, 1990. In addition to above, as a one time measure, to make a substantial
reduction in outstandings, NTPC took over the Feroze Gandhi Unchahar Thermal
Power Project (FGUTPP), (2x210 MW) of Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam
(a Government of UP undertaking). These measures resulted in the outstandings
of NTPC being brought down considerably well within the covenanted limit. By
acquiring FGUTPP, NTPC has also gained by adding to its portfolio, a
productive asset by way of adjustment of its outstandings and surcharge
thereon. During the course of discussions, it has also been realized by the
Bank that for the size and nature of NTPC's operations the covenant relating
to measure of receivable at the level of two (2) months average billing is not
realistic and needs a review 10/. Nevertheless, NTPC and the Government of
India are constantly endeavoring to keep the bills receivable with in
reasonable limits.
10/        This statement is GOI's and NTPC's perspective and does not reflect
accurately the Bank's views and position.



- 17 -
Return on Investment
11.        NTPC's return on net average fixed assets in operation
(historically valued) though declined from a high of 17Z in FY86 to 132 in
FY91, have been substantially higher than the covenanted figures (9.5Z). The
main reason for the decline is that in the case of units commissioned later
and with higher (500 MW) capacity, though higher capital cost has been
incurred, the tariffs charged are still on the basis of capital cost of 200 MW
units commissioned in first half of 1980s. With the implementation of revised
tariffs (two part tariff system as per K.P. Rao committee report) the
declining trend in the rate of return is expected to be arrested.
12.        With regard to para 29 of Part I concerning sustainability of
NTPC's medium and long term growth rate and financing requirements of overall
sectoral capacity expansion (and efficiency improvements) needed to close the
demand/supply gap, the Bank is aware that GOI has taken several measures to
augment the resources available for power sector by way of major policy
changes which encourages private sector participation, including foreign
participation, in the field of generation and /or transmission/distribution of
electricity. These measures are expected to provide substantial additionality
of funds for the power sector and help in minimizing the demand/supply gap.
NTPC's capacity expansion program would also have to be reviewed in the
context of these developments and keeping in view NTPC's excellent track
record, it is expected that necessary financial support from external
financing source including the World Bank, ADB etc. would continue.
Further, NTPC could also be able to mobilize necessary resources from domestic
capital market and external commercial borrowing . The single most important
factor to be taken care of in this regard is concerning the outstandings to be
kept within acceptable limit for which all possible actions are being taken by
NTPC and GOI, about which the Bank is being fully kept apprised. As regards
the sector as a whole also, the various SEBs have taken/are taking several
measures including those under "Operational and Financial Action Plans" OFAPs
which, are expected, to go a long way in reducing the several deficiencies.
(v) Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation         (reference paras 18 to 21
of Part I)
13.        It has been mentioned in para 18 that environmental and
rehabilitation issues outside the power plant project (i.e. of the coal mine,
other industries developed in the area) were not studied. It needs to be
appreciated that these actions were not in the purview of NTPC. Further, the
concerned organizations were obliged to comply with the applicable regulations
although the details of the actions taken by them have not been covered
(presumably not considered relevant for this Project Completion Report for
Ramagundam-II).
14.        As per the existing regulations and practices prevailing at the
time of implementation of the project, all rehabilitation measures were
implemented in consultation with the concerned State Governments. Informal
consultations with the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) about the help to be
provided by NTPC in rehabilitation and resettlement were also held although
formal consultation with the PAPs through Non-Government Organizations (NGOs)
or other similar forum were not held as this was neither stipulated by the
Bank nor was the prevailing practice. Nevertheless, as brought out in para
19, NTPC has taken adequate measures in this regard not only in compliance



- 18 -
with the prevailing regulations but also even beyond in so far these were
practicable.
15.        In fact, NTPC has taken the step to recirculate the ash water
coming back from ash dyke area as the same had high PH value. For being
discharged otherwise, the supernatant water form the ash dyke is required to
be treated to meet the standards laid down by the Andhra Pradesh State
Pollution Control Board. Accordingly an effluent treatment plant is being set
up with assistance from SFD. This plant is also used for treatment of
effluents from the main plant area. A part of the treated water shall be
recycled back to the ash handling system. As far as NTPC's role to act as
catalyst for the mines and associated urban and rural development is
concerned, NTPC has already taken a lead amongst all the industries in
conducting comprehensive EIA studies and adequate Rehabilitation, Resettlement
- mitigative measures and in monitoring programs and has been freely
exchanging the relevant information with the other industries. What is
required perhaps is a little more initiative on the part of these industries
and the support of the Government for accelerating the process.
16.        As brought out in para 20 of Part I, the need for utilization of
ash has been well recognized by NTPC and towards this end a full fledged Ash
Utilization Division has been formed at Corporate Office with Deputy General
Manager as its head, reporting to Director (Technical). This division has
initiated all necessary actions for maximum possible utilization of ash from
NTPC's power stations.
17.        Regarding use of ash for back filling of mines, NTPC had taken up
with the concerned mining authorities but they have not yet agreed. However,
the matter is again being taken up with the Coal India Limited for the use of
ash for back filling of either abandoned or active mines. As regards the
question of development of the national level technologies in mining and ash
handling, which allow back filling of ash to the mines, this aspect will have
to be studied in detail by the concerned agencies considering all its
implications including the levels of investment required and their possible
sources etc.
18.        As evident from paras 20 and 21 of Part I, NTPC has fulfilled all
its obligations in connection with environmental requirements which also
establishes that the organization's environmental group was adequately
staffed. However, the need for augmenting the unit to cater to the future
requirements is well recognized and the same is being adequately addressed
under the proposed NTPC-Power Generation Project.
iv) Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
19.        Ramagundam Thermal Power Project was the third in the series of
large thermal power projects (Singrauli and Korba being first and second
projects) and the first in the Southern Power Region of the country taken up
by NTPC for implementation during its first phase of development. The
assistance extended by the Bank contributed substantially in bringing the
project to fruition. The project was supervised closely and an adequate
number of site visits under supervision missions were made. Excellent
cooperation existed between the Bank staff and NTPC during the implementation
of the project. In fact, this relationship continued to grow and to date the



- 19 -
Bank group has extended financial &sslstaance to NTPC to the extent of nearly
US$ 4 billion for the implementation of 13 projects. With the approval of
assistance for the Second Ramagundam project, the Bank Group was involved in
the total Ramagundam Project (2100 MW). Discussions for a series of three
Bank loans for a total commitment of US $ 1 billion to support NTPC's
investment program during the eight plan period under 'time slice' concept are
in progress.
vii) Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance
20.        At the time the second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project was
envisaged, it was expected that the project, on completion would contribute
significantly to the easing of power shortages in the region. With the
satisfactory completion of the project NTPC has been able to achieve this main
objective as the generating performance of the units at this station has been
satisfactory and the power station is supplying much needed electricity to the
Southern Region, which continues to suffer from peaking as well as energy
shortages. The project has also contributed to the overall development of the
area.
21.        Right from inception, NTPC had adopted as an organizational
objective, achievement of self sufficiency in the design and engineering of
large thermal power stations and high voltage transmission lines. This
process was started in its first two (2) projects itself i.e. Singrauli and
Korba (both financed by the Bank) and NTPC has substantially achieved this
goal in the Ramagundam project. For the first time, entire design and
engineering for this project were successfully done by NTPC in-house with very
limited support from consultants.
22.        NTPC has recognized training, both managerial and technical, as one
of the important needs for organizational development. It is significant that
the Korba and Farakka power projects assisted by the Bank include procurement
of a full scope 500 MW thermal power plant training simulator. The Korba
project also has a 200 MW training simulator. This has been very useful in
training of power plant operators and technicians and has contributed
significantly in efficient and reliable operation of NTPC's Power Plants.
23.        It has been recognized that NTPC has set for itself a tight time
schedule of commissioning 500 MW units within 5 years from the date of order
of the main plant equipment. To achieve this objective, NTPC developed its
Integrated Project Management and Control System (IPMCS) taking into account
the work culture and working environment in which NTPC is operating. The
IPMCS has been successfully used by NTPC which is evident from the fact that
almost all of its projects were completed in time and in some cases, even
ahead of schedule.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2076-IN)
PART III: STATISTICAL SUMMARY
Related Bank Loans
Loan No.                                               Year of
Title                         Purpose                  Approval           Status
Loan 1648-IN        To help (a) solve    January    Closed in       The project
Credit 874-         rationing in the      1979       June 1987      was success-
IN/Ramagundam       Southern Regions                                fully com-
Thermal Power       by providing three                              pleted.
200 MW generating
units; (b) assist
GOI in achieving
its objective of
further advancing
the regional and
ultimately the
national integra-
tion of the power
subsector.
Proiect Timetable
Date          Date               Date
Item                            Planned        Revised            Actual
- Appraisal mission             01-02/81                          01-02/81
- Loan/Credit Negotiation                                         11/81
- Board Approval                                                  12/22/81
- Loan Signaturo                                                  01/06/82
- Loan Effectiveness                                              03/16/82
- Loan Closing                  06/30/88       (i)   03/31/89    03/31/92
(ii)  03/31/90
(iii) 03/31/91
(iv)  03/31/92
- Loan Completion                                                07/31/92



l 21    {
Loan Disbursements
Disbursements (in US$ million)
Loan 2076-IN
Bank
Fiscal Year         Estimated            Actual        Actual Z of
and Semester        Cumulative        Cumulative         Estimate
1983  1
2                  18
1984  1                   30                -
2                  60               30.5             11.0
1985  1                   66               30.5            11.0
2                 132               39.7             14.3
1986  1                 216                47.5            17.1
2                 288               72.2             26.0
1987  1                 294                85.3            30.8
2                 300  /a          135.1             48.7
1988  1                                   149.1            53.8
2                                  192.5             69.4
1989  1                                   205.9            74.3
2                                  231.8             83.6
1990  1                                   235.1            84.8
2                                  261.6             94.4
1991  1                                   263.3            95.0
2                                  270.4             97.5
1992  1                                   270.4            97.5
2                                  274.1             98.9
1993  1                                   277.2 /b        100.0
/a US$20 million was cancelled on November 20, 1989.
lb The loan was closed on March 31, 1992, against the original
schedule of June 30, 1988. Total disbursement under this loan
was US$277,167,342.62. The undisbursed balance of
US$2,832,657.38 was cancelled on August 28, 1992, when the final
disbursement under the Loan was made.



- 22 -
Prol-ct ImDlementation
Indicators                                        Appraisal Estimate            Revised Estimate       Actual
(1) Installation of three 600 MW units        To be co_Tissconed:/           To be commis-        Co_is-
with associated civil work:                                              sioned Tn:a          sioned In:
No. 4 500 MW unit                       July 1987                      July 1988               /b
No. 6 600 MW unit                       July 1988                      July 1989            June 1988
No. 6 600 MW unit                       July 1989                      July 1990            March 1989
October
1989
(1) Installation of 400 Kv transmission
lines along with associated substa-       To be completed by
tions:                                    matching with units                                 Completed
(i)  Bangalore   Salem                                                                       in:
181 km                                                                                  May 1988
(ii)  Ramagundam   Nagarjunasagar                                                             August 1987
534 km                                                                                  October
(iii)  Nagarjunsuagar-Cuddapah (II)                                                            1988
239 km                                                                                  March 1989
(iv)  Nagarjunasagar - Munirabad
407 km
/a  Commissioning means synchronization.
Lk  Datoe  of commercial operation were as follows:
No. 4 600 MW November 1988
No. 6 600 MW September 1989
No. 6 600 MW April 1991



- 23 -
Project Costs and Financing
A. Comparison of Estimated and Actual Project Costs
S.                  Item                 SAR       Actual       SAR     Actual
No.                                       (In Rs. Million)    (In US$ Million)
A.   Power Plant & Facilities
1.  Preliminary & Civil Works      680.80   1,614.57    85.10        95.86
2.  Mechanical Works             3,820.80   8,591.77   477.60       587.41
3.  Electrical Works               577.60      572.52    72.20       38.74
4.  Coal Transportation System    135.20       275.16    16.90       14.22
Sub-total              5,214.40  11,054.02   651.80      736.23
B.   Transmission System              1,051.20   1,764.60   131.40       130.60
C.   Air Plane                             8.00     N/A         1.00     N/A
D.   Engineering Services and           824.00      620.90   103.00       41.33
Administration
E.   Contingency (Physical)              347.60       *        43.50       *
F.   Contingency (Price)              3,862.40        *       482.80       *
G.   Taxes and Duties                 1,232.00        *       154.00       *
TOTAL PROJECT COST              12,539.60  13,439.52 1,567.50       908.16
(excluding IDC & WCM)
H.   Interest During Construction       662.90      468.40    82.90       32.17
I.   Working Capital Margin                         183.60                12.10
TOTAL PROJECT COST              13,202.50  14,091.52 1,650.40       952.43
* Included in respective package costs.



- 24 -
Prolect Financing
(US5 '000)
Planned (Loan
Source                         Asreement)            Revised              Final
(USS '0U0)          (US5 '000)   X       (US5 '000)   Z
1. IDA/IBRDL
Category
TIT)  olTers and aux-
iliary and mech-
anica1 equipment,
and associated
erection work           252,000             234,000             221,150
(2) Electrical and
transmission
equipment, and
associated erec-
tion work                37,000              55,000              55,827
(3) Consultants'
services                  1,000               1,000                 185
(4) Air transmission
vehicle La                    -               3,500                   0
(5) UnallocatEid             10,000               6,500                   0
Difference due to cross
exchange rates on Special
Account payments              -                    -                  5
Revised subtotal              -                                 277,167      29.2
Cancelled tb                            -                        20,000
Cancelled (August 28, 1992 --
undisbursed balance)        -                                   2,833
Subtotal                300,000   18.2      300,000             300,000
2. KfW (FRG) /c                 72,700    4.4                           74,100 /g   7.8
3. OPEC Ld                      30,000    1.8                           30,000       3.2
4. Saudi Fund /e                43,680    2.6                           47,600 Lj   5.0
5. EXIMBANK of Japan /f        176,370   10.7                          192,035 Lj  20.2
6. Domestic                  1,027,650   62.3                          328,095 L&  34.6
Total                     1,650,400  100                            948,997       100
La  An air transmission vehicle (executive airplane) was originally included in
Category (1) and subsequently revised to explicitly categorized in Category
(4). This item was eventually excluded from the scope of the Bank finance for
the project.
Ib US$20 million was cancelled on November 20, 1989.
The cofinancing agreement with KfW of Federal Republic of Germany was signed
on September 28, 1984 in the amount of DM 145 million (equivalent to US$72.7
million) to cover 3 units 500 MW turbine senerators.
/d  The cofinancing agreement with OPEC was sIgned on may 21, 1982 in the amount
of $30 million.
/e  Saudi Fund of Saudi Riyals of 172 million was signed on May 14, 1985 to cover
civil works for water treatment plant, procurement of three diesel locomo-
tives, miscellaneous mechanical and electrical equipment.
/f  Japanese '62 billion was funded for three projects and of which JY 27,110
million (equivalent to Rs 2,575.0 million) was allocated to this project.
].  Based on the conversion rates prevailing on dates of actual disbursements.



- 25 -
Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicator                                   Estimated at closing
date/full development
(As of December 31, 1991)
1. Energy Generation (GWh)                   Unit 4(500 MW)   7,734.77
(Since Commercial                        Unit 5(500 MW)   5,824.87
operation)                               Unit 6(500 MW)   2,037.89
Total        15,597.53
2. Power Transmission                        To the Beneficiaries
in the Southern Region
B. Economic Impact
(1)       In the appraisal report, the return on investment was calculated for
the second phase expansion by 1,500 MW of the first 600 MW stage of the
Ramagundam thermal power station to demonstrate the relationship between
tariffs and the economic cost of the development. It was defined as the
discount rate at which the present worth of the economic cost associated with
the development equals the present worth of the economic benefits over the
life cycle of the development. The measurable costs included:
(a)   capital and labor costs involved in the development of generation
and transmission facilities;
(b)   the annual operation and maintenance costs; and
(c)   fuel costs.
The benefits were measured in terms of the revenues to be derived from the
sale of electricity.
(2)        Based on measurable economic costs and benefits associated with the
1,500 MW development, the ex-ante internal economic rate of return (IERR) was
estimated at about 15Z (for economic tariff of 25 paisa/kWh and consumer
surplus of 12 paisa/kWh) and about 8Z (for economic tariff of 25 paisa/kWh
only). For PCR, the benefits were calculated by the following two ways: (i)
weighted average of sales tariffs of SEBs of Rs 0.70/kWh was applied; and (ii)
total tariff of Rs 1.58/kWh including consumer surplus of Rs 0.88/kWh 11/
was applied.  The resultant ex-post IERRs for the 1500 MW development were (i)
about 3.3Z, and (ii) about 24Z. The former is based on relatively low tariff
rates in the Southern Region and relatively higher coal cost 12/.
11/ The consumer surplus as per SAR for Second Maharashtra Power Project was
used as a reference.
12/  Comparison between Ramagundam II and Rorba II projects for sales tariffs
and coal price is as follows:
Ramagundam II    Korba II
-- Weighted average of sales
tariffs of SEBs (Rs/kWh)             0.70             1.06
-- Coal price (Rs/ton)                426.75           203.53



- 26 _
(3)        Comparison of tariffs in SAR and PCR is summarized below.
Share of Regional
State                 Consumption (Z)      Average Tariff (Paise/kWh)
SAR         PCR      SAR 1980-81    PCR 1990-91
Andhra Pradesh       23            27.6         36.0             70.6
Tamil Nadu           41            22.4         31.0             71.7
Karnataka            24            16.4         23.4             70.1
Kerala               12            11.7         19.5             56.3
Goa                   n.a           4.8                          95.0
Pondicherry           n.a           2.4                          68.9
Unallocated           n.a          14.7                           n.a
Total             100         100.0
Weighted Averaged - financial                   29.0             70.0
- economic                  25.2              n.a.
C. Financial Impact
(1)     The principle beneficiaries of the power generated from the Ramagundam
power station are the state electricity boards in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and
Andhra Pradesh which are consuming about 85Z of the power generated. The
balance of the available electricity has been supplied to Kerala SEB and Goa
and more recently to Pondicherry. APSEB and KEB have had good payment
records, while TNSEB and KSEB are at times late with their payments. On the
average dues outstanding from sales of the Ramagundam Power Station are
currently below 2 months of sales equivalent.
(2)     NTPC's actual and projected financial statements for the period FY85-
FY91 are presented in Annexes 2 to 4. The most salient feature of NTCP's
operations was the spectacular growth the corporation experienced.   From FY85
to FY91, the value of average net fixed assets increased by 38Z per annum,
while electricity sales (GWh) grew with an average of 30Z per annum. The pace
of NTPC's growth is however declining. Total annual investments increased
only by about 17Z over the same period and work-in-progress has remained
stagnant since FY88. In FY90 the value of net assets in operation became
larger than work-in-progress.   During the period under review, net profits
even grew by 41Z per annum, but NTPC's return on net average fixed assets in
operation (historically valued) declined from a high 17Z in FY86 and FY87 to
13Z in FY91. The returns achieved are well in excess of the 9.5Z which was
required under the loan as a target from FY89. GOI's current policy is to set
tariffs for NTPC power stations an a cost-plus basis with specific normative
operational parameters. NTPC's better financial performance should be largely
credited to NTPC having operated the power stations at efficiencies well above
the norms and standards used for the purpose of tariff setting. On the other
hand, while NTPC's performance was much better than most other public enter-
prises, the FY91 returns were negative in real terms. Moreover, NTPC's
contributions to investments from internal resources was relatively modest and
the level of accounts receivable, throughout the period under review was well
above the 2 months level covenanted by the Bank under Ln. 2555-IN, in 1985.
The following table represents the key operational results forecasted in the
appraisal report compared with actuals:



-27-
SECONO KOR8A ANO RAMAGUlNGAM THERMAL P068R PROJECTS
...... ..... ............   ..................
Y.' r endiNO March 01            1985       1986       1987       1988       1989      1990      1991
.........................................  ...................................... ................  ................... ................  ................... ................  .................. ..................................................
Fon,!w   Actual Fore-ast   Actual Forecast   Actuat Forecst   Actul Forecast  Actual Forecast  Actua  Forcast  Act-ta
l"ctricity  S.tn. (GCA>         6,551    8,316    9,893   12,839   13,261    14,408   17,883   17,533  24,070   248T75  30,651   35,421  36,086   40,306
A-.ea # lk Tariff IP/Kc) (Garatio)  33  37   33   38    34    40   34    41   35   46   36    52  36    53
Total Ope9otino  r- .S          2,299    3,438    3,513    5,294    4,78Z  6,453    6,526    8,622   8,954    12,748  11,599   20,573  13,900   24,207
Totat oparating EIp-nos          1,376    2,042    2,131  2,943    2,771  3,522    3,6O    4,712   5,342  7,559   6,992   12,567   8,397    14,577
1at Profit                        257  875   336  1,830  589    2,118  625    3,024  860    3,308    1,186  5,366   1,993  7,009
A~rg8 Mat FictI  8ss8ts (0Itoric)  16,281    10,957   21,175   14,016   26,808   17,209   35,582   23,856  45,041    35,078  53,332   53,567  57,919   75,48z
Not. of 8.turr on Historic Assets (X  6X  132  72  17%   82   17X   72   162  82   15  9S    15X  10  138
ODarsting Rtio (X)                602   59%  612   56X  58X   552  59X   552  602  592  602   61X  60S  602
Cctnb.,tiofl to Construct,om  (Ar-Ja   2  62  72  82  -1X  122  98  142  8X  25X  10X  932   138    5002  163
Debt Service C-corg               2.0  3.3   1.8  4.9   1.7  4.0   1.4  3.9  1.4   2.4  1.3  2.5  1.3  2.5
D*OtEquity Ratio                34/66    32/68    37/63    36/64    41/59    42/58    45/55    43/57    47/53   47/53    45/55   47/53    4/a58   43/57
Current Ratio                     7.3  1.0   6.0    .6  5.9  1.6   5.6  1.7  5.2   1.8  4.7  1.8  7.2  1.9
Accou,ts tec.i-6bls (t of days)   32   184   32   163   32   164   32   177   32   175  32   210  32   233
(3)      As can be seen from the table above, NTPC has in fact outperformed
most of the financial targets set in the appraisal report, the exceptions
being the much lower level self financing and poor bill collection. While the
lower level of self financing can be partly attributed to the much larger size
of the investment program than anticipated during appraisal, the level of
accounts receivable has consistently been above 5 months and was even 7.7
months of sales equivalent at the end of FY91 13/. The situation would
have been worse if the Government had not at times, settled part the outstand-
ing bills on behalf of the SEBs through central appropriations.    Also, the
increased working capital requirements resulting from the poor bill collection
performance, considerably reduced NTPC's ability to contribute to its invest-
ment program from its internal resources. NTPC's average self financing ratio
from FY87-91 was only about 121 and NTPC was increasingly confronted with
tightening liquidity situation.    The unsatisfactory bill collection perfor-
mance has not only reduced NTPC's self-financing ratio, but more importantly,
its inability to collect in time, has prevented NTPC's traditional lenders,
such as the Bank, to extend new loans to finance new plants in NTPC's invest-
ment program.
(4)      Under the prevailing policy environment in the Indian power sector,
whereby the Government determines fixed allocation for supply of power of NTPC
plants and NTPC is unable to either cut-off or re-allocate power from non
paying customers, NTPC is prevented from operating on a pure commercial basis.
Since many of the SEBs have not been respecting the commercial terms of the
supply contracts, bill collection in the current environment is largely beyond
NTPC's control. Bill collection for power generated from the project has been
much better, but most of NTPC sales are presently in the Northern and Eastern
Regions, which have also been the major defaulters in terms of payment of
bills. Under a new time-slice operation which is currently under preparation,
agreements are being sought from Government to allow NTPC to either cut-off or
reallocate power from non-paying customers.
13/ In May 91, GOI decided to settle an amount of Rs.10 billion through
central appropriations over a period of four years. In addition, in
January 1992, NTPC took over the Unchahar Power Station from UPSEB, NTPC's
largest defaulter, with the proceeds to be used to off-set the accumulated
arrears. As a result, the average level of NTPC's accounts receivable at
the end of February 1992 was about two months of sales equivalent, not
taking into account the Rs.5 billion, which is still to be paid by GOI
through central appropriations in FY93 and FY94.



- 28 -
FY87 - FY91
Year Ending March 31, 1991       Forecast       2       Actual       2
(Rs million)          (Rs million)
Total Internal Cash
Generation                     24,843        61       36,518      29
Equity Contributions              2,311         6        35,876     29
Capital Receipts                      0                     363      0
Loans                               -                   34,404      27
Bonds                                                   18,539      15
Total Borrowings                 13,615        33       52,943      42
Total Sources                    40,769       100      125,700    100
Total Investments                20,491        50      100,977      80
Total Debt Service               18,110        44       13,483      11
Increase in Working Capital       2,169         5       11,241       9
Total Applications               40,769       100      125,700    100
Contribution to construction         222                     12Z
Debt service coverage               1.4                     2.7
(5)     During the FY87-FY91 period, NTPC met 422 of its total financing
requirements including debt service and increased working capital needs by
borrowing. The balance was met equally from internal cash generation and GOI
equity contributions. This denotes a heavy reliance on GOI support, particu-
larly if we take into account that a large part of the borrowings were loans
made by multilateral and bilateral agencies to GOI which were onlent to NTPC.
Although the interest rates were in line with those charged in the domestic
capital markets (up to 152 in the period under review), GOI generally took the
foreign exchange risk, and the terms (20 years, including 5 years grace) were
more favorable than commercial credits. Also, GOI has ploughed all profits
back into NTPC's operation, by not requiring any dividends to be paid out.
During NTPC's initial period of growth this was a sound policy, but it has
also shielded NTPC and its customers from paying the full cost of the power
generated by NTPC. GOI has recently indicated that entities such as NTPC
would no longer be able to rely on GOI budgetary support, have to start paying
out dividends and that it would have to raise its own funds in the capital
markets. GOI has realized that this requires a reorientation of NTPC's
financial, as well as commercial, policies and practices. The new policies
would aim at a greater reliance on funds generated from internal resources and
NTPC's ability to raise funds from domestic and international capital markets.
The details are currently being discussed in the context of a new wtime-slice"
operation for NTPC.



- 29 -
Status of Covenants
COVENANT                               SUBJECT                        STATUS
Project Agreement Dated July 11. 1980
PA 2.02       NPTC shall engage consultants to assist in         Complied with
the design and engineering of the Project.
PA 2.04      NTPC shall take out insurance on goods Im-          Complied with
ported for tho Project.
PA 2.06      NTPC shall maintain appropriate records on          Complied with
the Project and furnish regular progress
reports to the Bank.
PA 2.06      NTPC shall furnish a complotion report with-    Being complied
in six months after the closing date of the
Project.
PA 2.08      NTPC shall properly acquire all necessary           Complied with
land for the Project.
PA 2.09      NTPC shall ensure compliance with appropri-         Complied with
ate environmental standards in execution and
operation of tho Project.
PA 3.03      NTPC shall inform the Bank in advance, of           Complied with
any proposal to change NTPC's limitation to
borrow funds.
PA 3.04      NTPC shall take out insurance against risk          Complied with
in such amounts as will be consistent with
appropriate practice.
PA 3.06      NTPC shall enter Into bulk supply contracts         Complied with
with SEB customers allocated a share of ele-
ctricity supply from the Projoct.
PA 4.02      NTPC shall submit audited financial state-          86/86: Complied
ments and auditor's report within 7 months         88/87: Complied
of FY end.                                         87/88: Complied
88/89: Complied
89/90: Complied
90/91: Complied
PA 4.03      NTPC shall achieve an annual rate of return         Superseded by covonents under subsx-
of not less than 9.6% from FY90/91 onwards.        quent NTPC Projects requiring 7% ROR
in FY84/86 through FY89/90 and 9.6%
ROR from FY90/91 to FY94/96 and a
satisfactory level thereafter -
being complied with. /a
Loan Agreement Dated January 6, 1982
LA 2.02 (b)  GOI shall maintain a special account in             Complied with (Opened 08/87 31O.OM)
dollars as amended 06/03/87
LA 3.01 (b)  GOI shall enter into a subsidiary loan              Complied with
agrement with NTPC under terms satisfactory         (The actual lnterest rate was 12%
to the Bank (not lose  than 11.76% per annum).    per annum).
LA 3.03      GOI shall grant import permission for goods         Complied with
financed under the Project and make
available foroign exchange funds required
therefore.



- 30 -
COVENANT                 SUBJECT                                      STATUS
LA 3.04       OI shall onsuro adequate coal supplies for        Complied with
the Project.
LA 8.04      GOI to furnish the Bank not later than 6            86/86: Complied
months after the end of tho FY the auditor's    86/87: Complied
report in respect of the special account          87/88: Complied
(amended 06/03/87)                                88/89: Complied
89/90: Complied
90/91: Complied
LA 4.02(a)   NTPC to maintain a system of SOEs (amended          Complied with
LA 4.02      GOI to submit tho Bank not later than               87/88: Complied
b(ii)     6 months after end of FY auditor's opinion         88/89: Complied
in regard to the statements of expenditure        89/90: Complied
submitted during tho year (amended 03/16/87)    90/91: Complied
/a NTPC shall enter into bulk supply contracts with SEB customers allocated
a share or *lectricity supply from the Project.



- 31 -
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Staff inputs in carrying out the various tasks through the project
cycle from preparation in FY81 to completion in FY93 were as follows:
Task                          Input (Staff-weeks)
Project Preparation                            2.2
Project Appraisal                             24.3
Loan Negotiations                              3.9
Loan Processing                                8.2
Project Supervision                           59.7
Project Completion Report                      4.2
Project Administration                         2.9
Total                                 105.4
B.  Missions
Project Cycle   Month/   Number of       Days      Speciali-  Performance   Type of
year      persons    in field   zation la  rating /b         Problems /c
Through Appraisal
Identification Ld
Preparation /d
Preappraisal L
Appraisal        01/81         4
Supervision
Supervision 1   02/81          3          25       E,FA,EC         1
Supervision 2   06(84          1          21       FA              1
Supervision 3   05/85          2          15       E,FA            1
Supervision 4   09/86          3          19       E,E,FA          1
Supervision 5   09/87          3          10       E,FA,FA         1
Supervision 6   01/88          3          20       E,FA,FA         1         PR
Supervision 7   09/88          3          29       E,FA,EC         1          I
Supervision 8   07/89          1          11       E               1
Supervision 9   02/90          1           8       E               1
Supervision 10  07/90          1           9       E               1
Supervision 11  07/91          1           9       E, FA           1
PCR              02/92         1           9       E, FA
la E: Engineer, LO: Loan Officer, FA: Financial Analyst. EC: Economist.
7b 1 - No or minor problem, 2 - moderate problem, 3 - major problem.
7c I: Implementation delays, PR: Procurement problems and delays.
7h Identification was made by GOI in 1974. Preparation and preappraisal were made
by NTPC in 1978.



.-Poot Internal SEco oic sets of Return for Roemoa,dam 11
I.6P.Coel(baIdk)   0.645 6. 0ta.Irca    (0)           am                                                                                              (Rc WII 1I-/)
2.C..l CO(P*/sb)   426.76 7. Aug. Coe,9.   (S)           7
3.011 Cs(Re/kl)  4i1l.96 6, 400kV 1*s..   (S)          2.6
4. UK   p./W1t/V.    400 9. T00 Lo"1.     (S)         la.a
5.S..afltiVaI.aV .dv a tariff of 0. 0A.jkw
CA,..ar oorpla. Imcludedi t.SbMsjki
8.pondlture                                                                       Benefit..
Pro.r 51t.10             Troo.l-alon Sy.L..   E36                ToLal                                              Insded    Inds.d
Operating Coata                                T10 Coot          Coot of                  Rovenu.  Conwe.er Ido.   Total Projeclot.1 Project
Capltal  --------------------------Total   Capital      Total   Capital           Supply t.oO.aaratiloSlal    fro   S.,rple  1/92/10011aaflt,  S.eflt.
Year    Coat    Coal      ll     on       Ps      Coot   0D14  TS        Coot   0C14      End-oro(H)    (CM)    End-Ua.rsinclwded /b         (Baa.)      (lnclud.comau
s"-44      622.6                             622.9    61.9          61.9   266.5             971.2                                      U5.2      (971.2)     (971.2)
1944-66    63 .1                             663.1    91.9          91.9   306.0           1,060.0                                     56.6   (1.040.0)   (1.060.0)
196-66  1,121.0                           1,121.0   146.6         146.6   561.7           1,763.2                                      61.4   (1,703.2)   (1,763.2)
1966-67   1,567.2                          1,567.2   264.3         266.3   720.9           2.664.4                                      64.9   (2,664.4)   (2.664.4)
1947-66  1,953.6                           1,953. a 30.3           36.3   696.7            3236.6                                       70.2   (3,236.6)   (3,236.6)
1 1966-69  2.016.4   261.2    13.0    93.0 2,472.6   366.2  13.1   371.4   927.1    73.1  3,544.1  1,279.9   945.6  60.9  1,367.6    76.6   (3.236.2)   (2,476.6)
2 1969-90    660.0  1,099.3    40.7   290.4  1,960.4    41.9  13.6   56.4   253.0    76.1 2,361.0  4.00.1  2,960.6  1.953.4  4.409.1    61.1        (413.6)    2,042.1
3 1990-1   1.187.6  1,047.0    36.6   271.4 2.661.0   199.4  16.6   214.9   546.4    69.1  3,401.4  3,616.6  2,019.7  1,911.3  4,326.4    69.3   (1.466.1)       924.0
4 1991-92    454.1  2,546.4    67.0   600.0 3,469.6      0.4  15.6    16.0   206.9    93.2  3,607.7  6,556.4  6,324.7  4,427.3  9,993.0   100.0      619.      6,1S6.S
1992-93    241.9 2,263.6    63.9   600.0 3,169.6             16.6    1.6   111.3    96.6 3.411.6 6,280.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0        566.0      6.221.1
6 1993-94    470.6  ,26.6    63.9   6.0 8,416.4               16.6    16.6   216.6    99.6 3.760.3 6,260.0  6,096.6  4,257.7  9,632.6   100.0        617.4     66 "2. 6
7 1994-95          2,263.6    53.9   600.0 2.647.7            16.6    15.6             99.8 3,063.0  6,260.0  6.096.8 4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1.204.7      0.669.9
a 196-96           2,263.0    6.9   60.0 2,947.7              15.6    16.6             99.6  3,063.0  8,260.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7    6,549.9
9 1996-97          2,263.6      3.9  600.0 2,947.7            16.6    15.6             99.  3,063.0  6,250.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,532.9   100.0    1,204.7     6,59.9
10 1997-96          2,263.6    5.9   600.0 2,947.7             10.6    16.6             99.6 3,063.0 5,260.0  6,096.5  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7      6,69.9
11 199S-99          2,23.6    63.9   600.0 2,947.7             15.5    16.6             99.5  2,093.0 6,260.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9.632,9    100.0    1,204.7    6,59.9
12 1999-2000        2,26. 6    63.9    00.0 2,947.7            16.6    16.6             99.0 5,063.0  0,260.0  6,096.0 4,267.7 9,42.9   100.0    1,204.7    6,54.9
13 2000-01          2,261.6     3.9   600.0 2,947.7            16.6    16.6             99.6  3,063.0 6,260.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7    6,56".9
14 2001-00          2,263.6    63.9   60.0 2,947.7             16.5    15.1             99.0 3,093.0  6,250.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7     6,569.9
16 2002-0           2,263.6      .9   600.0 2.947.7            16.6    16.6             99.8 3,063.0 6,250.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7      6,59.9
16 2003-04          2,263.6    63.9   600.0 2,947.7            16.5    16.5             99,0 3,063.0  6,260.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7    6,56.9
17 2004-06          2,263.5    53.9   600.0 2,947.7            16.6    16.5             99.6  3.063.0  6,260.0  6.096,5  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7    6,569.9
16 2005-06          2,263.6     3.9  600.0 2,947.7             16.6    16.5             99.6 3,063.0  6,200.0  6,098.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7     6,569.9
19 2006-07          2,263.6     U.9    0.0  2,947.7            16.6    15.5             99.6  3,063.0  6,200.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7    6,59.9
20 2007-6           2,263.8       .9  600.0 2,947.7            15.6    15.5             99.5 3,063.0  6,250.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7     6, 59.9
21 2006-09          2,263.6    83.9   600.0 2,947.7            18.6    15.6             99.6  5,063.0 6,250.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7     6, 59.9
22 2009-10          2,298.6     ".9   600.0 2,947.7            16.5    15.&             99.6  3,063.0  6,260.0  6,096.6  4,267.7 S,6G2.9   100.0    1.204.7    6,59.9
23 2010-11          2,263.6     ".9   600.0 2,647.7            15.6    16.6             99.6 3,063.0 6,260.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,632.9   100.0    1,204.7      6,U9.9
24 2011-iU          2,2S.6    U.9    00.0 2,947.7              16.5    15.5            9".6  3,063.0 6,260.0  6,096.6  4,267.7  9,63.9   100.0    1,204.7       6,69.9
Xii           0.0081      0.241
/b Joflatla  1ed.; #a per CO..41  pmeIeNwaormd   IM9
is C_O.Ur wIut go per OM of G_ N4 ti"reAtra Pwer Pr oject
i4



SECOND RAAGUiNDAN THERNAL POUER PROJECT
NATIONAL THERNAL POWER CORPOBATION LTD.
INCONE STATEMENTS
(in million of Rupees)
Year ending March 31                                   1985              1986               1987             1988              1989             1990             1991
,,,,,,,, ,,.,.......  ,., .......,..,,..,  .. ....,,,,,, ,,,...................................... ....... ............  --- - -----  ................  ----------  ---- ------   - , - ------- ..........................> ...............
IMCCOE DESCRIPTION                                 Forecast   Actual Forecast  Actual forecast  Actual forecast   Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual
Electricity Generation (GWh)                                   9,248            14,174            15,921             19,378           27,296           38,595           43,965
Less: Aux Cons.(GCh)                                             932             1,335             1,513              1,845           2,421             3,174            3.659
Electricity Sates (CGh)                               6,551    8,316    9,893   12,839   13,261   14,408   17,U83   17,533  24,070   24,875  30,651   35,421  36,086   40,306
Average Bult Tariff (P/Kih) (Generation)                 33       37       33       38       34       40       34       41      35      .46       36       52      36       53
Operating Revenues:
Electricity Sates                                   2,164    3,077    3,310    4,829    4,510    5,736    6,161    7,201   8,461   11,460  10,970   18,376  13,160   21,254
Tranasission Charges                                           148               284               555             1,176              993             1,691           2,404
Electricity Duty                                      134      111      203      III      272       87      366       93    494       179     629      294     740      347
Other Incalim                                                  102                70                75                152              116              212             201
Total Operating Revenue                               2,299    3,438    3,513    5,294    4,782    6,453    6,526    8,622   8,954   12,748  11,599   20,573  13,900   24,207
Operating Expenses:
Fuel Cost                                             518    1,252      898    1,952    1,259    2,360    1,799    3,165   2,600    5,285   3,557    8,985   4,461    9,760
Operation nd Maintenance                              329      404      445      483      547      616      729      807    964    1,175   1,180    1,745   1,323    2,105
Depreciation                                          395      265      585      377      694      448      986      579   1,285      912   1,626    1,396   1,873    2,251     w
Electricity Duty                                      134      112      203      111      272       87      366       93     494      179     629      294     740      347      1
Others*                                                         10                21                11                69                8               147             113
Total Operating Expenses                              1,376    2,042    2,131    2,943    2,771    3,522    3,880    4,712   5,342    7,559   6,992   12,567   8,397   14,577
Operating Incaoe Before Interest                        922    1,396    1,382    2,350    2,011    2,931    2,647   3,910   3,612    5,189   4,606   8,006   5,503    9,630
Interest Chargeable to Revenue                   665      492    1,045      570    1,422      866    2,022    1,248   2,752    1,791   3,422    2,730  3,510    3,472
Profit before Tax                                       257      904      336    1,781      589   2,065       625    2,662     860   3,398   1,184    5,276   1,993    6,158
Less:Provision for Tax                                                               1                 1                                  0
Profit after Tax                                        257      904      336    1,780      589   2,064       625    2,662     860    3,398   1,184    5,276   1,993    6,158
Prior Period Income (Net)                                        (28)               50                53               362              (90)              90              851
Net Profit                                              257      875      336    1,830      589    2,118      625    3,024     860   3,308   1,184   5,366   1,993    7,009
Average Net fixed Assets (Historic)                  16,281   10,957   21,175   14,016   26,808   17,209   35,582   23,856  45,041   35,078  53,332   53,567 57,919   75,482
Rate of Return on Historic Assets (X)                     6X      13X       71      17X       81      17X       7X      16X      8X      15X      9X      151    10X       13X
Operating Ratio (X)                                      60X      59%      61X      56X      581      55X      59X      55    60X       591     601      611     60X      601
a   Includes deferred expenses, prliPiprary expenses, bonds expenses, rebate to customers and contingencies.



SECOND RAHAGQJNDAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
NATIONAL 1HERMAL POWER CORPORATION LTD.
SoURCES AND APPLICATION Of FUNDS
(in millon of Rtpees)
Year ending march 31                                   1985     1905      1986     1986     1907     1987     1988     1988    1989     1989    1990     1990   1991      1991
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.....   ...   .   .      ............... .........................  --- -- -- -- --  ----- ---- ----  ----- ---- ----  ----------------........ ---------------......... ---------------  ---------------
SOURCES DESCRIPTION                                Forecast  Actual Forecast  Actual Forecast  Actual Forecast  Actuat Forecast Actual Forecast Actusl forecast Actuat
] .....---      ---- ----- ---- -----  ---- ----- ---            ----.- .-     ---..... ..-----     ------- -    -*--*-- *- --     *---*-----   * ----.-....---......   ---.--   -------- . ----------------     -------------... ... ........---     ----------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Incooe before Interest                      922    1,396    1,382    2,350   2,011    2,931    2,64.7   3,910  3,612    5,189   4,606   8,006  5,503   9,630
Prlor Period Inco.e (Met)                               0      (28)       0       50        0       53        0      362       0       (90)      0       90       0      851
DepreciationM)                                        395      265      614      377      694      448      986      579   1,285       912   1,626    1,396   1,873    2,251
Total Internal Cash Generation                      1,317    1,632    1,996    2, 17    2,705    3,432    3,633   4,851   4,897   6,011   6,232    9,492   7,376   12,732
Equity Contributions                                  4,694    4,859    4,257   6,808    2,311    5,909         0    6,879            3,682            6,594            12,812
Capital Receipt                                                   26                 0                114               24                87              21              I11
Borrowings
........... 
Loans Contracted                                             4,416             5,131             5,865             4,836            11,972           6,712            5,019
Bonds                                                            0              1,634            4,300             4,394             1,499           4,346            4,000
Total sorrowings                                    3,355    4,416    4,750    7,365   4,594   10,165    5,742    9,230   3,188   13,471       91   11,058            9,019
TOTAL SOURCES                                         9,366   10,933   11,003   16,950   9,610   19,620    9,375   20,984   8,085   23,251   6,323   27,165   7,376  34,680
APPLICATION OF FULDS
Totat Investment                                    8,541   10,011    9,795   14,048   7,802   17,806    6,655   17,630  4,243   19,064   1,306  20,397    484  26,079   ''
Debt Service
Interest Charged to Operations                        665      492    1,045      570    1,422      866    2,022    1,248   2,752    1,791   3,422    2,730  3,510    3,472
Amrtizatlon of Loans                                    0        -       63        -      217        -      499              845      747   1,376    1,087  2,045    1,542
Totat Debt Service                                    665      492    1,108      570    1,639      866    2,521    1,248   3,597    2,538   4,799   3,817  5,555    5,015
Increase (Decrease) In Uorking Capital                  159      430      101    2,332      168      947      199    2,106    245    1,649      218   2,951   1,337   3,586
Provislon for Tax                                         0        0        0        1        0        1        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                            9,366   10,933   11,003   16,950   9,610   19,620    9,375   20,984   8,085   23,251   6,323   27,165   7,376  34,679
Contribatlon to Construction (Arnuat) X                  6X       7X       8X      -1X      121       92      14X       8X     25X      102     93X       132   100X      162
Debt Service Coverage                                  1.98     3.32      1.80    4.87    1.65      3.96      1.44    3.89    1.36    2.37    1.30    2.49    1.33    2.54
,_-. ...... .-.. .. .. .. .. ..  . ..--.
(t) Depreciation pertains to operation,



SECOND RAHAGUWDAN THERHAL POWER PROJECT
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATIOW LTD.
BALANCE SHEET
(In mitlion of Rupees)_
Year ending March 31                                  1985              1986              1987              1988             1989            1990             1991
BALANCE DESCRIPTIOI                              forecast  Actual forecast   Actual Forecast   Actuat forecast  Actual forecast  Actual forecast Actual Forecast Actual
ASSETS
Gross Block                                       20,531   13,363   23,774   16,047  33,105   20,689   43,003   30,508  54,295   44,784  62,495  69,972  66,968  92,422
Less:Depreclatlon                                    670      476    1,285      903    1,979    1,416    2,966   2,069   4,250    3,068   5,876    4,554   7,749   6,877
Wet flxed Assets in Operation                     19,861   12,887   22,489   15,144   31,127   19,273  40,037   28,439  50,046  41,716 56,619   65,418  59,219   85,546
Capital Works In Progress                           16,149   19,656   22,702   31,069   21,173  44,302   17,933   52,187  10,882   57,062   3,989   52,360           56,039
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                                  36,010   32,543   45,191   46,213  52,300  63,575   57,970   80,626 60,928   98,778 60,608  117,778  59,219  141,584
Current Assets
Cash and Bank Hatance                                 11       84       12      448       17      134       22   5,973      27        2      30      291      34      684
Short-term deposits                                           395               637             1,053               737           4,544            s,364   1,179   5,279
ReceIvabtles                                         192    1,626      293    2,284      398   2,828       544   4,058     746   5,981    967   11,561   1,158  15,102
Inventories                                          205      704      238      940      331    1,322     430    1,742     543    2,639    625    3,632      670   5,414
Loans & Advances                                              326             1,972             3,642               783           2,614            1,824            2,088
Other Current Assets/Debtors                           2       17        2       13        3      148        4      178      4       104      5      125       5      231
Total Current Assets                                   409    3,151      544    6,293      749   9,127    1,000   13,469   1,320   15,884   1,627  22,797   3,046  28,799
HIsc.Capitat Expenditure                                         19                19                16                17              18               19               41
TOTAL ASSETS                                        36,420   35,713   45,735   52,526   53,048   72,718   58,969   94,112  62,248  114,680  62,234  140,594  62,265  170,424
LIABILITIES
Equity
Share Capital Issued                              23,659   20,632   27,915   26,685   30,226   32,851   30,226   37,658  30,226   44,073  30,226   49,640  30,226  59,237
Share Deposit                                                 236               990               734            2,806               73            1,100            4,314
Retained Earnings                                    315    1,402      652    3,231    1,241    5,463    1,866    8,511   2,727   11,906  3,910   17,293   5,903  24,420
Totat Equity                                      23,973   22,270   28,567   30,906   31,468   39,047   32,092   48,975  32,953   56,052 34,136  68,033  36,130  87,971
Total Long-tern Debt                              12,390   10,364   17,077   17,729   21,454   27,894   26,698   37,124  29,041  49,848  27,755  59,819  25,710  67,296
Current Liabilities                                     56   3,081        91   3,891       127   5,778      179   8,014      255    8,780    344   12,742      426  15,158
Total Debt                                          12,446   13,445   17,168   21,620  21,581   33,671   26,877   45,138  29,296   58,628  28,099   72,561  26,135   82,454
TOTAL EQJITY AWD LIABILITIES                        36,420   35,713   45,735   52,526  53,048   72,718   58,969   94,112  62,248  114,680  62,234  140,594  62,265  170,425
Debt:Equity RatIo                                   34/66   32/68    37/63    36/64    41/59   42/58    45/55    43/57    47/53   47/53    45/55   47/53    42/58  43/57
Current Ratio                                          7.3      1.0      6.0      1.6     5.9       1.6     5.6      1.7    5.2       1.8    4.7       1.8    7.2       1.9
Accoults Receivable (f of da")                          32      184       32      163       3?      164      32      117      32      175      32      210      32      233
........... ................... ... .... .........



