Document of
c tpyt tt1r 1          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.   P-3164-IN
REPORT AND REC(IM4ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROWECT
November 30, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 18, 1981)
US$1            =      Rs 9.216
Rs l            =      US$0.1085
Rs l million    =      US$108,500
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made
at US$1.00 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC   -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BHEL   -   Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd.
CEA    -   Central Electricity Authority
GOI    -   Government of India
KWU    -   Kraftwerk Union
NHPC   -   National Hydro Power Corporation
NTPC   -   National Thermal Power Corporation
OPEC   -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
REB    -   Regional Electricity Board
REC    -   Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB    -   State Electricity Board
kV     -   kilovolt  =  1,000 volts
kWh    -   kilowatt-hour  =  1,000 watt-hours
MW     -   megawatt  =  1,000 kilowatts,
km     -   kilometer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGU2NDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:    National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC).
Amount:          US$300 million.
Terms:           Repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace, at
11.6% interest per annum.
On-Lending       From GOI to NTPC, with repayment over 20 years, including
Terms:         5 years' grace, at an interest rate of 11.75% per annum.
Project          Installation of three 500 MW generating units, together with
Description:  ancillary equipment and related facilities, at the Ramagundam
thermal power station in the State of Andhra Pradesh, and
construction of about 1,400 km of associated 400 kV trans-
mission lines. One risk is the possibility of slippage in
the implementation schedule, which could give rise to
delayed commissioning of plant with consequent loss of
revenues. Careful coordination and supervision during
construction and attention to the manufacturers' abilities
to meet delivery schedules should keep implementation
delays to a minimum.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofQficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_~~~~~~~~



-ii-
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Item                     Local      Foreign     Total
Preliminary Works                2.3         -          2.3
Civil Works                    82.7         0.1        82.8
Electrical and
Mechanical Plant            236.0       304.9       540.9
Coal Handling and
Transportation               22.5         4.3        26.8
Power Transmission            116.3        15.1       131.4
Sub-total               459.8       324.4       784.2
Physical Contingencies         27.2        16.3        43.5
Price Contingencies           335.9       146.9       482.8
Consultants' and Engineering
Services                     13.6         1.2        14.8
Administration                  88.2        -          88.2
Project Cost (excluding
taxes and duties)           924.7       488.8    1,413.5
Taxes and Duties              154.0         -         154.0
Total Project Cost   1,078.7        488.8    1,567.5
Interest During
Construction                 82.9         -          82.9
Total Financing
Requirement               1,161.6       488.8    1,650.4
Financing Plan:
(US$ millions)
Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD Loan                      -          300.0       300.0
Federal Republic
of Germany                   -          150.0       150.0
OPEC Fund                      -           30.0        30.0
GOI Loans and Equity        1,078.7         8.8    1,087.5
Total                  1,078.7       488.8    1,567.5



-iii-
Estimated                                              (US$ millions)
Disbursements:    IBRD FY                 FY83  FY84    FY85    FY86   FY87  FY88
Annual                 35    35       65       75      60      30
Cumulative             35    70      135      210    270    300
Rate of Return:   15%
Appraisal Report: No. 3608b-IN, dated November 30, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$300 million to help finance a project
for the construction of the second stage of the proposed 2,100 MW thermal
power station at Ramagundam in Andhra Pradesh. Amortization would be over 20
years, including five years' grace, at an interest rate of 11.6% per annum.
The proceeds of the loan would be onlent by the GovernLment to the National
Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) for 20 years, including five years'
grace, at an interest rate of 11.75% per annum. Additional financing for the
project, in an amount equivalent to about US$180 million, is expected to be
provided by the Federal Republic of Germany (US$150 million) and the OPEC
Fund (US$30 million). The exchange risk for the proposed loan would be borne
by the Government of India (GOI).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to sig-
nificantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80.  Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Reports for the Kanpur Urban Development Project
(No. P-3125-IN), dated September 30, 1981.



-2-
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import substitu-
tion. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only
3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports over the same
period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average about 9%
per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has slowed in
recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints, this
experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a substan-
tially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input con-
straints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in 1979/80.
Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the production
of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infrastructural
constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence of these
developments, the remarkable price stability that India had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79, with prices
increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.        In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%. During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made pos-
sible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employ-
ment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal monsoon
in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%. The
industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81 rising
only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased substan-
tially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9% higher
than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half of
1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above its
level a year earlier.



-3-
8.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1980/81.
Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in 1980/81, more
than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain
production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer
demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per
year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain prices
for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up substantial
foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to limit the effects of the
1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in 1980. While the
management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant
achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the con-
tinued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The normal monsoon
of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around 130 million tons.
While the performance of the recent past and the probable future trends
suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand, the balance
remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain consumer
supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. For
example, some wheat imports are likely in 1981/82 to ensure adequate build up
of stocks. Programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage
the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high
priority.
9.        The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to favorable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
well as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of pay-
ments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$1 billion to the oil import bill. Com-
bined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import bill
to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's mer-
chandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of GDP.
India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), and
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.       The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into balance at a reasonable level of growth. In an effort
to make these adjustments, the Government has developed an investment program
for the Sixth Plan period and implemented a number of policy measures which



-4-
are designed to bring the economy closer to external equilibrium. These
measures recognize the need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth. To assist the Government in its adjustment
effort, the IMF approved an Extended Fund Facility for India of SDR 5.0
billion on November 9, 1981. Over the next three years, this facility will
provide India with a significant share of the external resources required to
bring about the necessary changes in the structure of the economy and will
substantially increase India's flexibility in dealing with its external
account imbalance.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports -
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need
for additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power. Further-
more, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the necessary
adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas. These
include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy resour-
ces; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints
on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing emphasis on the
development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent



-5-
past may not materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the develop-
ment of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to eliminate the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages, but
the situation improved substantially during the year so that power generation
in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier. India is entering
the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production program backed by
substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI is now accelerating
its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up prospective areas for
exploration by foreign firms. Prices of petroleum products were raised
substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring domestic prices into
line with world market prices, to raise resources for further oil and gas
development and to encourage efficient use of energy. India is now committed
to an expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro
potential and development of its transmission and distribution system. In
the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the



-6-
next few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, over the past year
India has begun to make judicious use of a mix of sources of external financ-
ing, including borrowing from financial markets of about US$1 billion and,
most recently, the SDR 5 billion Extended Fund Facility.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjust-
ment policies, although the aid community can and should play an important
role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the popula-
tion growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2% at
present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue falling
to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate appears
to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was substantially
higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census data are still
incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in life expectancy
was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average, Indians can expect to
live five years longer than they did a decade ago. This no doubt reflects
improved availability of food and health services. This implies, however, an
even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring about the needed reduc-
tion in the rate of growth of population. The Census results, therefore,
re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen a broad range of
family planning activities to develop a wider clientele and to provide that
clientele with a professional, technically competent advisory service which
can provide the full variety of available birth prevention methods. The new
Plan continues the high priority given to these efforts in earlier Plans.
The ambition of its targets - implying a rise in the proportion of protected
couples in the reproductive age group from its present estimated level of
about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems fully justified. Such targets imply
a serious long term commitment to moderating the population growth rate
through an improved family planning program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural



-7-
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such develop-
ments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encourag-
ing evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to
enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 141 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$9,323 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,168 million had been
repaid, and US$4,494 million was still undisbursed as of June 30, 1981. Bank
Group disbursements to India in fiscal year 1981 totalled US$962 million,
representing an increase of about 32% over the previous year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30, 1981, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.     Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.7
million, of which US$22.2 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$91.3 million, US$82.3 million
represents loans and US$9.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
23.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved



-8-
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fer-
tilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of June 30, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,742 million, of which US$874 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$868 million.
26.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
27.     The performance of the Indian power supply industry and the
economy as a whole are closely related, and economic growth and improve-
ment of the standard of living depend to a large degree on the development
of the power sector. Since alternative sources of energy are not readily
available in the amounts needed, shortage of power has an immediate impact
on virtually all activities of the economy. Indeed, the direct loss of
value added to the economy attributed to power shortages has been
estimated at about 3% of GDP. 1/ In recent years, energy matters have been
receiving top priority consideration in Central and State Government
policy planning, and the power sector now takes the largest share of
India's public investment resources (12% of the Sixth Five-Year Plan
outlay). In spite of this emphasis, demand for power has continued to
outstrip supply.
Power Supply and Demand - India-Wide
28.     In the 1950s and 1960s, installed capacity and power generation
managed to keep pace with the nation's demand for power, both growing at
an average annual rate of 10-12%. Since 1970, the situation has
deteriorated: delays in commissioning new power projects, operating and
maintenance problems, and insufficient investment under severe budget
constraints have led to a critical situation in which demand for power
consistently outstrips supply. This situation was exacerbated by
below-average monsoon rains (particularly in the early 1970s and in 1979)
which affected hydro-electric power generation, and an unstable coal
supply caused by disruptions in coal mining and transport, as well as the
poor quality of the coal itself. Between 1970/71 and 1974/75, growth in
power generation averaged only 5% annually. The situation improved con-
siderably over the period 1975/76 through 1979/80, with growth in both
generation and capacity averaging 7-9% annually. This improvement was
brought about as the result of successive good monsoons in 1975/76 and
1976/77, improved coal supply, and a concerted effort to improve project
implementation, thermal capacity utilization and overall power system
management. In 1979/80, however, generation increased by only about 2% in
spite of a 7% increase in capacity, due mainly to lower hydro plant
availability than normal and longer periods required for commissioning new
plants. Data for 1980/81 indicate an increase of about 6.5% over the
previous year for both power generation and capacity. Power shortages
have persisted in many parts of the country, particularly in the Eastern
Region. Total installed generating capacity as of March 1981 was about
33,000 MW, including non-utility plant. Of this total generating
capacity, about 62% was conventional thermal, 36% hydro, and the 2%
balance nuclear. Although additional new utility generating capacity of
1/ India: Economic Issues in the Power Sector (World Bank Report No.
2335-IN, April 1979).



-10-
about 3,212 MW is expected to be commissioned in 1981/82, power shortages
will continue.
29.      Industry consumes about 60% of all electricity sold, while
agriculture (mainly irrigation) accounts for another 17%, and domestic use
for only about 11%. As a result of accelerated agricultural development
programs, there has been a marked growth of power consumption in the rural
areas where more than 80% of India's population live. The number of
electrified villages, for example, grew from just over 3,000 in 1950/51 to
some 263,000, or about 46% of all the villages in India, by January 1981.
CEA projections indicate that during the ten-year period 1980/81-1989/90,
new utility generating capacity will grow at an annual rate of just under
11% to total some 79,000 MW, of which about 46,000 MW (58%) would be
thermal, 31,000 MW (40%) hydro and 1,800 MW (2%) nuclear. The construc-
tion of an additional 15,000 km of 400 kV transmission is planned for this
period to distribute the power output through integrated grid transmission
systems,
Power Supply and Demand - Southern Region
30.      The Southern Region comprises the States of Andhra Pradesh, Kar-
nataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. These States, together with the Union
Territory of Pondicherry, will be served by the proposed project. The
total installed capacity in the region as of March 1981 was about 7,650
MW, of which about 37% was thermal and 63% hydro. Andhra Pradesh is the
only State in the region with greater than 50% thermal capacity; Karnataka
and Kerala have solely hydro. While installed capacity grew at about 6.5%
per annum in the period 1970-1980, available capacity at peak grew at a
rate of about 7.5% per annum, indicating a significant improvement in
power availability. 1/ Unconstrained peak demand in the Region is expected
to grow at about 9% per annum until 1990, whereas the rate of growth of
installed capacity is estimated at about 10.5% per annum. As a result,
the present estimated overall capacity shortage of about 6% of potential
demand will be reduced to 2-3% in the late 1980s, and almost eliminated by
1990, provided the ambitious investment program can be adhered to.
Despite this encouraging prediction, the supply/demand situation in the
region will be precariously balanced. The addition of the proposed
project's 1,500 MW by 1989, representing about 13% of regional peak
demand, may make the difference between balance and shortage toward the
end of the decade
1/ 'Installed capacity' in reference to a power generating unit is the
manufacturer's rating of the unit, usually specified in KW. This
rating indicates the rate at which the generator will produce elec-
tricity under certain specified conditions. 'Available capacity' is
the actual rate at which electricity can be generated, taking into
account electricity required for scheduled maintenance and the gener-
ation process itself, for example, for fuel pumps and other auxiliary
purposes.



-1 1-
Sector Institutions
31.     The institutional strtucture of the Indian power sector is complex.
Under the Indian Constitution, the responsibility for supplying power is
shared between the Central Government and the State Governments, and full
agreement between the Center and the States is required for the implemen-
tation of most actions. With the rapid expansion of the power sector,
there has been an increasing need to coordinate the activities in the
power industry beyond State boundaries, and various agencies have been
established with a view to promoting integrated power development in the
country. The principal agencies in the sector are: (i) the State Elec-
tricity Boards (SEBs); (ii) the Regional Electricity Boards (REBs); (iii)
the Central Electricity Authority (CEA); (iv) the two Central power cor-
porations - the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National
Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC); and (v) the Rural Electrification Corpora-
tion (REC).
32.     State and Regional Electricity Boards (SEBs and REBs).  The SEBs
were established by the State Governments under the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948. Their major task at the time of establishment was to bring
together the small, privately-owned power plants and facilities within
their respective States. The SEBs continue to promote the coordinated
development of the generation, supply and distribution of power within
their respective States and to control and regulate other power supply
undertakings which are private licensees. At the present time, the States
own or control over 90% of India's electricity supply facilities. While
the SEBs are corporate entities in their own right and enjoy basic
autonomy in the management of their day-to-day operations, they are under
the effective control of their State Governments in such policy matters as
capital investment, finance, tariff changes and personnel. As a means of
improving collaboration between the SEBs and establishing power systems on
a broader regional basis, four Regional Electricity Boards were estab-
lished between 1964 and 1966 to help develop integrated power systems in
their respective regions, and thus prepare for the transition from
separate power systems at State level to regional systems and finally to
an interconnected national grid. The chairmanship of each REB is assumed
in rotation by the Chairman of the SEBs in the region, and the REBs are
staffed by engineers seconded from the constituent SEBs. At present, the
REBs function in an advisory capacity for coordination of maintenance
programs, generation schedules, interstate power transfer and pricing.
The potential role of the REBs in the light of the progressive integration
of Indian power sector operations is being reviewed by the Government of
India.
33.     Central Electricity Authority (CEA).  The CEA was set up in 1950
to be responsible for developing a national policy for power development,
and to coordinate the activities of the various planning agencies involved
in electricity supply. As a result of the amendments to the general
provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, which became effective in
November 1976, the scope of the CEA's functions was expanded. In addition
to the general responsibility outlined above, CEA was made responsible for
the formation of power development plans, optimization of investments in
the power sector, training of personnel, interconnected system operations,
and research and development. The SEBs are required to submit their



-12-
investment proposals to the CEA for technical and economic appraisal.
With the rapid growth of the power sector, greater emphasis is now being
placed on regional planning, with the ultimate objective of developing an
integrated national planning system.
34.     National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and National Hydro Power
Corporation (NHPC).  In order to cope with the persistent inadequacy of
power supply to meet the growing demand, GOI has undertaken to supplement
the efforts of the States by constructing large-scale, Centrally-owned
thermal power stations at coal fields and hydro stations in four regions,
as well as associated high-voltage transmission lines - a step to inter-
connect the systems beyond State boundaries. This would lead ultimately
to an integrated national power grid. Accordingly, the National Thermal
Power Corporation and the National Hydro Power Corporation were estab-
lished in November 1975 under the Companies Act, 1956, as public corpora-
tions wholly owned by GOI, with authority to design, construct, own and
operate generating and associated transmission facilities and supply power
in bulk to the States. The Centrally-owned generating stations, including
the Ramagundam plant, are designed to supplement the States' activities
and add new power generation capacity effectively within the shortest
period of time. These stations will be integrated in the national power
system and will initially supply bulk power to the States within the
regions in which they are located.
35.     Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).  To help SEBs undertake
the task of rural electrification, the REC was established in 1969 under
the Companies Act, 1956, as a public corporation wholly owned by GOI. Its
main institutional objective is to finance rural electrification schemes
prepared by SEBs throughout India, functioning as a financial intermediary
with technical expertise, and ensuring the efficient on-lending of funds
drawn primarily from GOI. In undertaking the task, REC is directed to
coordinate its lending operations with the activities of other agencies,
such as the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC),
which provide financing for rural development. Although the amount of REC
financial support is small in relation to total SEB operations in the
power sector, REC today finances more than half of total rural elec-
trification expenditures, and supervises schemes accounting for about 70%
of the total expenditures.
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
36.     Since 1954, the Bank has made ten loans to India for power
projects amounting to US$358.5 million and IDA fifteen credits totalling
US$2,096 million. Of these amounts, US$1,820 million is for generating
plant; US$23 million for construction equipment for the Beas
hydro-electric project; US$380 million for the provision of high voltage
transmission; and US$232 million for the support of rural electrification
schemes. Fourteen loans and credits have been completed: nine for gener-
ating plant, the Beas Project, the first three Power Transmission
Projects, and the First Rural Electrification Project. The Fourth Power
Transmission (Credit 604-IN of January 1976), First Singrauli (Credit
685-IN of April 1977), First Korba (Credit 793-IN of May 1978), Third
Trombay (Loan 1549-IN of June 1978), and First Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN
and Loan 1648-IN of February 1979) Thermal Power Projects, and the Second



-13-
Rural Electrification Project (Credit 911-IN of June 1979), are in an
advanced stage of implementation. The credit for the Second Singrauli
Thermal Power Project (Credit 1027-IN) and the credit/loan for the first
stage of the Farakka Thermal Power Project (Credit 1053-IN and Loan
1887-IN) were approved in May and June 1980, respectively. The credit
for the second stage of the Korba Thermal Power Project was approved in
July 1981. A Third Rural Electrification Project has been appraised and
is currently being processed. The First and Second Singrauli, First
Korba, and Trombay projects are on schedule. The Farakka and Ramagundam
projects and the Fourth Power Transmission Project are proceeding satis-
factorily after initial delays.
37.     A project performance audit was conducted in 1980 for the Second
Power Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN). The project was considered
to have been successful in assisting the nine beneficiary SEBs in extend-
ing their transmission systems to help meet their growing power require-
ments. Utilization of generating capacity in these SEBs exceeded the
appraisal forecast. Institutional objectives mainly concerned the
rehabilitation of the finances of the SEBs, and this improvement effort is
continuing under subsequent projects. In 1979/80, seven of the nine SEBs
reached their target rate of return of 9.5%. The audit also highlighted
the difficulties of adequately supervising a project of this nature which
consisted of many wide-scattered sub-projects, and the absence of a close
working relationship between the Bank Group and the beneficiary SEBs,
which complicated the process of effecting institutional improvements.
With the assumption of increased responsibilities by the CEA in the power
sector, a considerably more effective relationship with the SEBs is
envisaged.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
38.     The Bank Group has had a continuing dialogue with the Government
in seeking solutions to a number of complex and politically sensitive
problems which have confronted the Indian electricity supply industry
since Independence. The sensitivity of Center-State relations and the
political constraints arising from the fact that electricity supply is
within the concurrent jurisdiction of the Central and State Governments
(para. 31) have dictated a policy of seeking progress through cooperation.
More specifically, the Bank Group's main objectives in its lending opera-
tions in the Indian power sector are: (a) accelerating the installation of
generating and transmission capacity to eliminate power shortages and
promoting measures to improve the technical levels of operation and main-
tenance of existing plant; (b) fostering development of comprehensive
long-range regional and national system plans which would assure implemen-
tation of a least-cost power development program; (c) strengthening of key
sector institutions, their organization, and training capabilities; and
(d) strengthening of the finances of the institutions involved in the
sector, particularly of the SEBs.
39.     Some noteworthy results have been achieved, which include: (a) the
establishment of the REBs and later of the Centrally-owned power companies
(NTPC and NHPC), which mark the first important steps towards nationwide
power operation; (b) amendment of the Electricity (Supply) Act in 1976, to
strengthen the role of the CEA; (c) amendments to the financial provisions



-14-
of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, which provide for the development
of SEBs on a more commercial basis, with the objective of financing from
internal sources a reasonable proportion of their investments;
(d) implementation of action plans by a number of SEBs, which were
designed to improve their financial performance through tariff increases,
rationalization of manpower requirements, improved maintenance management,
and the introduction of other cost-effective measures; (e) tariff studies
by a number of SEBs with a view to reassessing tariff policies; (f) satis-
factory progress of NTPC's generation/transmission construction program
with Bank Group assistance; and (g) establishment of the Committee on
Power to review all aspects of the power sector (para. 42).
40.     Considerable progress has been made in the sector in the recent
past, particularly over the last 2-3 years, and more is projected for the
medium term. Thermal generation increased by about 15% during the period
October 1980-March 1981 as compared to the same period of the previous
year, while installed capacity increased by only 6.5%, indicating improved
capacity utilization. Energy shortages dropped from about 16% of demand
in 1979/80 to an estimated 10% in 1981/82. Hydro power capacity, which
has typically accounted for about 38% of total installed capacity, is
expected to grow from about 11,800 MW in 1980/81 to 31,200 MW in 1989/90.
This, too, will be a comnmendable achievement in view of the heavy initial
investments and long gestation periods for hydro development. Central
Government involvement in the power sector has also increased and now
represents about 12% of installed capacity; it is projected to grow to 16%
by 1984/85 and to 26% by 1989/90. The Central Government share in
high-voltage transmission is projected to rise from nil at present to 56%
and 62% by 1984/85 and 1989/90, respectively. In view of the success to
date of the Central Government (especially NTPC) in implementing projects,
sectoral targets appear more likely to be met in the future than they have
been in the past.  In the financial area, the Government recognizes that
reliable feedback on financial performance requires reform of the SEBs'
accounting practices, and steps to introduce a standardized system of
commercial accounting are now underway. Further improvements will also
necessitate an entirely new approach to financial management by the SEBs,
including the establishment of new financial objectives and policies for
their implementation, and on the evolution of a clear tariff policy.
41.     Two areas of specific concern to the Bank Group in the past have
been the lack of a nationwide long-range plan for power development, and
the weak financial position of some SEBs. With regard to the first of
these, a long-range national power development study designed to prepare a
least-cost power development program is now underway and is scheduled to
be completed by April 1982. The status of progress of this study was
reviewed during the course of negotiations for this project and was found
satisfactory. GOI is confident that the study will be completed by the
scheduled date. With regard to the financial performance of the SEBs,
there has been considerable improvement in the overall performance during
1978/79 and 1979/80 (para. 61). GOI is keen to maintain the rehabilita-
tion effort and further improve performance through the introduction of
financial policies that would enable the SEBs to operate more along com-
mercial lines and enhance their self-financing capability. Improved



-15-
monitoring systems for measuring both the technical and financial perfor-
mance of the sector in a more comprehensive and consolidated manner are
being developed by GOI and NTPC, and the introduction of these was also
discussed during project negotiations. Beginning with fiscal year
1981/82, GOI will provide to the Bank annual reports on these aspects of
power sector performance.
42.     In 1978 the Indian authorities recognized that all aspects of the
sector needed to be reviewed in depth and that satisfactory solutions had
to be found for outstanding sector development problems. Consequently,
GO established in November 1978 a Committee on Power whose purpose was to
examine all aspects of the power industry and make recommendations for
improvements. The Committee completed its task and submitted its conclu-
sions to GOI in September 1980. These conclusions refer to all major
aspects of the power sector - power planning, project formulation and
implementation, operation and maintenance, organization and management,
finance, financial management and tariffs, rural electrification, and
research and development. Implementation of some of the Committee's
recommendations is already underway: for example, better planning proce-
dures and improved operations and maintenance management, such as plant
breakdown procedure and spare parts procurement. However, other important
measures require due deliberation by GOI and the State Governments and
their joint agreement before they can be implemented. These measures
include sector development, organizational structure, and sector finances.
43.     The Bank considers that there are a number of areas in which
actions to accelerate improvement are of particularly high priority.
These include: (a) improving the performance of thermal power plants;
(b) coordinating power development with the development of other sectors
of the economy; (c) intensifying hydro-electric power development;
(d) strengthening the role of the Central sector in power generation and
transmission; and (e) establishing appropriate financial objectives and
policies. The concern of the Bank Group in these areas is also reflected
in the recommendations of the Committee on Power. In view of the impor-
tance of achieving improvements in these high-priority areas for the
successful long-term development of the power sector, GOI and the Associa-
tion reached an understanding during negotiations for the Second Korba
Thermal Power Project on the need for an implementation plan and schedule
outlining the steps to be taken in each of the areas towards meeting this
objective. Such a plan and schedule is currently in preparation by GOI
and is expected to be completed by April 1982, to coincide with the com-
pletion of the national power development study (para. 41). Suggested
items for inclusion in the plan were reviewed and discussed during nego-
tiations for the proposed project; these items had been identified earlier
from the Bank's own review of power sector improvement needs. In addi-
tion, early implementation of improvements to the financial operations and
performance of the SEBs is being discussed in the context of the process-
ing of a proposed Third Rural Electrification Project, for which the SEBs,
under the general supervision of the REC, are the implementing agencies.



-16-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.     The project was appraised in January/February 1981.  A Staff
Appraisal Report is being distributed separately to the Executive Direc-
tors. Negotiations were held in Washington in November 1981. GOI and
NTPC were represented by a delegation with Mr. S. C. Jain as coordinator.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
45.     The proposed project represents the second stage of the develop-
ment of the Ramagundam thermal power station in the State of Andhra
Pradesh. The first stage, financed in part under the first Ramagundam
Thermal Power Project (Loan 1648-IN and Credit 874-IN), and consisting of
three 200 MW generating units and associated transmission facilities, is
presently under construction with commissioning of the three units
scheduled at six-month intervals between February 1, 1984 and February 1,
1985.  The second stage, comprising three 500 MW units, ancillary equip-
ment and related works, together with about 1,400 km of 400 kV transmis-
sion lines, will bring the power plant to its final installed capacity of
2,100 MW by September 1989. The first 500 MW unit is expected to be
commissioned by September 1, 1987, with the commissioning of the remaining
two 500 MW units following at one-year intervals. Bulk power generated by
the plant will be conveyed to SEBs in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala,
and Tamil Nadu, and the Electricity Departments of the Union Territories
of Goa and Pondicherry. The principal components of the project include:
civil works; three 500 MW turbo-generator units and three boilers, com-
plete with all auxiliaries; ancillary electrical and mechanical equipment;
coal handling and transportation equipment; about 1,400 km of 400 kV
transmission lines; and technical assistance. The project also provides
for the purchase of a small airplane to be used for supervisory missions
of NTPC's power plants across the country; this item will be financed from
GOI's own (non-Bank) resources.
46.      In the interests of spreading the proposed loan commitment for
this project over a period of years, consideration was given during and
subsequent to project appraisal to the possibility of segmenting the
proposed project into smaller sub-projects, which would enable the loan to
be made as separate tranches. This approach was discussed extensively
within the Bank and with GOI. However, both the Bank and GOI concluded
that for a number of reasons, the approach would be impractical. First,
the project includes, in addition to the turbo-generators, a number of
components such as the water treatment and cooling water plants and the
coal handling equipment that are essential to the efficietiL operation of
the entire plant, and not just the individual turbo-generator units.
These components do not lend themselves conveniently to any form of seg-
mentation or phased implementation, since they need to be available as
soon as the first of the turbo-generators becomes operational. Second,
the procurement of the three turbo-generators under a single contract
results in a more favorable unit price than would be obtained if they were
procured separately. Third, acquisition of the turbo-generators on an
individual basis, possibly from different manufacturers, introduces the
risk of compatibility problems, which could affect plant operations and



-17-
maintenance, spare parts provision, and the training of operations and
maintenance personnel. For these reasons, the Bank considered that the
presentation of a single project of the scope originally proposed would
provide the most efficient solution to meet the project's objectives.
Project Implementation
47.     The National Thermal Power Corporation will implement the project
as part of its ongoing power development program. NTPC has a Board of
Directors, which presently consists of six members, some of whom are part
time. A new Chairman and Managing Director has recently been appointed,
and he is expected to continue the good progress achieved under the pre-
vious chairmanship in building up NTPC's organization and manpower. As a
growing organization, NTPC places special importance on the training of
engineers, supervisors and operating staff as well as managerial and
administrative staff, and is implementing an acceptable training program
covering spheres of activity such as planning, design, construction and
operations start-up.
48.     The project comprises a number of major works which must be care-
fully coordinated to ensure efficient progress. NTPC has prepared a
master plan for project implementation and preparatory civil works have
already begun at the plant site. The detailed engineering and design work
carried out for the ongoing Bank Group-assisted thermal power projects,
comprising 200 MW and 500 MW units, is also applicable to the proposed
project. In the course of its involvement with thermal power plant con-
struction, NTPC has acquired considerable expertise in the design and
engineering of 200 MW thermal power units, fifteen of which are under
construction by NTPC at this time. This expertise will also be relevant
for the proposed project, since technical problems posed by 500 MW units
are similar to those associated with 200 MW units. NTPC has also
developed comprehensive project management systems which provide for
efficient program coordination and supervision of power station construc-
tion. Consultants financed under the First Ramagundam Thermal Power
Project (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN) have been appointed to review
these systems and their initial implementation. The review was begun in
January 1981 and is expected to be completed before the end of the year.
The basic engineering and design work for the project will be carried out
by local engineering staff. However, consultants with broad experience in
major construction programs of this nature will be appointed to review
these aspects of the project, and provide assistance in the more complex
design areas (Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement). The engineering
consultancy requirements for these activities are estimated at about 90
man-months, costing approximately US$1.2 million.  Supervisory services
for erection and commissioning of the main equipment, such as
turbo-alternator units and steam generators, will be provided by the
manufacturers of the equipment.
49.     The Ramagundam development is being constructed in the Karimnagar
district of Andhra Pradesh, in the vicinity of the Godavari coalfields.
Coal for the plant will be provided by the South Godavari field adjacent
to the plant. Extractable reserves of coal from this field would be
sufficient to cover the coal consumption capacity of a 2,100 MW power
plant for about 50 years. The coal requirements for the Ramagundam plant
will amount to about 6.4 million tons annually at full development in



-18-
1992/93.  The thirteen mines in the South Godavari field that will provide
coal for the plant are expected to achieve an output of about 7.5 million
tons by 1988/89. As with previous Bank Group-assisted thermal power plant
development in India, the Government will take all necessary steps to
ensure that adequate coal supplies for the final installed capacity of the
plant are available (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement). No problem is
foreseen with regard to the availability of adequate quantities for the
proposed station. Transportation of coal from the mines to the station
would be handled by a 'merry-go-round' railway system constructed as part
of the first-stage project. Cooling water arrangements are adequate.
50.     In line with NTPC's other Bank Group-assisted thermal power
projects, GOI intends to allocate at least 85% of the power output of the
proposed project to the States in the region in which the project is
located; the remaining 15% would be sold in accordance with priorities to
be determined by CEA to States with the greatest need. Accordingly, GOI
has obtained undertakings from the recipient Southern Region SEBs in the
States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, duly endorsed by their
State Governments, to purchase at least 85% of the output from the final
installed capacity of the Ramagundam plant. Similar undertakings from the
Kerala SEB and the Electricity Department of the Union Territory of Pon-
dicherry will be made available shortly.
51.     As in previous Bank Group lending operations, NTPC has undertaken
to sell at least 85% of the project's output of power under bulk supply
contracts with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05
of the Project Agreement). NTPC intends to complete all the necessary
commercial arrangements prior to the sale of energy from each power sta-
tion. Accordingly, NTPC will provide to the Bank a final draft of the
bulk supply contract for the sale of energy from the Ramagundam station
by August 1, 1983, about six months before the first sales from that
station are made. The final draft contract in respect of the Singrauli
station, which is due to be commissioned in February 1982, was provided to
the Bank in September 1981. The document was reviewed in detail during
project negotiations and was found satisfactory.
52.     Adequate measures will be taken to minimize potential adverse
ecological effects of the project in accordance with environmental quality
standards prescribed by the National Committee on Environmental Planning
and Coordination (Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement), which have been
reviewed and are acceptable. The measures include stack emission control
by electrostatic precipitators, appropriate ash disposal, and effluent
neutralization and discharge facilities. The approval of the Committee
for the final installed capacity of 2,100 MW has been obtained, and
appropriate occupational safety standards will be strictly enforced.
Project Costs and Financing
53.     The total cost of the total 2,100 MW Ramagundam power station
development program, including associated transmission facilities, duties
and taxes, and interest during construction, is estimated at US$2.5 bil-
lion. The project cost, including contingencies but excluding about
US$154 million equivalent in taxes and duties, is estimated at US$1,414
million equivalent, of which about US$489 million (35%) represents the



-19-
foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction adds about US$83
million to the financing required. The proposed loan of US$300 million
would finance about 21% of the total project costs net of taxes and
duties, or about 61% of the total foreign exchange cost of US$489 million.
The Federal Republic of Germany intends to provide about US$150 million
equivalent towards financing the three 500 MW turbo-generator units and
associated equipment. The OPEC Fund is also expected to provide about
US$30 million of the project financing. These amounts together would
finance about 37% of the foreign exchange costs, or about 13% of the total
project costs net of taxes and duties. The balance of the funds required,
aggregating about US$1,170 million equivalent (including about US$9 mil-
lion in foreign exchange and about US$83 million interest during construc-
tion), would be provided by GOI in the form of loans and equity share
capital. However, GOI has agreed to ensure that NTPC is provided with the
required resources to complete the project in the event that the foreign
loans fail to materialize.
54.     The proposed Bank loan would be made to GOI, which would onlend it
to NTPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between GOI
and NTPC. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement will be a condition
of effectiveness for the loan (Section 6.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
The funds will be channelled through GOI to NTPC at an interest rate of
11.75% per annum with repayment over 20 years, including five years'
grace. This interest rate is the standard rate currently used by GOI in
lending to industrial and commercial undertakings in the public sector.
The exchange risk will be borne by the Government. Inflation in India
over the past five years has averaged less than 8% per annum. The average
annual inflation rate over the next five years is not expected to exceed
8%. The onlending rate of 11.75% per annum to NTPC would therefore be
positive in real terms.
Procurement and Disbursement
55.     All equipment financed under the proposed loan will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Indian manufacturers competing under international competi-
tive bidding will be granted a preference margin of 15% or the current
rate of import duty, whichever is less. It is expected that local
manufacturers of equipment and machinery will submit the lowest bids for
most of the items financed under the loan. All work not financed from the
proposed loan or from the expected loans from the Federal Republic of
Germany and the OPEC Fund will be subject to NTPC's procurement proce-
dures, which are satisfactory. The 500 MW turbines and generators will
be built by an Indian company, Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) under
license from Kraftwerk Union (KWU) of Germary. BHEL will progressively
take over the manufacture of these units, although critical components
will be manufactured in Germany by KWU. Financing for the components
manufactured by KWU would be provided by the Federal Republic of Germany.
The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a six-year period
(FY1983-88) against 100% of the c.i.f. or ex-factory cost of equipment
items (boilers and auxiliaries; electrical, mechanical, and transmission
equipment) and 100% of the cost of technical advisory services by consult-
ants.



-2 0--
NTPC Finances
56.      NTPC is currently in the sixth year of an investment program in
which it expects to construct and coission four large-scale thermal
power stations with an aggregate generating capacity of 8,300 MW (three
2,100 MW stations -- at Ramagundam in Andhra Pradesh, at Korba in Madhya
Pradesh, and at Farakka in West Bengal -- together with one 2,000 MW
station at Singrauli in Uttar Pradesh). In addition, about 7,000 km of
400 kV transmission lines are slated for construction. The Government's
investment in this development has undergone continuous review during the
past five years. As a result, the original investment program, which was
designed to provide a generating capacity of 7,300 MW and about 6,000 km
of 400 kV transmission lines, has been extended by three years through
1990/91 and increased by about US$3,246 million to about US$8,371 million
equivalent. This increase will finance an additional 1,000 MW (two 500 MW
units) of generating capacity at Farakka, additional transmission
facilities at Singrauli, Ramagundam and Farakka, the rescheduling of
commissioning dates for individual generating plants, and expected
increases in equipment costs. Finance for the increased investment
program will come from NTPC's increased internal resources accruing during
the three-year period of the extended construction program, and from GOI
in the form of long-term loans and equity share capital.
57.     NTPC is expected to commence comercial operations in February
1982 when commissioning of the first 200 MW generating unit under the
First Singrauli project (Credit 685-IN) is scheduled. NTPC's earnings
have been projected on the assumption of a bulk supply tariff sufficient
to achieve a 9.5% rate of return on net fixed assets. This was agreed
under previous lending operations and is to be achieved from 1990/91, when
NTPC's sales are forecast to reach about 90% of the projected total output
of the four thermal power plants. Furthermore, NTPC has agreed to fix the
average bulk supply tariff from the conrmencement of its commercial opera-
tions at the level required to achieve the 9.5% rate of return target in
1990/91 (Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement). This will result in a
lower rate of return in the earlier years but, in view of the high initial
capital investment in the early stages of NTPC's power development and the
time involved in commissioning generating capacity, t:his approach to
tariff setting is appropriate.
58.      Projected annual revenues for each year from  1981/82 through
1991/92 are based on a forecast 1990/91 average bulk supply price for
power of 31.8 paise (US cents 4.0) per kWh, excludin,g fuel surcharge.
This price level compares with 29.1 paise (US cents 3.6) per kWh calcu-
lated at the last revision of the invest:ment program in March 1980 for the
appraisal of the Farakka project (Credit 1053-IN/Loan 1887-IN). Minor
losses in 1981/82 and 1982/83 are anticipated, but these are acceptable as
part of NTPC's development program.  NTPC will become profitable in
1983/84 and, following the rapid commissioning of Dlant from 1983/84
through 1990/91, earnings will rise rapidly to an 11.8% rate of return in
1993/94 when all generating units are operating ful]y.
59.      The overall investment cost for the years 1976/77 through 1990/91
is estimated to amount to about US$8,371 million equivalent. The Govern-
ment will provide funds, through a combination of long-term loans and



-21-
equity capital, in amounts such that NTPC's debt/equity ratio will not
exceed 1:1. As in the case of NTPC's previous Bank Group-assisted thermal
power projects, NTPC will inform the Bank of any proposal to modify exist-
ing limitations on its borrowing powers prior to its consideration by
NTPC's shareholders (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
60.     NTPC's capitalization as of March 31, 1982, when NTPC begins to
earn revenues, is expected to be about US$1,437 million, divided between
GOI loans (including the onlending of Bank Group finance) and equity
capital in a ratio of 20/80. In March 1990, after the completion of the
proposed project, total capitalization will be about US$7,736 million,
with a debt/equity ratio of 45/55. No new debt is forecast after 1989/90
following the commissioning of the last generating unit in the investment
program, and this, combined with a significant increase in internal cash
generation, will reduce the debt/equity ratio to 42/58 by 1990/91. NTPC's
authorized share capital will be raised progressively during this period
from a current level of about US$1,875 million to US$4,375 million in
1986/87.
Financial Performance of SEBs
61.      The Bank Group, under previous lending operations, has sought to
improve the financial performance of the SEBs by requiring them to achieve
an annual rate of return of 9.5% on net fixed assets. While the financial
performance of some SEBs in achieving this rate of return has been mar-
ginal in the past, considerable overall improvement has been made in
recent years. In 1979/80, 13 SEBs (out of a total of 16 major SEBs)
reached or exceeded the target rate of return, compared with 6 in 1977/78.
The implementation of action programs designed to restore or maintain the
target rates of return has proved effective in most cases. Overall, the
SEBs performance in 1980/81 is expected to have been maintained at least
at the 1979/80 level.
62.      Special attention was given during appraisal to the SEBs of the
Southern Region and the Electricity Department of the Union Territory of
Pondicherry, the recipients of the Ramagundam power output. Five-year
projections through 1984/85 prepared by CEA indicate that the 9.5% rate of
return for these SEBs and the Pondicherry Electricity Department should be
either maintained or exceeded.
Project Justification and Risks
63.     The proposed project is justified as the least-cost solution to
meet part of the projected base load demand in the Southern Region from
1987/88 onwards. The Ramagundam development offers economies of scale and
of relatively low fuel costs due to its location at the coal pithead.
Compared to the only practical alternative -- advancing the implementation
of smaller coal-fired stations that would be constructed by individual
SEBs in the absence of the project -- the proposed project has the lowest
present value cost. The economic rate of return of the project, using
tariff revenues and quantifiable consumers' surplus as benefit proxies for
consumers' willingness to pay for continuous power supply, is 15%. This
must be regarded as well below the true economic rate of return on the
proposed expansion of power generation capacity, since additional benefits



-22-
expected from the project but whose quantification is difficult -- for
example, the maintenance of industrial, agricultural and commercial output
made possible by the reduction in power shortages -- are not included.
64.     Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. A potential risk is the possibility of schedule
slippage which could give rise to delays in the commissioning of plant and
a consequent loss of revenues. However, NTPC has developed effective
project management systems (para. 48) and has sound experience in power
station construction. Project implementation progress will be closely
monitored and construction carefully coordinated and supervised. Par-
ticular attention will be paid to the ability of manufacturers to meet the
required delivery schedules. The use of experienced consultants by NTPC
should also help minimize engineering and design problems, and the fact
that a number of large generating units will have been in operation for
some years by the time the project is commissioned should reduce the
possibility of operational difficulties during start-up and the early
stages of operation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and NTPC, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
66.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India
and NTPC has been made an additional condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
67.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
November 3D, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM. )                                                         MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL            3287.6                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOSE              MIDDLE INTOE
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5                1960  /b    1970 /b EST1MATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    60.0        100.0      190.0              232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       111.1        152.5     241.8              499.4                   1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)   434850.0    547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9           19.7      22.0                17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        132.3        166.6     200.5               153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7         308.0      355.8              360.3                   2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS-                           40.1        42.4       41.1               37.4                     39.8
15-64 YRS.                           56.8        54.7       56.0               59.2                     56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1          2.9       2.9                3.5                      3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.8          2.3       2.1                2.1                      2.3
URBAN                                2.5          3.3       3.3                3.4                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.2         40.3      34.0                27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       22.7         17.4      13.5                10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1          2.8       2.3                2.5                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       64.0      3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           12.0      22.6               20.4                     44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            98.0       102.0       93.0              107.1                    123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     93.0        92.0       91.0               98.6                    112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            52.0        51.0       50.0               56.9                     62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0        15.0       13.0               14.2                     19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       27.1         20.4      14.8               14.6                      4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.2          47.5       51.9               57.7                     64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        134.0     125.0               89.1                     50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0       33.0               30.1                     45.9
URBAN                                 ..        60.0       83.0               65.8                     68.0
RURAL                                 ..         6.0       20.0               20.1                     34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         18.0      20.0               17.6                     53.4
URBAN                                 ,,        85.0       87.0               71.0                     71.0
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       2.0                4.8                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN            4850.4/c    4889.0    3617.4              3857.7                   4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9630.07c    8296.5    6429.4              6411.8                   2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1              1132.8                    588.5
URBAN                                 ..          ..      363.5              322.3                    579.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..   10429.1              5600.5                   1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2         5.6        5.2
URBAN                                5.2         5.6        4.8
RURAL                                5.2         5.6        5.3
AVERAGE NUMIER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.6         2.8
URSAN                                2.6         2.8
RURAL                                2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..          .
RURAL                                 ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  61.0         73.0       79.0               85.9                     99.8
MALE                   80.0         90.0       94.0               94.4                   100.6
FEMALE                 40.0         56.0       63.0               64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20.0         26.0       28.0               38.0/aa                 53.5
MALE                   30.0         36.0       37.0               34.67/                  58.4
FEHALE                 10.0         15.0       18.0               18.0/aa                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   8.0             1.0        1.0                 3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                              29.0         41.0       41.0               32.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0         ..               19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0         33.4       36.0                52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.7          1.1        1.3                 1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.9         21.5       32.5               35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.0          0.0        1.0                3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0       16.9                14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6.3        3.8                3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     31.2         32.4       31.9               29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0       71.0               69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0       11.0               14.1                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.6         40.3       38.9               39.7                    40.2
MALE                                   58.0         52.6       51.3               51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                 28.2         27.1       25.7               23.3                     31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.1        1.1                 1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUITION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7            26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7            48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1             6.77e      7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6            17.27e    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PEE CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      132.0              134.1                   248.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..      114.0              111.6                   193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                 ..                   249.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       40.3               41.7                    21.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.7               51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
an-ofg the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
faa  China incladed in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betweer 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betwee- 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
OEFINIT IONS OP SOCIA    CCTI
Notes:  Although the data ate drawn troe Io'tle.generally judged the roaauhrial                   e   cliable, it  hbowid fet be noted than Ottey way  ot be ittet-
nat tonally coaprabLe  h.ca.ee of the  ako  atanardeeddftinit.... a.   ooet sd  by dlffysuth te ite                          I.Ianleottg the data.  The dat  at,noe
mcttrtoh         rue  r   1  the sueotnoY groP of cha euhb ar  -ounty awd (2ll   ....a..try stou  with eshat high.en co-tge iwns  than the                       .. country   rp
of the tujouutr:otp   ft'aca  Sur:Iplus Oill Ewport-et  drooP oh-t  'Mitddla I-nt  North Afrioa and Midetc"                                    I hsn  eas   fsrne
1.0- 0110plhuchd., d.rncltIt  erOcplolithcoolcoar, odton.      PpottonItha
Anrdcultura -' Edct   farcitnl  naoe   eprrl  o   rnno  yaa  a ia  ofi  sodyr dat  genra.cd hrecalyee  hosllad  o
to  coa,mcoes   aro  and AlIIictogudeoutotnfle,ctIta                                        patftsuo,ttt1s   to p                       h.l ce  et -ilnsntiploanetlyatafa
rltdbwae cn-rto  srhdon.o...nAAto   117-1 nel                          11,                 n  sadna  catt ia no  pbesaenl   tafe -P byi    a physIcfr(u   byda
101   ud10 .o.. IedOca-  assatodt, nuoa. s-d-nife  ott.f  abi..otter.tnpatotnneo
andZIl lintb   oriw,  ooo   a   t   ydc,co  a  -anoh.oa-  alc--androts]  oepi                                            _1-dlana  onRuts1 hospitals and   e ita l ad. haerlty
Pros basriolafdroldbdbyhthe noset of beda
PIPTIaf Idol 001 1111I. IR_TISTiCS
Totl PpultIo,  Id-rottlonans      Asof  ub ;gfil  197yd,nod lt79                     go-ltIttI,   -1I   tt h   pt
asongrouninlet; 1911. 1970, and 19)9 data.                                          tho household fini  etat960t197toal.duo9o9ee.
Poenlanlon ypnitctlorr                                                          hoerassnoeber of  HI.pter1awe ra  tws-ntl uraniad  url-  oeag  0
Poualo   nSor201-bod    tcatn    roevco   r   undo  11                   ero   erneyn  ostoaloro.en   ua  ocpedcneo oo
ioto   pouakoi    yorln.etolgof   ctalyed  orlvynnnIdflita   esetnly    tsllaecid   o-prnen    totoe   n
d.-      to   aoeer    oortlocveca                  mn teR_t feawatt                             acuudpta
Insli 0  npctacyor  Irh Icrna ogrIc  ronny    po  cylt  lcow        Ices 1 hleotric le  Irarvene of dolh na)-  on     uba, n  tta
T-   nr  fr  erIit-Y.raIn- ..olso          A   la'eInhree  1a 60l  1e970ng dcild tn9        Hof  lt    rbn   n  orldel oarap                      ey
Strt -ryipo- cln 19 n0 190,- et 9tnu9   pouaIo   hrei ,            rnr clov. h..r soel f- ttl saeao   asl     Coe  oal   ae  o 
oottonotat.   hu   o ahieedonl  afyr  rrrltn   ono..on too.I. no                       rIsr  coo -t  popuonont,nroll  -nned1   childre  ag. dh-il
nect level.                                                                        Oduoallonroqtlrto  ut boot loot yearn ofy.upprocodpprioouty i...rtoIfod;
Lea oonontovoultitoIttrlI-~  -Th  yurohn  ta tnoy  oplo to                Iocor  gnnoo  ccolool. r  ea-o  ealfoiOuv 0r000Ioh,pl
orl; 16d  1970l an-d. 191  dota r__-i-I   i_                                l,             .CTOrc-oreolovlntWo  eodr      d]tort   nodI
Pouolh      othmt(eoet -oe]-pouIrnv    aetn   ot]rd                                               too...cetof  of- onnu  othc op ouoo  ne -y000aI    oe
youafo  GrPh.uo(e..r.-.a-nna    000   arto   chrprt                                         lhTST
Thantoct'for 1.50-hf, i191 -_0ijuvd 190-I                                          Poonotat(otcooo  nua Oor:r cwwrdo  hact odyow  nv0
trtdn 010th pre Inerohoce Id)     tna  Iehnh   e   hoooo of 0yourcor  -evv Idr    o    090poot  rvoo                                            htovtdhaoon
poyclanlon; loll, fOOl, nod 1079 data,                                            all Itary onfrlolno.~~~~~~~~~~~P. 
Cdo0thhv(per ihtan)-bool   el  prIono--o   ldyo                                         ado aaoroIorhTh.                 orlroo     01rce   frrnoeofr  uu
ppaIloch: E191. lO hl no   010 at IcooodconnalpulIhpr  honpdpf  op,Jcoc;00 bd o   00P:
lr -otttodcrooIad-oeaancceofdutth                     rano       Iv lhul                     lPAnnrvecr    froocro             1od         CooooP-detttnttonfodv
hI 19  atn  t-otahfly foeya   oogsedc   nlOl   90   n   99                                   00ooore   tolle   unot
PoloIwnn-orpoo.owltbuade-.oaluYtcacpoo                                Teoienoeto1v2                   conlo)T    rooet   obnOott
ofhlrhrorrl  ecoe  oda  nnyro   o  01000   fnt1  latIg  rnoo.1rerl  010070  rouoo  tpuavco  orido17b ooedTbevtfe
1960.tn       1970at -nno 1979 tro-                                                     ocV-tioco    dll  gIfo olre  -teteryec    roe                  nprolu
_1-d - c_p-bd - Ib.v.olocvccOrolfposoll   o  eoefnf-voalcno   I  loo-dot
fIl 00  StItIIO                                                                                   to9bedolly .f.t.apoo ist  leas  fou  bcenwI
prdoro  o   l  fodI  ydtt.yootoaclda   edadfa d                                            nictooe wldll dil- tb   er   nldngaotln   o000-r  le
0P1-1000  a19eag  yrdo,pro97gbi   91-O    01,dand91979fob.                                   Tovo Lahogn      l PonceOrlooohs p-  ...olelyacot  oton  Ovodn
Per caIarnl   folcloIovo   freonnot       Opuo   rsuedhorondoeyoo   our too -odio  bocoy lo .. o_deno__0.
peeda.P        nlahetoy uoio-on d19t60l  prducIon  laocr  lowo-                                not. Mr-aabl- 19Al97lo OO   ao
warn "tsr-ar- b-0 Pl huwe  on_yllgoloowfrnro   vo-Ieiga   oonneo   os   abrfre   91   90ad17   oa
Iowtol rol;195IA"171             Ind190dano                                                 19100ond-9791d79u
alloconro ofhI gpaen ofroyal proleo per day ad 20 gowno  f uno..n.  In06.lll',  p-d 1979dat.dTh t   re booed. on  b                      -,d pu TcV1 0 ...100.
yoa   roeo  ofIdb-,  ghir  (10 g4oy_nvo -h. be- anis h-e    - proel. -hoeotod               relo oaeaneurc   trol atn,adln   toted
uteoeoerlnnot   t5taeonla   tnenodjtotf                                                 eoalarvoolonnlooooon
etea  ponl o  a  oaog  fr h  wrl.  ocnedbyP0   o  beIhI                             Pcono       g den Y_lr-.  h.r.  ofpooloo-o-            e  1  ad  5on  co
Pvnedorta. Ifnolofod  Iro    I   al..lt.1O  nod. 007  Pa.                                       of ho..on...dk.
hALT I                                                                                 PO~~~di   _p,_y   ..  d.   .  l,kic10011 blIPgSdi                 i_
ari..  bIrh;  960  1970 . ood      -,h; 910 dovo                                                andd199 d  LL-  oLcobdbe  nterretd ool r i-11yabpvo    p__
of   q  ISe-pe  tIusod110   lrh.                                                                holn   oooy  non   rcti  tn  tcerlco   oo  bch0odta
toSf Iuerlaco o"If trsnld         f o            -tl,uran no PIoa    otto-           c_oyoal  oditar  dOrplte_efIa.o_fodroe                              _ Ioo
bP o  y      _lo(otl.  oh    aol_ reel   ....ouent       blaofennwff ofo_dbir
roneldondrohetug  ithtorooworaho oonso o  thurboon.inb   rlorwEeonldPplv    OrIo  Abooe                                       --croInoono Leon~ boetoe    I
':."IbloocoooolAOrld.otbhfneofcoonoroly _lcehllonruac   Ponheon ofccolonloob-of--tdnoW197ooo"ahtololo.
doooncnooocd dOencrocr                      ---ofo   10  y 0000 ,,0boog  -h
and nonto-ooneo by ounor-hoone wyneono 00 Ibodecof~pb-   y19vocoo0ad  fdl t1979n  nddoril  01
11--b.  f 60   -A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  b.1 "It ioon(0co (ol  nd  rcIoo2c
01000  qoolfledfpnea tedoul  r.o . or   "lloerotly lanel.          I                                                                        -  lR 
Pooo-oipnd     onn Peo   -Ppooio   tlddb InsbePFA of phwoThiOrd
t.uleiodftouletpudo9ontno9r7w-ot.  yoavrlrinlooPoPale,-urddoottoudt65ocdwIt.



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONO(MIC DEVELOPHENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1979   US$190
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80  /                                                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GRNLTH (7., constant Prices) v
US$ BID.          1            1955/56-1959/60    1960/61-1964/65       1965166-1969170    1970/71-1974/75    1975176-1978/79
GNP at Market Prices                     134.16         100.0                3.7                 3.6                  3.6                  2.8                   4.5
Gross Domestic I-vestment                 29.24          21.8
Gross National Saving                     28.55          21.3
Current Account Ba1a..e   A/              -0.85         - 0.6
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN  1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force               V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.              7.             Mil.      7.                US          7. of National Avercae
Agriculture                           39.8                39.6           181.3      71                220                 56
Industry                              25.5               25.3             28.1      11                906                230
Services                              35. 3              35.1             46.0      18                767                195
Tot.l/v-ra.g                         100.6               100.0           255.4    100                 394                100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                               Central Governrnt
Re. Bln.              7. of GDP                                  Ns. 31..             7. of GDP
1979/8O       1979/80   1975/76-1979/80                          1979180       1979/NO      1975/76-1979180
Current Receipt.                     208.18          19.2           18.9                               108.96         10.0            10.6
Current Expenditures                 206.44          19.0           17.7                               117.67         10.8            10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit                 1.74          0.2            1.2                               - 8.71        - 0.8              -
Capital E.penditures   f/             81.81           7.5            7.4                                56.93          5.2             5.1
Ettern.1 Assistance (net)  d/          7.97           0.7            0.9                                 7.97          0.7             0.9
MONEY. CREIT AND PRICES             1970/71       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77       L977178      1978/79      1i79/80        Deember 1979        Decembr 1960
(R. Billion outstnding at end of period)
M.oney and Quasi  .on.y                109.6        175.7        194.6        222.9          272.8        329.1        398.9         468.2            448.3             521.7
Bark Credit to Government (net)        52.6          87.3         95.3        101.1          110.2        134.7        153.9        192.2             176.4             231.4
Bank Credit to Cercial Sector    64.6               107,0        126.7        153.9          185.0        212.2        253.5        306.5             294.7             335.9
(PercentaRe or Index Numbers)                                                               Aeril-D"c 1979    April-De  190
Money and Quas.i Money as 7. of GDP   27.2           29.8         27.9         30.2           34.0         36.5         40.8          43.1
Wholesale Price Inde.
(1970/71 - 100)                     100.0        139.7        174.9         173.0         176.6        185.8        185.8         217.6             212.2            253.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Inden                    7.7         20.2         25.2        - 1.1            2.1          5.2            -          17.1              14.6             19.5
Bank Credit to Government (nec)        10.8          12.3          9.2          6.1            9.0         22.2         14.3         24.9              24.9  A/          31.2  M
B-ak Credit to Cercial Sector    19.4                22.6         18.4         21.5          20.2          14.7         19.5         20.9              17.5  11/         14.0  h/
a/  The per capit. GNP estimte  is at  arket prices, calculated by the converion technique used in the World Baak Atlas, 1979.
All other conversion, to dollars in tbis table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
~J  Quick Esti..tes.
c/ Computed from trend line of UNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of. listed period.
d/ World Bank estiatea; not necessarily coneistent eith official figurea.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
E/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
2J  Percentage change from end-Dece-ber 1978 to end-Dece.ber 1979.
J   Percentage change from end-December 1979 to end-Decmber 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1977/78      1978/79    1979/80    1980/81               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979180)
US$ KIn.        z
Exports of Goods                         6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998              Engineering Goods              768 J        11
Imports of Goods                        -7,188       -8,519    -11,249      -15,624              Tea                            462           7
Trade Balance                           - 873        -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626                Gems                           605           9
NFS (net)                                  691          773          633         463             Clothing                       460           7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                         - 182        - 768    - 2.658      - 6.163                     Products                425           6
Jute Hanufactures             284            4
Interest Payments (net)  i/               - 89         - 35          350         303             Iron Ore                       298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -             -           -           -              Cotton Textiles                289           4
Net Transfers i/                         1,077        1,216       1,458       2,462              Sugar                          132           2
Others                      3,028           45
Balance on Current Account                 806          413       - 850      -3.398
Total                       6.751          100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,628        1,695       1,891       2,389              EXTERNAL DEBT, MAIGI  31, 1980
Amortization                          - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                    USS billion
Transactions with D4F                    - 330        - 158          -        1,035              Outstanding and Disbursed                   15.6
All Other Items                            617          286       - 143          133             Undisbursed                                  5.7
Outstanding, including                      21.3
Increase in Reserves ()                 -2,076       -1,534       - 222         548                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                5,823        7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  /             5,668        7,357       7,579       6,691              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80   /!/  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                       IBRD/IDA LlIDD8, DECDSE  31. 1960
Imports                                  1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                    USS million
of which:  Petroleum                  1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                IERD        IDi
Exports                                     32           24          26         n.a.             Outstanding and Disbursed          806         4,895
Undisbursed                        572         3,547
Outstanding, including           1,378         8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979               US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0. 126
Spot Rate end-Decenber 1980               US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
h/  Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major paments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
t/ Excludes net use of IPW credit.
j/ Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
A/ mortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
ApriL 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                              (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                       Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
44 Loans/                                                        1,422.2         -           -
71 Credits fully disbursed                                            -    4,023.4           -
342-IN    1972  India   Education                                    -        12.0         3.23
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural Markets               -         8.0        006
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing & Marketing              -        13.0         5.24
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                    52.0         -         10.51
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy                              -        30.0        15.86
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD                          -        83.0        28.53
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy                              -        27.7       12.37
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy                         -        16.4         4.82
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI                            94.6         -         0.79
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric. Development               -        34.0         1.29
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                   -        40.0       13.73
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry                          -       105.0       21.37
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV                        -       150.0       43.24
609-IN    1976  India   Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                 -         4.0         1.51
610-IN    1976  India   Integrated Cotton Development                -        18.0       10.23
1251-IN    1976  India   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                 145.0         -        77.09
1260-IN    1976  India   IDBI II                                    40.0         -        10.94
1273-IN    1976  India   National Seeds I                           25.0         -        21.86
1313-IN    1976  India   Telecommunications VI                      80.0         -        18.25
1335-IN    1976  India   Bombay Urban Transport                     25.0         -         7.72
680-IN    1977  India   Kerala Agric. Development                    -        30.0       22.98
682-IN    1977  India   Orissa Agric. Development                    -        20.0         7.93
685-IN    1977  India   Singrauli Thermal Power                      -       150.0       37.72
687-IN    1977  India   Madras Urban Development                     -        24.0        4.57
690-IN    1977  India   WB Agric. Extension & Research               -        12.0       12.00
1394-IN    1977  India   Gujarat Fisheries                          14.0         -         7.75
712-IN    1977  India   Madhya Pradesh Agric. Development            -       10.0         5.35
720-IN    1977  India   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                    -        23.0       13.68
728-IN    1977  India   Assam Agricultural Development               -         8.0        5.64
736-IN    1977  India   Maharashtra Irrigation                       -        70.0       30.33
737-IN    1977  India   Rajasthan Agric. Extension                   -       13.0         7.29
740-IN    1977  India   Orissa Irrigation                            -        58.0       29.65
1475-IN    1977  ICICI   Industry DFC XII                           80.0        -         10.36



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower        Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
747-IN    1978  India   Second Foodgrain Storage                       -       107.0        79.00
756-IN    1978  India   Calcutta Urban Development II                  -        87.0        19.11
761-IN    1978  India   Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                  -         8.0         7.11
1511-IN    1978  India   IDBI Joint/Public Sector                     25.0         -         17.49
1549-IN    1978  TEC       Third Trombay Thermal Power               105.0         -         62.96
788-IN    1978  India   Karnataka Irrigation                           -       117.6        77.28
793-IN    1978  India   Korba Thermal Power                            -       200.0       128.89
806-IN    1978  India   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                     -        14.0        13.75
808-IN    1978  India   Gujarat Irrigation                             -        85.0        63.60
815-IN    1978  India   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                       -        17.5        14.52
816-IN    1978  India   National Seeds II                              -        16.0        15.21
1592-IN    1978  India   Telecommunications VII                      120.0         -         53.14
824-IN    1978  India   National Dairy                                 -       150.0       130.60
842-IN    1979  India   Bombay Water Supply II                         -       196.0       183.12
843-IN    1979  India   Haryana Irrigation                             -       111.0        43.66
844-IN    1979  India   Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                              -      190.0       148.97
848-IN    1979  India   Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage                 -        38.0        21.46
855-IN    1979  India   National Agricultural Research                 -        27.0        25.41
862-IN    1979  India   Composite Agricultural Extension               -        25.0        16.54
871-IN    1979  India   NCDC                                           -        30.0        15.55
1648-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                     50.0         -         50.00
874-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                       -      200.0        171.17
889-IN    1979  India   Punjab Irrigation                              -      129.0        100.81
899-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Water Supply                       -        48.0        44.85
911-IN    1979  India   Rural Electrification Corp. II                 -      175.0        108.09
925-IN    1979  India   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry                  -        23.0        18.47
947-IN    1979  India   ARDC III                                       -      250.0        64.73
963-IN    1979  India   Inland Fisheries                               -        20.0        19.64
954-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Irrigation II                      -      210.0       174.13
961-IN    1979  India   Gujarat Community Forestry                     -       37.0        30.31
981-IN    1980  India   Population II                                 -        46.0        45.44
1003-IN    1980  India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition                           -       32.0        30.87
1004-IN    1980  India   U.P. Tubewells                                -        18.0        16.95
1011-IN    1980  India   Gujarat Irrigation II                          -      175.0       165.00
1027-IN    1980  India   Singrauli Thermal II                          -       300.0       279.15
1012-IN    1980  India   Cashewnut                                      -       22.0        21.75
1028-IN    1980  India   Kerala Agricultural Extension                 -        10.0        10.00
1033-IN    1980  India   Calcutta Urban Transport                       -       56.0        56.00
1034-IN    1980  India   Karnataka Sericulture                          -       54.0        52.85
1046-IN    1980  India   Rajasthan Water Supply



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
and Sewerage                              -        80.0        77.22
1843-IN    1980  ICICI   Industry DFC XIII                          100.0         -         77.97
1887-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                       25.0         -         25.00
1053-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                         -       225.0       201.16
1897-IN    1980  India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                        30.0         -         29.01
1072-IN    1980  India   Bihar Rural Roads                             -        30.7        30.30
1078-IN    1980  India   Mahanadi Barrages                             -        72.8        72.80
1925-IN    1980  India   Bombay High Offshore
Development                           400.0         -        393.42
1082-IN    1981  India   Madras Urban Dev. II                          -        37.5        37.50
1108-IN    1981  India   M.P. Medium Irrigation                        -       129.6       129.60
1112-IN    1981  India   Telecommunications VIII                       -       290.4       268.70
1116-IN    1981  India   Karnataka Tank Irrigation                     -        50.1        50.10
1135-IN*   1981  India   Maharashtra Agr. Extension                    -        21.7        21.70
1137-IN*   1981  India   Tamil Nadu Agr. Extension                     -        26.3        26.30
1138-IN*   1981  India   Madhya Pradesh Agr. Extension II              -        34.9        34.90
1146-IN*   1981  India   NCDC II                                       -       117.1       117.10
Total                                               2,832.8   9,322.7
of which has been repaid                          1,090.2       77.7
Total now outstanding                               1742.6   95.
Amount Sold                        133.8
of which has been repaid        133.3                 0.5         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                   1,742.1   9,245.0
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                        874.3   3,620.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
rage 4 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -       0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4      1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0       0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1      1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -       6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5       1.0       8.6
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3      3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -       2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.3      1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         136.7       12.0    148.7
Less:   Sold                          26.0        1.7      27.7
Repaid                        22.2         -      22.2
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      82.3        9.0      91.3
Undisbursed                   79.3        1.5     80.8



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year, representing an increase of about 32%.
The undisbursed pipeline of US$4,494 million as of June 30, 1981, reflects
the lead time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and
slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the
last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1916
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of Decem-
ber 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implemention of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored. Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost of approximately
Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a
further eight subprojects are in various stages of preparation and appraisal.
Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway though disbursements
have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of project operations.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
mi ion loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
mi1lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,



ANNEX II
Page ll of 18
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June_2 3,- 1987



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 1138 Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in
terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a
change in government brought a review of the organizational principles under-
lying the new extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project
implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's
commitment to the project, revised implementation plans have been prepared,
and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly
in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered project implementation,
although progress in areas where regular extension visits are being made
attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Kar-
nataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project,
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken to pave
the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension system and field
work is off to a good start. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts after some initial start-up delays. Early progress
on civil works and initiation of the program in the remaining eight districts
will be required to regain the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil
Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation has just begun, as these credits
became effective only recently. Early project review missions are scheduled
to assist in project initiation.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date (expected): October 21, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of October 1980, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, and according
to quarterly reports through March 1981, construction of godowns was
progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, although some
delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Consultants had been recruited
to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institu-
tions, although some consultants were yet to be recruited in Haryana. Dis-
bursements have been progressing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets.
Credit 1146, which was signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construc-
tion of cooperative godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to
support the pre- and post-harvest supply and markting requirements in nine
States; promote the development of cooperative institutions in these States;
and expand cooperative subproject preparation and appraisal activities within
the cooperative sector. Preparatory implementation work is well advanced in
most of the participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date; October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being
reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses in
September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in Novem-
ber 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities have
been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a result, the



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily. Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, fnancial and managerial performance is lagging somewhat behing
expectations and must now receive project authorities' full attention if
physical and financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Bids have been invited for the first year program of rural road
construction to allow work to start following the monsoon. The whole project
aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to improve main-
tenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's overall
rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is starting to
arrive.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when the first of these projects was last
reviewed, the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1T/8; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has
been carrying out construction and operation of these power stations.
Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata
Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast
load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects
are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construction works
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897  Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka.
Start-up activities have commenced.



ANNEX III
Page I of 2
INDIA
SECOND RAMAGUNDAM THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       (a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
The project represents the second stage of the third
Centrally-owned large-scale power station in India.
Preparation of the present project was part of a
continuing process.
(b) The agencies which have prepared the project
National Thermal Power Corporation;
Ministry of Energy; Central Electricity Authority.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
Preliminary feasibility report became available in
October 1980. The scope of the project was discussed
at the time of the appraisal of the first stage of
the Ramagundam development in April 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 20, 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
November 19, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 1982.
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOI to ensure adequate coal supplies (para 49);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) NTPC to inform the Bank of any proposal to modify
existing limitations on its borrowing powers (para 59);
(c) NTPC to achieve and maintain a rate of return of 9.5%
by 1990/91, and to set tariffs from the time of
commissioning of its first generating unit at levels
necessary to achieve this rate of return (para 57);
(d) NTPC to sell at least 85% of the output of power from
the project under satisfactory bulk supply contracts
(para 51); and
(e) GOI to conclude a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with NTPC
(condition of loan effectiveness, para 54).






2-~ ~ ~ ~~~~ -                                                                                                     N E PA L                                       HTAN92
2Q                      /} >.N~~~~~~~~oohp  9Roo     Sos,,, b:d,o       Go ,\oro          ,1                                        M, zzoIoPo =dee oI
bleshwor /@ / j<uPUr Ax 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X l.  /
Udo,pEC      O        ND RAMAPPUT   ', v                                         >- BA GLADFSH 4L
eoooroogo,          -                 -; A/Loo 5ro Goy           /     f/nM*                                                                               YR  >fRSAfN
\#~~~~~~  gthfong genso  Cudp=hf )booor                                                                                                                                                             BU  ** HRMAt oiRSAfN
-24
H.Ij~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
B~t2 hoort i  aO**S6TTO4 
i;KudrewukhSCON  7  tgott - 'k RANMAGNUNDAM 4
R  k.R>U                                                                                                                                                                    R M   A U  O  O   STANS
Sea ~        ~                         Ag                                                                                                     A           THERMAL P OWER RECi ATNIOUNiASr
_ [_   Kozhs tZ5sk  Kt   . a m  7;   t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[~                                                   NUTLATE BOUND  SARtION
yWhN}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rl                                                              0          SIJRS/!  -_ tTEATIONStBDDRE
t /  Xlid rvi                   0             200      ~      ~~~    ~~~~~~  400 c00          BRNSI0IO  LINES
12' ~     ~           ~           ~SLoil                                                                                                                         220 TV TRANSMISSIONLLINTSRIC
-oPtOVtiWo TaSfE Ybhh V<s  O  - )  \  220 mV TRANSMImSION LINE2
-gb.dartstshcwnra2wthisntiXpdonatl"r;RXytentderheeenfn5dueRwlefsfused(ootso Todo C  , S                                                            o Ioo,or,
\  ...                                                                       K.I.b~~~~ -KLOETRS0
nthrttssseyUdEstmfhtled/tsurszsetarteyevn7adssemntfh1                           M-g .s                                                  IN        I
sEfbsorroafsoohzanundSEO DR ALAGUNDAM
Th, ~o 150 ooso0oordb 00 Wod Koo 1-psf!ooTHERMAoLITo,sPO WEROKo                                                                                               PROJECTco,o 
2'AN.1.    A                                                         A          THRML'OW-BSTTIN
S   2a                                  76'A



