Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12769-R0
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
RMIA
EmPLOYmHEIT MID SOCIAL PRCTEEOIW PROJECT
OCTOBER 31, 1994
IhZan Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Soutbern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CU1RRENCYEOIANT
Currency Unit - Leu (Plural Lei)
US$1.00 = Lei 1725
(September 1994)
WEIGHS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CICAG      Career Information and Counseling Advisory Group
CICWG    Career Information and Counseling Working Group
COPP       Central Office of Pension Payments
CTB        Country Training Board
ES         Employment Services
IAS        Industrial Adjustment Service
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IRMD       Information Resources Management Directorate
LCB        Local Competitive Bidding
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
MOE        Ministry of Education
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOI        Ministry of Industry
MOLSP    Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
NTB        National Training Board
OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
POM        Project Operating Manual
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
RATC       Regional Adult Training Center
SBDs       Standard Bidding Documents
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
TA         Technical Assistance
TACI       Technical Assistance and Critical Imports (Project)
TCC        Technical Coordination Committee
TD         Technical Department
TOR        Terms of Reference
UB         Unemployment Benefit
VAT        Value Added Tax
DEFlNMflONS
Romania is divided into 41 counties or districts called 'judets' which form the geographical base for
both the territorially deconcentrated central govermment administration and the local government
system. The counties are in turn divided into 2,948 municipalities, including 260 urban communities
and 2,688 rural communities.



ROMMAIA
Em"fOifAM                              RaECIN ROPCT
grAFF
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary              .............................................  i
I. ECONOMIC REFORM  AND THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET  ...................... 1
A. 1ntrduction  ............................................... 1
B. Ihe Curront System  of Employment Services and Social Protection .                   ............ 1
C. Labor MarketIssues .               .........................................  3
D. Soci  Policy IsNues  ..............................  6
E. Govenment Sector Policies and Rationale for Ban............... 7
H. THE.             T ................................................ 10
A. Project Objectives ...........................................  10
B. Project Description
1. General M naemet and Policy  .............................  11
2. Employent and Training Component  .........................  13
3. Social Protection .......................................  18
M. P            C         FINANCING AND I.L...NTA....................  22
A^. Projet Cons  . .................................................  22
B. Project Financig .             ..........................................  26
C. Project Management and Implementation  ............................  27
D. Project Procurement and Disburement .............................  31
E. Project Reporting ad  Evaluation  .................................  34
F. Status of Prepaation .........................................  34
TV.  EEF. AND RSKS  .............                             ..............................  36
A. Benefits  .        ...............................................   36
B. Risks................................................... 6
V. AGREEMENTSREACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .....................  37
This reort is based on findig  of an appraial mission which visitod Romnia in JunmJuly 1993. Th   nison
compnped Maurice Boissim (Task Mag), Svemr Sirs i  (Smnior Implemeation Specia), Louis Fox,
(Eonomis), David Frtwel (Siior Employmmnt and Training Specialist), Richad Freami ojctx  Officer -
Reddeot Mision), Salbina Huffua  (Program Assistant), and co.urtant Azas Ardhr (Social Asistnc), Phillip
Juvis (Counsin, Jea-Paul Pe              (Manageu  Trn g), and Cnelo Uribe (Socia Astc). Ros
Pam  ad Toni Kol     pwovide  a tance with text proceig and editig. The Peor Rviwers are Arvil van
Adam  (ESP), Emmnuel Jim z (PRDPH) ad Sverir Sigurdason (ESP). Mr. Ralph W. Harbison is the Divisio
Cief, and Mr. Michael H. Wih= the Contry Director.



RiMANI
E3fPLQXNMaN AND SOCIAL PROIfEC1ON PROlECr
rAEI APPRALREPOR
Table of Contents (Continued)
Table 3.1:     Project Summary by Project Component ........................... 22
Table 3.2:     Project Summary by Category of Expenditure  ........           ................ 23
Table 3.3:     Expenditure Accounts by Components .............              ............... 25
Table 3.4:     Project Components by Financiers ............................... 26
Table 3.5:     Expenditure Accounts by Source of Financing  ........           ............... 27
Table 3.6:     Financing Requirements by Project Year ...........................                  27
Table 3.7:  Procurement Arrangements .31
Chart 3.1:  Implementation Arrangements .28
Annee
Annex 1:       Institutional Description of the Cash Benefit System .................... 41
Annex 2:       Labor and Social Statistics ...................................  59
Annex 3:       Leter of Deveoment Policy ..................................  69
Annex 4:       Social Assistance White Paper: Executive Summary .......           ............. 77
Annex 5:       Social Insurance White Paper: Executive Summary  .......           ............. 85
Annex 6:       Career Infbrmation and Counseling Protocol .........           ............... 93
Annex 7:       National Training Board Protocol ............................... 97
Annex 8:       Criteria for Adult Training Programs ............................. 101
Annex 9:       Detailed Costs and Implementation Schedule  ........          ............... 111
Annex 10:      Summary of Technical Assistance . .............................. 133
Annex 11:      Summary of Fellowships andT             ............Train............... 139
Annex 12:      Estimated Disbursement Profile ................................  143
Annex 13:  Monitoring Indicators .145
Annex 14:   Project Objectives and Activities Matrix .151
Annex 15: Implementation Plan .185
Annex 16: Supervision Plan .195
Annex 17:  Base Procurement Implementation Plan .197
Map:           IBRD 25020R



ROMANIA
EIOYMT AND SOC&IA PROTECrION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Romania
Benefcdaa:          Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP)
Amount:             US$55.4 million equivalent
TerIms:             Twenty years, including a five-year grace period at the BRD standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Objectives:         The project will support the Government's efforts to alleviate unomployment
and poverty, improve the efficiency and affordability of employment and
social protection services, and promote labor productivity and economic
competitiveness. The specific objectives of the project are to: (a) strengthen
the capacity of labor offices to administer increasing mumbers of claims for
unemployment benefits and active labor adjustment services (e.g., job
placement, employment counseling, training); (b) develop a flexible adult
training system which responds to evolving labor market demand resulting
from economic restructuring; and (c) implement reforms in social insurance
and assistance programs, targeting those population groups which are most
vulnerable to falling into poverty during and after the transition to a market
economy.
Project
Description:        The project will be implemented over a five-year period by the MOLSP. The
total project cost is estimated at US$81.6 million base cost, and US$95.2
million total cost (including contingencies). The project will finance civil
works, equipment and materials, vehicles, computer hardware and software,
technical assistance, external and local training, and incremental operating
costs. lhe project comprises three interrelated components structured as
fbllows:
I. General Management and Policy: (a) Monitoring and Policy Analysi
of the programs to be introduced under Components II and m below, so that
the MOLSP will have the capability to evaluate and improve the cost-
effectiveness its programs; (b) Automation of the labor and social protection
offices to support and improve the management of programs to be introduced;
and (c) Project Management support to expand and stregthen the already
functioning Project Coordination Unit established under the Technical
Assistance and Critical Imports (TACI) Project, enabling support (e.g.,
overall coordination, procurement) to the technical departments responsible for
implementation.



_jj-
II. Eplonyelnt and Training: (a) Employment Services which will
improve the organization and delivery of services in the labor offices,
including development of Industrial Adjustment Services to deal with large-
scale layoffs; (b) Career Information and Counseling which will develop
modem materials and techniques to support occupational counseling in labor
offices and schools; and (c) Adult Trainig for employed and unemployed
workers to reorient and improve their skdlls in a market-oriented environment.
m. Sodal Protection: (a) Sodal Insurance reforms, based upon a receady
completed government White Paper, which will restructure the social
insurance agency to unify the various pension funds and improve its financial
management, contributions records system and benefit disbursements; and
(b) Social Assistance reforms, also based upon a recently completed
government White Paper, which will develop an integrated system of cash
benefits to replace the currently fragmented system, improve the organization
of social service delivery and target assistance to those most vulnerable to
poverty.
Benenfts
adARbka:            Benefia. The project will significantly assist in the restructuring of the
economy by stengthening the capacity to cope with unemployment, improving
labor mobility, and providing the new skills needed in a market economy.
Upon completion of the project, Romania will have in place an employment
service and job training system which will quickly respond to shifting market
needs. The MOLSP will improve Its organization and management
capabilities through the automation and project monitoring to be put into
place. The social safety net, which the project will help build up, will
strengthen the political will needed to pursue economic reforms during the
period when poverty and other social problems intensify. These benefits from
the social safety net are not just of a humantarian nature but, as demonstrated
by the experience of OECD countries, represent a significant investment in
human resources and contribute to financial savings by avoiding more serious
problems resulting from neglect of pressing social needs.
Risk. A major risk to successful implementation of the project is that the
present implementaion capacity of the MOLSP is insufficiently developed
relative to the complexity of the tasks of building up both reactive and
proactive employment and social protection programs. Although MOLSP has
now acquired implementation experience in the smaller-scale TACI Project,
this much larger project will require strengthening the implementation capacity
of the MOLSP. The implementation plan incorporate lessons learned in the
TACI Project, and appropriate and sufficient amouns of TA and training,
focusing on helping the MOLSP make the transition to largescale project
management. A project supervision plan has been formulated to assist the
MOLSP in following Bank guidelines by helping in the preparation of
standard bidding and contract documents. Nonetheless, intense supervision
from headquarters and the resident mission will be required to minimize the
risk posed by weak implementation capacity.



A second important risk to successful implementation is that of inadequate
financing for the incremental operating costs, especially for additional staffing
required under the Employment Services Component. This has been a
problem in other countries in the region, especially as unemployment rises
sharply and Government budgets become increasingly constrained, where
additional staff budgets are not allocated to increase and improve the quality
of services. Ibis risk is being addressed by explicitly highlighting the need
for incremental staffing, including it in the project cost esdmates, and securing
the commitment of both the Ministry of Finance and the MOLSP to adequate
staffing levels.



-iv-
Estimate Project Costml
L L  Forein        T
-USS million-
I. General Management & Policy
A. Monitoring & Policy Analysis              0.8       3.1       3.9
B. Automation                                6.9       14.3    21.2
C. Project Management                        0.4        1.0      1.4
Subtotal                                           8.1       18.4    26.5
H. Employment & Training
A. Employment Services                      12.9        S.8     18.8
B. Career Information & Counseling           2.7        3.5      6.2
C. Adult Training                            6.5       14.6    21.1
SubIoal                                           22.2       23.9     46.1
m. Social Protection
A. Social Insurance                          0.8        3.0      3.8
B. Social Assistance                         2.8        2.6      5.3
SubtotaI                                          3.6        5.4      9.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                              33.9       47.7     81.6
Physical Contingencies                       3.2        4.2      7.5
Price Contingencies                          3.1        3.1      6.2
Total PROJCT COSTS                                40.1       55.1    95.2Lb
Financng Plan:
-JUSS million
Government       30.5        6.6       37.0
Canada            0.0        0.7        0.7
Germany           0.0        0.9        0.9
US Dept.
of Labor         0.0        1.2        1.2
IBRD              9.6       45.8       55.4
TOTAL                                  2
Estimated Disbursemet
IBRD FY               l9 9S                  1226   1227   1299  2QQ ZQ1!
Annual                   5.0    13.8    17.6    7.4    6.0   5.0  0.6
Cumulative               5.0    18.8    36.4   43.8   49.8  S4.8 55.4
cumulative               9       34      66      79     90    98 100
as % of total
11    Figures may not total exaucly du to rounding.
21    Including taxes and dutie of US$8.7 million.
1/    Acual disburments have bee estimaed over ax calendar year, assummg project effectiveness tird
quarter FY95.



ROMANIA
EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECr
I. ECONOMIC REFORM AND THE SOCIAL SAFErY NET
A.    Introductio
1.1   Romania's economy, after a decade of stagnation in the 1980s, has deteriorated dramatically
over the past four years since the end of the Ceausescu era in December 1989. Output has dropped
by 33 percent, and infladon has risen drastically, reaching 200 percent in 1992 and 295 percent in
1993. Although inflation appeared to be declining in early 1994, the level of unemployment rose to
about 11 percent - a level which will continue to increase as the process of economic restructuring is
undertaken. Improvements in economic performance and social welfare will require a munber of
difficult structural adjustments to overcome the economic policy distortions of the Ceausescu era, such
as the forced industrialization of the economy and artificially maintained full employment. One result
of these policy distortions has been that the majority of public enterprises are very poorly prepared to
operate in a market economy. As in the past, they are overstaffed, employ obsolete technology, and
are managed with little regard for market incentives. Moreover, the private sector remains small, and
its limited growth under the slow pace of reforms has not yet substantially contributed to net job
creation. Problems of structural unemployment, which are already developing, will undoubtedly
continue to worsen.
1.2   The current social protection system, which was designed for a socialist, full employment
economy, and met only the special needs of individuals, such as widows, orphans or the handicapped,
has also been overwhelmed by developments over the past four years. This outdated system cannot
cope with the social consequences of structural adjustment. Although living standards may well rise
in the medium to long run as structural adjustment proceeds, the Government recognizes the urgency
of developing new active labor market policies and social safety net programs that aim to help
alleviate unemployment and poverty during and after the transition period.
B.    The Current System of Employment Services and Social Protection
1.3   There are two broad categories of cash benefits provided by the current system - those based
on contributions by beneficiaries, such as unemployment benefits and pensions, and those funded out
of the state budget, such as child allowances and social assistance benefits. These benefits are
administered mainly by the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP) with some involvement
from enterprises for social insurance benefits, and from local governments for social assistance
benefits. Most of these benefits, especially the pro-natalist ones to encourage larger families, were
inherited from the communist era, but others have been put in place since 1990, such as the
unemployment benefit (UB) scheme which became law in December 1990 and was extended in 1992.
Cash benefits and services for the handicapped were created and their administration transferred from
MOLSP to the Secretariat for the Handicapped in 1991; other benefits were reformed (child
allowance, social canteens). There were no means-tested cash benefits programs targeted on poor
households.



-2-
1.4    To carry out its programs, the MOLSP has an extensive network of local offices throughout
the country. In each of Romania's 40 districts or counties (judets) there is a MOLSP directorate,
which is the deconcentrated authority of the MOLSP in the judet and has the same structure as the
Ministry (see Annex 1 for an organization chart and detailed description of benefit programs). Most
districts have a main MOLSP office and several branch offices; the Municipality of Bucharest is
divided into seven district offices. All of the 40 judet main offices include sections (and sometimes
separate facilities) for labor (employment), social assistance and pensions services. Including branch
offices, the resulting network totals about 170 labor offices and about 50 social assistance and pension
offices, representing the MOLSP's safety net service delivery points.
1.5    Unenployment benefits (UB). At present, eligibility for UB extends to anyone over 18 years
old who is unemployed due to liquidation or shrinkage of a firm or is a new entrant to the labor
force 1'. The UB scheme is funded by a 5 percent tax on the wage bill of enterprises and a 1 percent
tax on the wages of employees. The level of benefit ranges from 50-60 percent of the annual average
wage in the last job (depending upon the length of time in the labor force) or from 75-85 percent of
the minimum wage if the last wage was below minimum wage. The duration of benefit is 270 days,
with a possible extension of 270 days at a lower rate of benefit. Benefit checks, once approved by
the local labor offices, are delivered through the postal system. The unemployed report to the local
labor offices to register, and must report back at least once a month to confirm their unemployment
status.
1.6     ocial insurance. Social insurance has widespread coverage in Romania. It includes
essentially universal entitlement to old age, disability, and survivors' pensions, as well as sick and
maternity leaves. The system is complicated by the existence of multiple social insurance funds. The
main state pension system covers roughly three quarters of the labor force. There are at least ten
other smaller social insurance funds, the agricultural fund being the most important one. The other
funds attend to specific occupational categories (artists, clergymen, etc.). The average pension benefit
from the main State fund equals about 40 percent of the average gross wage, and the replacement rate
is 52 percent on average (higher for recent retirees). Social insurance benefits are not taxable. They
are funded by a payroll tax, paid mostly by the employer on behalf of the employee. Sick leave and
maternity leave are administered mainly through the enterprises. The Central Office of Pension
Payments (COPP), under the supervision of MOLSP, along with the enterprises and the banking
system, is much more involved in the administration of the old age and disability pensions. The banks
receive the insurance contributions from enterprises which are then transferred to the pension fund
account of MOLSP. Pensioners must visit the Social Protection unit within the local MOLSP office
to register and have their eligibility for pensions approved, but payments are made regularly through
the postal system. In 1992, responsibility for funding and monitoring the first ten days' sick leave
was transferred from the social insurance agency to the enterprises, resulting in a substantial reduction
of expenditures on these benefits.
1.7    Sialaistanc. Social assistance, by contrast, has reduced coverage and consists mostly of
the delivery of cash benefits, most of which are not means tested. In the past, the system included
the provision of expanded social support services, but since the 1970s this function has been reduced.
At present, very limited social support services are offered: they include free meals at social canteens,
[/    Thu Ia fsswi a ae2Uy a mm tod benet an apli oly to unemployed school leve fm low inwom
househods. It iu to be iegratd inw the ne sa easistm  befit schem.



-3-
voluntary placement of children in foster families, placement of the elderly in pensioners' homes and
of juveniles in detention centers, and one center for street children. Each MOLSP district office has a
social assistance unit with an average staff of five; the central unit at the Ministry consists of 16 staff.
The benefits paid through social assistance offices include the allowances for mothers of three or more
children, birth indemnities, benefits for the wives of soldiers, voluntary foster family placement
benefits, and circumstantial benefits for pensioners. Although not based on contributions, the child
allowance for children of State workers was traditionally administered through the enterprises.
Recently, a new law stipulated that the allowance is for all children, not just those whose parents are
State workers, and its administration has been shifted from the enterprises to the social assistance
system. These child allowances account for 80 percent of all social assistance expenditures.
Approval of free meals at social canteens and of quarterly benefits for the destitute is given by social
assistance offices and funded by MOLSP and local government, and these services are administered
by the local authorities. Although the MOLSP is not directly responsible, institutionalization of
children is widely used for children's welfare. In 1991, more than 92,000 children were living in
these institutions which are, like other institutions for the handicapped and the elderly, administered
by other ministries and bodies. No programs exist to assist the working poor.
C.    Labor Market Issues
1.8    A successful transition to a market economy requires the development of functioning labor
markets as well as product and financial markets. During this period of stabilization and
restructuring, labor market problems will intensify. Unemployment will continue to increase.
lnstitutions need to be strengthened to accelerate market adjustment. However, present employment
services are inadequate. In some cases, unemployment will result from large-scale layoffs that affect
whole communities and require special approaches. Active labor market measures, such as retraining,
are also needed for some workers. These issues are discussed in the following paragraphs.
1.9 Rising unemployment and ineffective employment services. By September 1993, labor offices
had a client:staff ratio of 668:1, compared to an average of 100:1 in OECD countries. Consequently,
staff can barely keep up with the most basic activity of processing unemployment claims (see Annex 2
for statistical information on unemployment and the labor force). However, it is not enough merely
to process unemployment claims and let the unemployed fend for themselves without any other kind
of support, especially in countries where unemployment is a new phenomenon. 'here is the need for
more proactive measures, in addition to unemployment benefits, such as effective job development
and placement programs for clients, improved counseling of clients in job search methods, directing
clients who can benefit from retraining to appropriate programs, and screening clients likely to be
successful in self-employment and direcing them to the appropriate small business assistance
agencies. All of these new services require increases in staffing, especially at a time of rising
unemployment, as well as a different skills mix among the staff.
1.10   Private employment services could play a role in helping meet this need. These services are
allowed to operate under Romanian commercial law, which places no more restrictions on them than
on any other commercial venture. It is expected that these services will become providers of
specialized manpower services, as has been the case in other OECD and formerly centrally planned
economies. Private employment services are usually effective in special niches of the labor market,
such as certain professional occupations, and develop on their own based upon private profit
incentives without the need for government subsidies, as long as the legal framework does not hamper
them. However, private employment services cannot profitably provide, in Romania anymore than



-4-
elsewhere in the world, the integrated system of unemployment and social assistance claims
processing and the needed assistance to workers lacking in basic educational background or in need of
extensive, retraining. The existence of capital market and information imperfections and social
externalities provides a theoretical rationale for carefully designed improvements in public
employment services. There is also the practical rationale that the public employment services
already exist, and constitute a significant charge on the public budget while operating ineffectively and
inefficiently, coupled with the reality that it will take some time for an extensive private sector to
fully develop. Through careful improvements in public employment services while allowing private
employment services to continue to develop, Romania should move towards a good balance of private
and public employment services, which will complement rather than compete with one another; this
shift will move Romania into the mainstream practice with OECD and middle-income industrialized
countries.
1.11 Coping with large-scale lavoffs. Although quantitative estimates of future large-scale layoffs
are not easy to obtain, many informed observers conclude that at least 20-25 percent of workers
currently in State enterprises can potentially be considered surplus. This conclusion is plausible
considering that industrial output has dropped by 50 percent since 1989, and industrial employment
has only dropped by 25 percent.2' To date there have not been any large-scale layoffs, but the
MOLSP esimates that, if these enterprises are restructured or privatized, an additional 1.5 million
workers would be threatened with job loss in the process. There is no specific advance notice
legislation pertaining to layoffs of large groups of workers, other than the standard two week notice
applicable to all workers under labor regulations governing hiring and firing. Experience in other
countries clearly shows that adequate advance notice legislation in the case of large-scale layoffs
provides a useful first step in facilitating the smooth adjustment of affected workers. Effective
advance notice legislation is intended to ensure that the employees to be laid off, the enterprise, the
community, and the local authorities are sufficiently forewarned of the actual layoff to allow for early
intervention. Most countries with functioning labor adjustment mechanisms have two to three months
advance notice provisions. Mass layoff techniques, such as bringing together the management and
workers of firms before the layoffs take place, would prove useful in those regions most heavily
affected by unemployment. Professionally trained facilitators can assist management and workers by
preparing profiles of the firm's labor force and how best to assist in their redeployment to other jobs.
However, in addition to appropriate legal measures, effective mass layoff techniques require a set of
functioning proactive employment measures, such as job training or small business assistance
programs, as well as a service delivery mechanism to access these measures effectively, none of
which exist in Romania.
1.12 Structural unemployment and inadequate adult training. The gap between the skills
distribution demanded by the emerging market economy and that supplied by a labor force trained
under central planning has already resulted in structural unemployment (as contrasted with cyclical,
2I However, emtn   pl labor ill formly otmly plauned ecomm ia ompo      d ia moat oouni woud
requir relia  umple wneys of firm. In a ompoettive nud  eonomy, a 25% fall in emlynut due to a 50% fall in
output wWld imply an employm-outut eiaatiay of 0.5, flectinS hift in product demand, facor propoat, etc., nthr
thin hoarding of kW  naum   of labor. Nonedwle, k hs bem domento  in the comparatve economics itaure tht
labor hoarding w* a conmm pattem of behavio on the put of firm in most caliat e_conom  pior to 1989. In addition,
theme .od other Loctive nsfrlienoie, e.g., abaidized Stat finne contitaing to peduce thd wnig mix of prduct. Viaib
by Bank niasions to Romanian anteprim confirm unwaratod inventoy accumulation, uch - machine lather, for wbich
them is no realisic maukt denand.



-5-
frictional or seasonal unemployment). lhis is based on the view of the labor market, not just as an
aggregate demand and supply system, but as a system of distinct, intng labor markets that
determine the structure of wages, employment, vacancies and unemployment. Recent research on
labor markets and economic restructuring in Romania shows that unemployment already has a
significant structural component, in addition to unemployment from the drop in aggregate demand.>
While sound macroeconomic policy is needed to address aggregate demand deficiency, active labor
market programs, e.g., improved job matching and retraining, are needed to address structural
unemployment. Yet vocational training institutions, under the MOE, continue to graduate narrowly
trained workers using outdated pedagogy and equipment. State enterprises are more interested in
shedding than training workers and, when they do provide training, are only capable of on-the-job
training in fields for which there is declining demand. Furthermore, young adults have traditionally
been trained in a system with an excessively high proportion of overly specialized technical and
vocational secondary schools (75 percent of secondary level enrollment).
1.13   At present, both schools and labor offices lack a comprehensive, national source of caree
(occupational, educational, training, labor market) information. Career decisions are based more
upon traditional family influence and examination results than informed choice. As a result, most
youth and adults are exposed to incomplete and often inaccurate information on only a fraction of
their actual career options.
1.14  In addition, few individuals are being retrained in Romania Oess than two percent of the
unemployed in 1991 as opposed to 10-20 percent in OECD countries), and the current retraining
programs of the MOLSP are not effective. Labor office sponsored training programs have low
placement rates (about 15 percent on average) because, among other reasons, the staff cannot provide
proper screening and counseling backed up by adequate labor market analysis. With unemployment
rates which could average above 10 percent for the next five to ten years, large nmubers of workers
will need effective retraining annually. Although precise forecasts are not feasible, with the
Romanian labor force numbering about 11 million workers, training even 10 percent of the pool of
unemployed (about 1.1 million) would require an adult training system that could meet the needs of
100,000 workers each year. In addition to unemployed workers, many workers change jobs without
any or very short periods of unemployment, yet many of them also need retraining to improve their
productivity in their new jobs. If Romania is to increase its human capital stock per worker to
complement the needed expansion and renovation of its physical capital per worker, a major
restructuring of the adult training system is required. As in the case of the employment services, the
adult training system must rely upon private financing where the private rate of return is adequate and
State financing where the social returns exceed the private returns. There should also be an
appropriate balance of both private and public provision of training.
1.15 A dynamic, market-driven system of adult training, outside the monopoly control of the
Ministries of Labor and Education, administer  primarily by employer and labor representatives, is
needed. A diversified and decentralized approach is needed to develop such a system. First, some
I/ Rmreh in Romaia wa oonductd a pe of a Iuger DI a sDu qond resaeh projet on Eoononm Reatuictg iN
Labor Markaul in the Esm Euepe and Russia. All of th couriy cae sudies in this reerh project dommet this to
varyin degree, but th Romania ca   dy confimu that es  panning under the Ceausescu reime inroduoed mom bvee
dimortions. See EmDlvmeat wnd Wan Detminaton. Unmolobnta and Labor Policies in Rom, J. Ear and 0.
Oprs  (Pae prepard for World BDan Canfeence on Unmuploymat, R _saucuin and the Labor MareW in Etrn
Earope and Ruasia, October 1993).



-6-
individual training programs in existing public institutions can be revitalized, and new private training
programs encouraged, provided they meet minimum pedagogical and labor market demands. Second,
a more comprehensive overhaul of the governance and operation of exist  taining facilities should
be undertaken so that they can provide the broader range of community-based waining services needed
by adults that are common in modern market economies, but not yet available in most Romanian
institutions. It is crucial tha such a diversified approach be used becuse, while some capacity exists
for adult training, the broad institutional base for a modern adult training system does not exist in
Romania. Financial support to exist  training institutions, without a major change in govenance and
approach, or encouraging a frgmented short-term response from the private sector, will not result in
the types of adult training services needed in Romania.
D.    Social Policy Issa
1.16   Even if the issues discussed above are successfully addressed, a well functioning labor market
still may not prevent some individuals and households from falling below society's minimally
accepted standards of living and dignity - as is more likely to be the case during the period of
transition to a market economy. Thus issues of poverty alleviation, institutional weaknesses in
delivering new social safety programs, and the affordability of such programs in light of fiscal
constraints need to be addressed.
1.17              mM. The hardships inherited from decades of communism are compounded in
Romania by new problems stemming from the transition to a market economy. During the
communist era, guaante  jobs and pensions worked as a social safety net bcause many benefits
were dispensed at the workplace, although salaries and pension levels were very low. Substantial
subsidies for food, housing and transportation complemented these benefits, allowing most of the
population to avoid poverty, albeit at a fairly meager standard of living. These subsidies have now
been dismantled as part of the reform process. Furthermore, recent trends of growing unemployment
and inflation, self-employed workers outside the formal structures of social security, street children
and increased delinquency aggravate already difficult conditions for the population. The forme
system of socia protection is not nearly adequate to address these new problems. Two major groups
at risk of falling into poverty are the elderly, and households with dependent children where parents
are affected by unemployment and loss of income. To address these issues, a new approach to social
protection in Romania, which would rely more upon targeting cash assistance to families and less
upon in-kind services, must be designed and implemented.
1.18  Institutional wealcnesses. The present organizational structure of social protection is clearly
outdated for the social safety net needed in Romania today. Both social insurance and social
assistance programs have much to gain from greater harmonization, and this need for coordination
will only increase as the system develops and has a greater impact upon the lives of the Romanian
people. Problems persist with the adjudication mechanisms, overlap of some benefits, and insufficient
transparency of the system. Outreach for recipients who are enitled to benefits but don't know about
them must be improved. Too much time is spent on administrative tasks while strategic planning is
nonexistent. Much improvement can be obtained from introducing automation, strengthening policy
and evaluation capability, and implementing other organizational improvements.
4/   Cra, Iva. *Pauaw of Aduk Pautiipta in Laning Activt, Wo*w Edmio ad Tuin Poicis Puaje,
Nai=Wl Incu for Work and Leaning, WahingSt D.C., 1980.



-7-
1.19   Affordability and fiscal constraints. Ihe urgent need to reform the social protection system
must also confront fiscal realities. Romania will not be able to afford a universal social protecdon
system on the order of the French, German or Scandinavian systems. Even in these countries, fiscal
realities and labor market concerns are causing policymakers to rethink benefits and contributions
features that have long been taken for granted. Although Romania needs to move in the general
direction of the OECD systems, it must carefully review the broad spectrum of alternatives and
determine an appropriate and fiscally susainable reforms that would address immediate concerns and
start the evolution towards a viable, long-term system.
1.20 Specific issues to be addressed in the social lnsurance reform include: (a) too many funds -
there are currently at least ten funds, which are not financially viable, and impede labor mobility; (b)
improper benefit structure - in many cases, benefits are poorly related to contributions, and
discourage formal labor force participation; and (c) affordability - the tax burden from the earmarked
taxes which is too high, discouraging employment and encouraging evasion (e.g., non-payment by
small firms and the sef-employed) and a benefit structure, given long-term demographic trends,
which will be even less affordable in the future. Resources from the general budget are not likely to
be available, especially as the need for social assistance grows, implying that oveal expenditures will
have to be reduced as part of the benefit restructuring. A thorough reform of the social insurance
policy framework is essential, to be accomplished by measures to assist in its implementation through
automation of key acvities, such as contributions recordkeeping, and improvements in organizational
and financial management.
1.21  In social assistance reform, specific issues include: (a) too small and too narrow a focus -
Romania's system is oriented toward a small group of disabled or handicapped people and is not
prepared to help households lift themselves out of poverty; (b) confused legal framework - a flood of
laws and regulations have been issued in response to the imminent increae of the destitute and to
respond to pressure groups; these have simply added to the benefits existing from the Ceausescu
years, without priorities being established; (c) fragmentation of services throughout many agencies -
there is a large number of agencies involved in the delivery of social assistance, creating coordination
difficulties, spreading the benefits into small amounts, and producing inefficiency; (d) unused
entitlements and lack of community outreach - even for approved benefits many potential beneficiaries
are not receiving them for lack of a deliberate outreach effort towards those in need; (e) data
inadequacies - Romania is forced to design a system in a vacuum, as the lack of random sample
comprehensive household survey data leaves Romania with no way to analyze who are the
poor/disadvantaged, what are their needs, and how can these needs be met; and (f) shortage of skills
and institutional capacity - the shortage of trained social workers, social program managers, and
social scientists is an impediment to designing and implementing reform programs.
E.    Govemnment Sector Policies and Rationale for Bank Assistance
1.22 The Government is concerned about protecting the living standards of the population as the
transition proceeds, yet, at the same time, it recognizes the severe fiscal constraints that it faces. To
assist the Government in formulating a strategy for addressing these issues, the Bank undertook sector



work with the Government in late 1990, which culminated in a red cover sector report -'. This
report laid out the recommended policy reforms for all of the social sectors and provided the sectoral
strategy for a sequence of Bank operations to assist those sectors. The rationale underlying the sector
strategy is to focus, first, on the most basic services which are critical for the short- to medium-term
social safety net and, then, on those services that are essential for a sustainable transition to a market
economy. Although the standard public economics arguments, such as social externalities or capital
market failures, apply to the social sectors, the sector strategy recognizes that there still should be an
appropriate mix of private and public finance and provision of servces.
1.23 A Letter of Development Policy (LDP), signed jointly by the Ministers of State for Finance
and for Labor and Social Protection, was sent to the Bank in October 1993 (see Annex 3 for the text
of this letter). The LDP oudines the overall policy framework the Government intends to pursue with
regard to social safety net issues. In addition to the LDP, the MOLSP, as the Government's lead
agency in the provision of a social safety net, has completed two substantia White Papers, one on
social assistance and the other on social insurance. These White Papers, which spell out the
Government's specific reform program in these areas, were prepared during the past year with full
pardcipation of MOLSP top management and professional staff, announced in press conferences, and
then published for public discussion and comment prior to formulating legislation. The Socia
Assistance White Paper (see Annex 4 for an executive summary) introduces a new system of cash
benefits focused on those in deepest poverty and most likely to suffer economic hardships during the
trasition. The Social Insurance White Paper (see Annex S for an executive summary) focuses on
unifying the many different pension funds, raising the retirement age, introducing better financial
management of social insurance funds, and gradually developing a private pension system to
complement the public one. These white papers were well received and generated significant
attention in the press. Given the repressive policies of the Ceausescu regime, this open discussion
marks a significant change in Romanian social policy and has fostered strong Government ownership
of the social policy strategy being pursued.
1.24  In line with the sector stategy, the first project activity in the sector augmented the capacity
of the Government to set up a targeted social safety net by supporti  the itroduction of critical
programs (such as unemployment benefits) through the Employment Component of the Technical
Assistance and Critical Imports Project (TACI, Loan 3363-RO, FY91). The project would follow up
on these initial efforts of the TACI Project by supporting the implementation of far-reaching policy
reforms. A Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3409-RO, FY91) followed soon after the TACI
Project, aiming to address the serious crises in the public health system as a result of years of
underinvestment and mismanagement. In the area of education, the Education Reform Project (Loan
3724-RO, FY94) supports the reform of educational curricula, teacher training, textbook provision
(including competitive bidding by textbook firms), and improved management and financing of basic
education. In a parallel project, financing for a major component (prepared and appraised as an
integral component of this project) to reform provision of secondary and vocational training within the
formal education system is being provided by the European Union. Finally, development of private
universities and the reform of public universities and research institutes are the subject of a strategy
paper being prepared by the Government. A project to implement these reforms will be identified on
I/   See the red cover sector repost, Romnwia: Human Reourceo and the Tnsition to a Markt Econona (1992), for a
dailed anslyi of sector isues. The policy reform matrix in Chapter 1 of the repolt numarizeu the _ecoinmmdatiom for ell
of the aciso subectors.



-9-
the basis of the Bank's dialogue with the Government concerning this higher education and research
strategy paper. Together, these operations, as well as underlying sector work and policy dialogue and
development, constitute a coherent, if parsimonious, initial approach to overall sector reform in
Romania.
1.25   The Bank has now accumulated substantial social sector project experience in Romania, and a
number of lessons have been learned as result. Those lessons have been reflected in the design of the
project. First, the inexperience of project agency staff in procurement and disbursement practices of
the Bank requires extraordinary education and training efforts on the part of Bank staff to ensure an
adequate working inowledge in implementing agencies. Second, the generally weak public
administration capacity of the social sector ministries causes both preparation and implementation
problems. Third, the planning and budgeting methods of the Ministry of Finance and the sectoral
ministries have serious rigidities which need to be taken into account to ensure the tidmely flow of
local counterpart funds to project activities. To address these issues the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), currently under the TACI Project, will be expanded and more intensive training in
procurement and other aspects of implementation will be provided to PCU staff. In addition,
coordination between the MOF and the MOLSP has been fostered by insisting that the Government
financing plan for all activities supported by the project be prepared jointly by these two agencies to
ensure commitment and clear understanding of financing requirements.



-10-
H. THEPROQiCr
A.    Project Objectives
2.1   The project will support the Govennment's eflorts to alleviate unemployment and poverty,
improve the efficiency and affordability of employment and social protection services, and promote
labor productivity and economic competitiveness. The specific objectives of the project are to:
(a) strengthen the capacity of labor offices to administ increasing numbers of claims for
unemployment benefits and active labor adjustment services (e.g., job placement, employment
counseling, training); (b) develop a flexible adult training system which responds to evolving labor
market demand resulting from economic restructuring; and (c) implement reforms in social insurance
and assistance programs, targeting those population groups which are most vulnerable to falling into
poverty during and after the transition to a market economy.
B.    Project DescriRtioo
2.2   The project will be implemented over five years by the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection (MOLSP). Total project cost is estimated at US$95.2 million including contingencies, of
which US$81.6 million represents base cost. The project will finance civil works, equipment and
materials, vehicles, computer hardware and software, technical assistance, external and local training,
and incremental operating costs. It comprises three interrelated components structured as follows:
I.   General Management and Policy
A. Monitoring and Policy Analysis
B. Automation
C. Project Management
II.   Employment and Training
A. Employment Services
B. Career Information and Counseling
C. Adult Training
m.   Social Protection
A. Social Insurance
B. Social Assistance



-11-
Component I: General Manageument and Policy l
2.3    The overall objective of this component is to improve management, planning, execution, cost-
effectiveness, and evaluation of MOLSP social programs.
2.4    Monitoring and Policy Analysis (USS3.9 million). Under this subcomponent, the project will
support the development of a Management I#onnation System (MIS) to track and evaluate ongoing
programs and help refine new policies introduced under the project. Ihese evaluation procedures,
based upon the analysis of administratve data generated by the MIS, will be tested in at least two
judets, and then introduced in the other judets for evaluating, planning and budgeting for local
employment and social assistance programs. Guidelines for integrating data collection and evaluation
procedures into the MIS will be finalized, materials developed, and at least one labor office staff
person in each judet trained in Integrating these procedures into local operations.
2.5    An applied research and evaluation program will be developed under this subcomponent to
complement administrative data obtained from the MIS. This program will be based on special
household and establishment surveys necessary to obtain information on persons not currently
participating in MOLSP programs, thereby establishing appropriate control groups necessary to
evaluate overall program effectiveness. The concerned MOLSP departments will together decide
upon the aspects of program effectiveness to be investigated, plan and carry out the sample surveys
(the MOLSP will work with the National Statistical Commission, or with a private survey firm, to
execute the survey field work), and analyze and publish results. In addition to the special surveys, a
second round of Integrated Household Surveys (the first round is being conducted under the ongoing
TACI Project) will be carried out with a view to monitoring trends in nutrition status and other living
standards in the aggregate, as well as for the bottom deciles of the population.
2.6    Finally, a data collection system for occupational sqfety will be developed.-' In the past,
rather than directly addressing the real causes of unsafe work conditions, workers were paid extra
allowances and bonuses as incentives for taking up hazardous occupations. Workcplace accident
statistics were deliberately underreported, making it difficult to design appropriate program
interventions. The project will support improvements in the collection of occupational safety
statistics, including studies of ways to initiate low-cost interventions aiming to reduce accidents and
contribute to improved productivity. It is expected that some of these initiatives could then be
incorporated into the adult training programs under the Employment and Training Component
(described in paras. 2.14-2.34).
6/   Estimated project cot in this chptwr ae prvided wihout physical or price contingencies.
7/   MOLSP equesed a modea stast be undraen in this am, for which it hs responsibility, beeuse ocuponal afety
wu neglected under the prevow egime. See the gry cover envionent ctor repot, Roman E mit Sutr   Paper
(July 1992), for a set of  a oin th ares of oocuptional safety and hlth. Action No. 7 of the Acio Plan
(Chptr 7) in this rport wecnwnds to begin, by the ond of 1992, introduction and mrforeenut of occ_paonAl safety and
health tAndua..



-12-
2.7    In support of the above activities, the project will finance office equipment and computers for
the responsible MOLSP departments, technical assistance (79 months foreign, 106 months local), and
fellowships and training (55 months foreign and 224 months local). v
2.8    Automation (IbSS21.2 million). The automation subcomponet will help to improve the
overall management, planning, and execution of the MOLSP core responsibilities by sdectively
introducing automation of a number of activities, such as the contributions records system of social
insurance, and the unemployment benefit system. A long-term strategic plan comprising three phase
has been drafted by the MOLSP to serve as the framework for this undertaking. Phase I, involving
installation of PCs in the main labor and social  istance offices, is nearing completion; this phase
has been supported by the ongoing TACI Project. The subcomponent in the current project will
support Phase U, which aims to increase the availability and use of information technology through
the use of Local Area Networks (LANs), and mid-range computers for larger data bases. 2/
2.9    Also as a part of Phase I activities supported by the project, organizational changes to better
manage information technology will be implemented. An Information Resources Management
Directorate (RMD) will be established in the MOLSP to be responsible for managing, planning, and
coordinating automation activities. It will also provide general administrative support in the Ministry
for financial management, budgeting, planning, personnel, payroll, procurement, and property and
inventory management.
2.10   Specific activities to be supported under the automation subcomponent are:
(a)    refinement of the long-term strategic plan and short-term action plans to implement
strategic objectives; definition of functional requirements, specifications of hardware
and software for Phase II; coordination with end-users in other subcomponents of the
project; and procurement of equipment and services;
(b)    design and testing of software applications (e.g., for unemployment benefits, social
assistance benefits and pensions), and development and implementation of software
and user training; and
(c)    installation of computers and reated hardware, including the establishment of the
National Data Center equipped with a mainframe and, for the judets, mid-range
computers with a mix of terminals and PCs.
2.11   The project will finance, in addition to hardware and software requirements, incremental
operating costs, and the necessary rehabilitation of buildings to prepare them for hardware
installation. All of the 170 offices labor, social assistance and social insurance) of the MOLSP will
receive PCs; however, only the ten largest judet offices will receive large-capacity servers for the
    MI   TehiTal Astn  to wppoi al actsb in th fit submponet wol be arnged thugh oe mjor
packge for whih well known rerh ad aiuevatn  orSauzatam, with cesa to occation  Wfy expete, woud be
vitd to ibmit prposal.
2/   Phse m of th sratSic plan, which calls for a modem, fu11y  maed system including Wide Ar Nateit
(WANs), could be caried out s pat of a follow-up project, finAnced by the Bank, uan/or ome other donon, or wholly aut of
Ronunien roure.



-13-
local network. The project will also finance technical assistance (209 months foreign and 1,296
months local), and fellowships and training (93 months foreign and 1,228 local months local). For
efficiency purposes, most of the computer needs for the other project subcomponents have been
costed together under this subcomponent.
2.12 Project Management (USSl.4 million). This subcomponent seeks to increase the
implementation capability of the MOLSP in order to provide for efficient and effective coordination
and implementation of project activities. (Details on project implementation and the roles and
functions of each of the entities concerned are presented in paras. 3.8-3.18.) The project will finance
computer equipment for the PCU, technical assistance (57 months foreign, 36 months local), a well
as training (12 months foreign) in project management and procurement.
Component I: 1EnDLme  and Training
2.13   The overall objective of this component is to strengthen the capacity of the MOLSP to
administer unemployment benefits and pro-active labor programs, and to develop a flexible and
responsive adult training system.
2.14 Employment Services (USS18.8 million). Ibis subcomponent aims to improve the capacity of
the MOLSP's Employment Services to: (a) deliver income support to the unemployed through the
Unemployment Benefit (UB) system; (b) assist in the rapid redeployment of excess labor; and
(c) implement active labor programs to upgrade human capital. These objectives will be achieved
through three parallel activities: the first focusing on refining national administration and policy; the
second on development and delivery of services at local employment offices; and the third on
development of special procedures to deal with large-scale layoffs.
2.15   National Admrdstrtlon and Poicy. This first set of activities will review and revise the
national management structure of MOLSP's Employment Services and the ways in which labor
market policy is formulated and implemented. Special emphasis will be placed on improving:
(a) overall cost-effectiveness of employment service administration, including increased automation
with sufficient flexibility to adapt to future modifications in employment service programs;
(b) delivery of unemployment benefits (UB) in conjunction with Social Security and SocW Assistance;
(c) establishment of a national labor exchange; and (d) administration of active labor adjustment
programs. Revised Employment Services management structures will be defined and adopted, and
supporting legislation and regulations developed as necessary. In addition, taining will be provided
to national and local personnel in job counseling, job development, etc. With respect to labor market
policy, special studies (i.e., on labor mobility, women's employment, impact of restructuring on
employment) will be carried out to enable the MOLSP to refine its labor policy, including
implementing the results of the labor market policy evaluations in the first component (para. 2.5).
Based on the recommendations of these studies as well as experience gained, a plan will be developed
to refine selected elements of labor market policies for the period 1995 - 1998.
2.16   Local Labor Offices. The second set of activities under this subcomponent will support the
development of work plans and related staff training materials to: (a) strengthen the management
capacity of labor offices; (b) expand the labor exchange function to include active labor adjustment
measures; (c) implement refinements in the operation of the UB program, in part through increased
automation; (d) improve client intake, registration and job placement services; and (e) improve job
development programs by increasing job vacancy listings, utilizing qualitative and quantitative



-14-
medhods designed to detmine local, short-term (e.g., six-month) emploYmnt trends, and
d isseminating previoudy developed entrepr ip materials. At least one month of staff training
will be provided to a  i    y 5,000 loca labor office staff, with each staff mmber bing traied
in at least two of dte above technical areas ((a) trugh (e)).
2.17   lustria A4usfamat Seriea. Te third set of activities will support the development of in
Industrial Adjustnt Service (US) to faiitate labor market adjustment of lrge gups of workr
displaced by economic restucting. Ihe MOLSP, in cooperation with Natonal Traing Board to
be established under the project (see paras. 2.26-2.29), will selec the ot agency for the [AS core
workng team, comprised of about three to four full-time professionals. To support the core team,
about 16 stff field dalivery expert wil be ienified and rained in ma  layoff procede. The
LAS, with the support of tee expes, will organize orientaion saesis for concerned enterpris
and local labor office sff in judets where large-cale layoffs are nticia    focusng on ealy
intvention at the enterprise level. Prior to large-scale layoffs, joint employer-employee committe
will be established to formulate, with support from the core team and field delivery expet,
appriate plans for the affected enteprise including pouible financa asste  from the
enterprise's upervisiwg authoriy. The Natonal Training Board, as a tripartite steermg committee,
wil review LAS policies and procedures. Thee procedures as well   materials developed will firt
be tesat  in two sites, evaluated and refined, and applied to other cases of mas layoffs.
2.18   Under this subcomponet, the project will fmance vehicles, tecnica astance (64.5 months
foein 50 months local), and fellowships and training (62 months foreip and 5,275 months
local) !D. Computer ruirem       have boee costed under the automation  bcomponnt (paras. 2.8-
2.11). Incremental recurrent costs in the form of staff salaries, rouly equivalent to US$6.8 millio
(or 30 percent of the total estmated cost of thi subcomponet), will be required in order to increase
the mnber of labor office staff nesary to maintain a minimal client:staff ratio during a period of
rapidly rising uemploymet These unoidable incremeal costs, finced by dte Government, are
about the same a the current overall MOLSP ulary budget (see para. 3.4 for a thorough discusion
of recurrent cost implications).
2.19                     , the Government provided asurances that it will ensure that all essental
staff required for the carying out of the Project shall be appointed by June 30, 1995 and it is
expected dtat the Government would i) designate at least seven full-time staff (from the Employment
Departm   of MOLSP or the Research Instite for Labor and Social Protection) to be reponible
for the unplementatou of the employment servi   cowmponent, and ii) identify, in cooperation with
the NTB, the host agency for the IAS and appoint the core working team.
2.20                     nling (USS62 million). The objective of this ubcompot is
to develop high qualty carer i maon ad counsding m rils and procedures, in order to help
improve human resource alocaon, labor force mobflity and productiviy, and thereby the cost-
effctvene  of employment, educaton and trining programs. A Career Information and Counsding
Working Group (CICWG) will be eblishd under the project with represation from the myor
,9  m U.S. Omm     ma_i a_eg m ap.    wkh MOLS? w pov puaUhI burteaA.upmimg fOup  50
mauls of do  niSp k ohiou a _mu md 53 morDi of do hesip hDlwmbips in am  aut do NW=d A  *
and Poaly and Load Labor Offma mbsarnqmmu.b Tii. Wima   of .1m. 1tl bIWUIm oemr. ha". bm aa.iri
uV pad ad -     w4h bMOL?  d the hm



-15-
interest groups who are producrs and consumas of career information, namey  the Minstes of
Labor and Social Protecdon, Education, and Youth and Sports (se Annex 6 for the protocol signed
by these partes). Ihis group will be staffed by up to ten full-time professionals located in facilities
provided by the Insttute for Educational Sciences (IES) under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Education.
2.21   'he CaCWG will be supported by a Carer Information and Counseling Advisory Group
(CaCAG) comprised of carefully sdected eWts from government, busins nd industry, lbor and
user groups. The adviory group will help to ensre that career information and counseng matials
acately reflect curemt ad projected labor force realities. It is enviuaged that these materials wi1l
eventually be ued in thousands of sites (all labor offices, al educational and training instions -
public and prive, and diverse other setg, including homes), and influence the career decions of
hundreds of housands of people each year.
2.22   The project will finance equipment and materials, computers, tehical assitance !/
(including 156 months local and 13 months foreign), as well as training (14 months local and 31
months foreign) for the CICWG to: (a) review career information and counsding strategies in other
countis; (b) develop a detailed plan for career information and counsding in Romania; (c) develop,
test and implement career information and counsding products and procedurs; and (d) develop both
short-term (up to one week) and long-term training progrms and materials. The computer, which
will be insalled in both scondary schools (500 computers with special software) and labor office
(00 computers with special software), have been costed under the automation ubcomponent
2.23                      the Government confirmed that a protocol, acceptable to the Bank,
which clearly desribes the commitment of the MOLSP and the Ministry of Education to effective
collaboration to achieve the goals of the CIC subcomponent, had been siged by both Minities. The
Government also provided asunces that it will ensure that all  ential staff required for the
carrying out of the Project shall be appointed by June 30, 1995 and it is expected that the
Government would assign, in coopetn with the other agencies sining the CC Protcol, ten fiu-
time professional staff, in addition to sufficient support staff to ensure development and ongoing
implementation of the CIC in Romania.
2.24                (USS21  l .  Te objective of thi. subcomponent is to redirect and
upgrade the skills of the labor force, thereby reducing structural unemployment, enhancing entrrise
productivity, and improving intemational competitivenes. Specifically, thi  ubcompon  see  to:
(a)    expand adult training oppornitis for the unemployed, employed workers who need
to change or upgrde their skills, nd firsttime job entrmas (including recent school
leavers)f;
/ Ti Cmdimi Ckvuimuw .omuhd an agswu with MOLSP to piovie plbl oofu ig for up to 13
Man" of iatombl OOcMWAN end 63 mwdonD  of fhsimp fuilowshipas n swort of thi aoivit. The i of I
of do biltu *Sa   hoo bm Jah* devlope .d agmed with MOLIP ndo te }
IV   Ms aduk buimu ealiviia empaeymn  the nfiwm of uuowday4ev. vocetiom burnig develope &W%h do
pzupn_e of the E   dtmn PXse (FY9; Staff App _Raput 11931RO). Thu. ao&Wn will be   i i A
with hilmaSal  findi5 ha the C  _An of i  umapa Un a psalM wth the Bdaoor Riam MpaL
HIhl spesiae tfig at Q m assoy level  w .o.uad by XA MOB, wil be amphad wia    tosm1 ums



-16-
(b)    meet the taning needs of entapris, with a pririty and focus on privae sall- nd
medium-scle   eprises which may have difficulty in provi    training internally,
s* tey atempt to start-p and adapt their opeatons; and
(c)   resucture the governance and adminion of the adult train   system at the
naional and local loves, by shifting primary responsibility away from governm    to
employers and worke  to make it a deman driven sysm
2.25   Given *e past distrto  in the Romanian economy and taning system, achieving thse
objectv  will require funamenta institutional and policy chane in the adult training system a
woll a sustn    and carefully designed investmet to modemize taing policy and adm
Under this  wbcmnent, a Natonal Trainig Board WMB) and related County Traini  Boad
(CIB) wUI be oeablie wih the aim of fostering developmt of training services based upon labor
market damands as opposed to the highly centralized and supply driven approach followed in the past.
This now approach will result in two major cnceptul changes for adult :t : the firt in
govenance of the adult taining system (paw. 2.26-2.29); and the second in content and delivery of
aiting programs (paras. 2.30-2.33).
2.26    N       T        Board an) nd         T       Boards (CT_. Mmhe role of the Nlf
wfll be to establish natonal policy and provide leadership in the devdopmen of the adult train,
including the establish    of mini=mu  criteria for financing training programs. Th CTBs will have
the respoibility for taking the lead role in establishWing Regional Adult Traing Centers (RATCs,
see par. 2.30 and 2.31) and serving as the governing body of RATCs when they are established.
They will also have an ongoing advisory funtion with respect to the local labor offices rdeie to the
type of competitive contract taining they shoul estblish for the unemployed. The Boads wi
opera  on the basis of crita and procedur  agre with the B . Th main criteia for selecting
proposals from instuons will emphasize: (i) systematic evidence of strong demand for the trn
program  proposed, such as surveys of stude, unemployed workers and firms, (i) a prior Lck
record of succof  traing and job placemaet, and (lii) technical quality of the proposl and the
capability of the institution to implement it. Annex 8 describes these criteria in more dtil, and the
Project Opeatng Manual (POM) contains procedures for institutions to be selected for support under
th Project*
2.27  The NTB and CTBs will have a tiartte sure in which each of the socal p      -
employe, labor and governmt - has an equal voice.  his sructure will Inducd repr  ves
rom the most direty concen  govermt -agec   (MOISP, MOE, MOI and MOP), priva  and
public employer (small and lage), and trado unio  (soe the NTB Protocol in Annex 7), nd will
seek to nsill coopeaton among all sakebolders in formulatig a decentralized and demand-driven
approch to adult training. This tripartite structure follows from the Govenment's overall tripa
policy of working closdy with employers and workers m formulating labor market policy.
mm  g.in      l e&ws1im  Mm &*ak VoWng _bomM   of atnt p Ve. pnmjt wi pwvidl quuiad bum_t hw
sha wm im          , ha m *     u   hia        e  o      o b d    U      i  oo q_
IV Mm Ntmm Thhiq Dod(?3),wit mad Owagh it aff ad undw its Ahr" t hnudi &&k u bm6ag paiy
md o-  wMil be db. body ueqmowm r adouhag d  m.om     _ wkhWa t  ^hou  klaws of Ru  mad mhw do
ovg        af U *MOLP.



-17-
2.28 The NTB will support adult training programs for workers that rely upon two modes of
delivery: (i) programs offered by newly established Regional Adult Training Centers (RATCs) (see
below); and (ii) contract training provided by private and public institutions slected competitively on
a program-by-program basis. In order to encourage flexibility and relevance in the provision of adult
training, all NTB-suprted programs will meet the folowing criteria: evdence of labor market
demand; agreement to serve the needs of a varied clientele (e.g., out of school youth, employed and
unmployed adults); minimm service delivery criteria for training programs (e.g. flexible entry/exit
programs); and fincing criteria (e.g., normative funding based on number of full-ime equivalent
trainees). In addition, to be eligible for NTB support, RATCs will have to agree to provide m
support services (e.g., intake counseling, general and vocational skills, custom training for
enterprises, small enterprise training, and placemnt services); and meet other minimum criteria to be
selected as a developmental site. Unemployed workers, after receiving career information and job
search assistance, will thus be able to choose among a range of training services supplied by both
private and public institutions, thereby expressing effiective demand for the type of training which best
helps them in the labor market.
2.29   Financing of adult training will be based on the following principles: All project investment
resources allocated for local insdtutions/sites, individual adult training programs wiUl be controlled by
the NTB and disbursed according to criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank. Recurrent coss
for the small contingent of NTB staff will be covered from the budget. Recurrent costs (i.e., unit
costs of training) will be financed from multiple sources which will vary depending on the instittion
providing the service and client group services. Budget resources will finance training the long-term
unemployed or school leavers for which there is public good justification. Budget resources will aso
be used to pardally offset the costs of retraining employed workers in recognition that this is an
investment in human capital with positive social externalities. Fees or user charges paid by employed
individuals and firms, will be used to offset all or a major part (i.e., 50 percent) of the costs of
training employed workers at all institutions (e.g., RATCs and individual adult training programs).
2.30   Reioa A    Training Centers (RATC). On the basis of proposals submitted by CTBs to
the NTB, RATCs wiUl be established to provide comprehensive, community-based training services
that are responsive to local labor market needs. The project will support the establishment of three
RATCs. RATCs proposals must be from local authorities and indicate that: (a) the RATC will be an
independent agency; (b) it will be under the authority of a tripartite Regional ocal) Training Board
composed of rqresentatives of Employers, Workers and Government with each group having equal
voice; and (c) it will be independent of national government agencies but operated in accord with
policies of the National Training Board and applicable laws. In order to ensure that the training needs
of the emerging private sector are adequately represented, the private sector share of the employers'
representation on the CTBs wil be at minimum 50 percent except in those few instances where local
private sector development and representation are embryonic. Furthermore, a subcommittee of the
CTBs will be formed to determine the specific skills for which training will be supported by the
CTBs. To ensure adequate private sector representation in deermining skill needs, at least 75 percen
of the membership of this committee will be from the private sector. Three similar training centers
have already been established in Romania as independent local agencies with German bilateral
assistance and are operating successfully. The RATC will be st up in existn fcilities idntified by
each community - sometimes including using the physical facilities of firmer vocational secondary
schools in accord with legal provisions for transfer and use of such property - and will provide sbort-
and medium-term occupational training reflecting actual labor market needs for both the omployed
and unemployed. The centers, each having a capacity of 2,000 traines anually, will serve both



-18-
hdiduals from a wide range of educational and occupaional backgrounds, as well as firms, in
paricular emerging small- and medium-sized enterprises which need acces to taining for dhir
wodrkrs. (See part A of Annex SA for more details on the operations of RATCs.)
2.31   Ibe project will upport the desip and startup of RATC progms, including:
(a) dm ini ve prcedur  for peson   and staffg, program operaton, public rdato, and
financing; (b) voc l profies (up to 20 for each RATC), modularainng curriculum. materials
specifica s for read equipment and materials; (c) counseling and placmen programs (being
developed under the CC wboomponent); (d) up to fur general education progms (e.g., math,
physics, c    iscations, forip languages); (e) cutomized mquickstart  nterprinse training;
(0 e             trning; and (g) facility conversion. Approximately one month of pedagogical
traig wil be provided to all RATC instuctors (who will mnmber aroximately 90).
2.32                       i                       . The NTB in conjunction with the
CTBs, acdng u the local advisory and policy-body on labor market needs, will - on the bais of
competitive proposals for contracts to deliver tining - selet those private or public instui
eligible for support of development costs of training programs (see para. 2.30). To be eligible, theme
institutions, like the RATCs, will also have to be willing and able to provide market-orentd traing
on a comvettive basis, according to crite  and procedures defined by the NTB and agreed with the
Bank (swe Part B of Annex 8A). This mode of channeling support is intended to simulate the most
desrvig institutions which are able to provide specialized and responsive services. About 46
training programs will be supported with a total capacity of about 2,000 trainees annually.
2.33 In support of the adult training programs decribed above, the project will provide for the
renovation of facilities, tedhnical assistance (277 months foreign ad 167 months local), taiing (131
months foreign), a wel as significant amounts of equipment and materials for traing programs. w
2.34                     the Government confirmed that a protocol fDr the NTB, accwptable to
the Bank, had been signed by the soci partners, the NTB has been formally established, the NTB
Director hired, a financing plan for the NTB completed and forwarded to the Bank, and Bank
financig for the NTB programs will follow criteria acceptable to the Bank (which could be am_ed
by mutual agreemen of the Bank and the Government).
Component m: S
2.35   The objective of this componet is to implement reforms that will help resore financial
viability to the social insurance system and target social assistance to those most in need.
M/Cl ouina sa bg w=ad b. p  W ids hr kiuimmoain to.oa  amiftm md  maskn abmd in maflc at *e MMIU
Taisi $mmp fisammiug d.w is a indasm cf G.m Wbil inmd .wmtuib .odibhbdw don thus wag *"=. iaunuy
oPs_g (s p. 2.3.-       . aOmot f i mig w    abo  gMa ob Cknoamdn Gy nsda ps iadP (Am 6-7, 1994) he
two addhm1 RATC md M mna Tiuinyg P      . Athough ouimtiS for *_us addkkmi  -  ami a be
azimap by di. dim of Negalsiaio, MOLIP wil coWimas vA& Buak sauimno, to awk huminaog for dam a m. Am  *
for a daaulhd dmuoidos.



-19-
2.36 Social Insurance (EJSS3.8 million). This subcomponent aims to develop a financially viable,
contributions-based socil srance system to protect contributors and their families firom complete
los of income due to old age, diability, illness or death. Project acvities are speficaly desned
to support the implementation of reforms proposed in the Social Insurmce Whke Pa  (soe pam.
1.23), and the required f atal improvements   program admini     These reforms
include: (i) policy reform focusing on unifying the currently frmnted pension fiun;
(ii) improvg the administve stre  of the pensions agency; (iii) impoving the finncial
organization and management of the pensions system; (iv) impvg the contition collections
record system; (v) improving payment procedures; (vi) conducting a feasibility study on the
development of privas pensions; (vii) improving aurial forecas; and (viii) drmining
requirements for modenizing the computer system to support these reforms. To comlement the
public pension system, MOLSP will also develop a program for encoura    voluntary or smi-
voluntary social insurance programs in the private sector. Implementation of each of these reforms is
supported under the project.
2.37   As a codition of ibiaumment on the social insurance subcomponent, the Government
agreed that withdrawals shall be subject to the enactment of a Social Insurance law, reflectn the
principles set forth in the Social Insurance White Paper (previously finalized by the Government and
agreed with the Bank), and the completion of the implementing arrangements for the law.
2.38  Improwd d Ainiou    will be supported by restructuring the social insurance organizaton.
The MOLSP hb  undertaken a review of the current structure with a view to developing alternaive
for Romania, in light of its preent government structure and level of development, as well as the
proposed policy chnges. The results of this review have been incorporated into the White Paper.
MOLSP will appoint a working group to prepare the structure and reguations of the social ince
organization. Staffing requirements and position desrpions (including functions and qualificatns)
will be prepared, staff appointed, staff training needs identified, and training insution sedected.
2.39  Implementation of key elements of the policy reform wil be supported by th. developmet of
a new cectral coauidiois record-keepiag system under the project. This new system wiUl help
ensure that benefits be based on actual contributions from eanings, and am merely on length of dme
served at worl. Claims processing will also be improved through a review of options with respect to
the respective roles of the MOLSP and MOF in monitoring collections and payments, and ulditing
enterprises and ensuring compliance. MOLSP will desip insumt for information collection and
test these with firms. Protocols will be developed for firms to submit data in machine readable
formats, leading to the introduction of new contribubon recording system, including developing
reguations, training materials and programs for firm accountants, etc.
2.40  Improvement infiauhal nauagemeat efjlmds wil also be supported under the project by:
(a) reviewig the financil accontig ad maementinrmaton systm  in light of neds of a
unified system; (b) designin a new system; and (c) developing an implemntaon shodule for the
new system, includin sff training. This implemion schedule wil be harmonized with the
automation component once decisions have been made on monitoring contibuton/bnefits paymen
and the structure of the scia insurance organization. A review of short-term cash management
procedures wil be conducted, including recommended messures, such s legal changes and external
trainin, to improve thee procedurs. FinaUy, a review of strategic financial manageme  funto
wil be conducted, including    mmndations for improvenat, legal changes noeded and exteal



-20-
2.41   To improve bexeft          , a review of current benefit disxuemn procedures will
be carmied out, including functions and staffing of local and central offices in light of the proposed
unified structure and emaging market economy. It is expected that this review will lead to the
identification of redundant functions and development of a st of options for a new benefit
disbursement system. Consideration will be given to options for consolidatin all cash benefit
disbursement functons (social insmrance, social assistance, and unemployment insurance), as wel as
intermediate solutions. Cost implications of option will be specifically idendfied and progrms
developed, including necesary legal or organizaional changes.
2.42   The project will fiance technical asistance (120 months foreign, 327 months local), as well
as fellowships and training (74 months foreign, 137 months local). Most of the computer
requirements will be met under the automation subcomponent.
2.43   Social Assistance (USS5.3 million). The objective of this subcomponent is to implement the
new cash benefits law and resolve a number of problems that presently hamper efficient delivery of
social assistance, including: too many untargeted benefits, fragmentation of services among many
agencies, management and operational problems, lack of socioeconomic data and evaluation, reduced
coverage and unmet needs of entitled benefits, mixed funding of benefits from central and local
budgets resulting in unclear assignment of responsibility, and lack of policy-malking capability. To
address these issues, three main areas will be supported under the project.
2.44  The poUcy refonn required to consolidate the current fragmented system and change the focus
from vulnerable individuals to households with insufficient income will be supported in three ways:
(i) based upon reforms recommended in the Social Assistance White Paper (see para 1.23), which was
reviewed by the Bank during the July 1993 appraisal mission, a new system will be proposed that is
consistent with the new economic and polidcal environment, and takes into consideration the issues
raised above; (ii) the replacement of the existng, fragmented legislation by an integrated law on
social assistance; and (iii) organizational reform in the MOLSP that reflecs the changes needed to
implement the new legislation.
2.45   As a conditon of dwisuEmen on the social assistance subcomponent, the Government
agreed that withdrawals shal be subject to the enactment of a Social Assistance law, reflecting the
principles set forth in the Social Assistance White Paper (previously finalized by the Govermt and
agreed with the Bank), and the completion of the implementing arrangements for the law.
2.46  Improved twgenAg and  eliaon of servica will be supported through the elaboration
of regulations governing the actual implementation of the cash benefit program. Improvements will
be made in the social inquiry, which is based upon home visits by social workers for households
needing pro-active social work. Decentralization of activities will be achieved through alterative
means of delivering some services, e.g., by NOs and community groups. Closer links will be
forged between MOLSP, Local Councils, NGOs and local community groups to increase their
awareness of social assistance and its importance, and to encourage their participation in information
exchange within the community.
2.47   Service dduvey will also be stngthened under this subcomponent by increasing the
efficiency of claims processing through automation and the introduction of standardized forms. lle
staff of the Directorate of Social Assistance will participate in the preparation of the functional



-21-
spcifications for the social  ssanc part of the MIS to be developed und  the Monitoring and
Policy Analysi    c        (pras. 2.4 - 2.7). The management and organizaton of the social
assistae offices will be restuctured to take hill advantage of automation reqiring a comprebedsi
trini  progrm for staff including area such as managem   ting, skills training, md  _stomr
service trning.
2.48   Technical assistance will be provided under this subcompo  for: (i the review and rdem
of the o izaIon  str     e of MOLSP ad ts socil workcr netwodr (I) review of the policy ad
iinplenntatia of benefts for the hadicapped; (iii) imple    of thoe rem, includg to
design of nw  prprint  forms and the publicity      for the new social assistane schem
(tv) a feasibility study into           o' initiatives for deiring socia assistce
services; (v) the devekpnt of an  five o tional structure and work flow pate, th
nocosary procedures to prevent fraud, a system of performance evaluation, and a training prom  0
for all staff; and (vi) the administrative evaluation of the system.
2.49   The project wfll fiance for the DSA equipment and materials, tehical assistance (46 months
foreign, 7 months local), as well as fellowships and training (equivalent to 12 months forein and
about 1,270 months local). Incremental cost increaes in the form of salaries for supplemental socal
assistance staff (etmated at USS2.0 million) will be required to maintain a minimal clit-stff rio
during the period when more families will need social assistance. Ihese costs will be financed by the
Government. Most of the computer requirements will be met in the automation subcomponet



-22-
mIL PROJECT com. LANCING AND
A.     Proiect Cost
3.1    S      Cof the  rect Co. Total project cmt is estimaed at US$95.2 millon, including
contingencis amounting to US$13.7 million or 17 percent of the total bau  cost of US$81.6 million.
The project cost includes rdeabilitation of existing facilities, constuction of new labor offices,
frniture, equpmet and materials, vhicles,  mputar hrdware and software, technical  sistance,
trmining, and incremental operating cost of mvestme. Taxes and duties included in total project
cost amount to US$8.7 million. The estimated project cost, detailed in Annex 9, are summarized
below:
Table 3.1: PROJECT SURY BY PROJECT C
X     Total
(Lei Nillion)               (US Nillion)           Foreign  aSe
Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total    Exchnge Costs
A. Gnrerl Polcy & Manwagmsnt
1 Monitoring & Policy Antlyefi    1,369.2  5,345.8  6,715.0      0.8      3.1       3.9     80.0       5.0
2. Automation                   11,949.2  24,663.9 36,613.1      6.9      14.3     21.2     67.0      26.0
3. Project Manwapmmnt              663.0  1,681.9  2,345.0       0.4       1.0      1.4     72.0       2.0
Subtotat                         13,961.4 31,691.6 45,673.0       8.1      18.4     26.5     69.0      32.0
B. Employment & Training
1. E ploynmnt Services          22,323.1  10,056.8 32,379.9     12.9      5.8      18.8     31.0      23.0
2. Couneling                     4,732.3  6,047.7 10,780.0       2.7      3.5       6.2     56.0       8.0
3. Adult Training               11,246.3 25,142.6 36,389.0       6.5      14.6     21.1     69.0      26.0
Subtotal                         38,301.7 41,247.1  79,548.8     22.2     23.9      4.1      52.0      57.0
C. Social Protection
1. Social Insurance              1,323.5  5,156.8  6,480.3       0.8      3.0       3.8     80.0       5.0
2. Social Assistance             4,906.6  4,165.8  9,072.4       2.8      2.4       5.3     46.0       6.0
Subtotal                          6,230.1  9,322.6  15,5S2.7      3.6      5.4       9.0     60.0      11.0
TOTAL SASELING COSTS            58,513.2  82,261.4 140,774.5    33.9     47.7      81.6     58.0    100.0
Physical Contingencis            5,552.5  7,311.3  12,863.8      3.2      4.2       7.5     57.0       9.0
Price Contingencies              5,268.8  5,397.0  10,665.7      3.1      3.1       6.2     51.0       8.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             69,334.5  94,969.6 164,304.1    40.2      55.1     95.2     58.0    117.0
*/ Figures my not total xactly due to roding.
3.2    Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs have been estimated on the following basis:
(a) Bae Costs. All project costs have been estimated in US dollars because of
uncertinties about the market value of the Leu. Cost shown in Lei are the result of
converting dollar estimates at the rate of 1725 Li/US$1.00 (September 1994).
Technical assistance costs (about 20 percent of tot  base coats) are based on recent
cost estimates for comparable technica assistance in other Bank-financed projects in
Romania, i.e., consultants recruited from abroad, US$15,000 per month; and



-23-
Table 3.2: pROJECT SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDlTURE
x          x
(Lei Million)                      (1CUS Mllion)           Foreign     Total
Local   Foreign    Total        Local      Foreign    Total  Exchange    Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS                      10,397.4   5,598.6  15,995.9         6.0        3.2       9.3       35.0       11.0
B. EQUIPMENT
Vehicles                              224.3      897.0   1,121.3        0.1        0.5       0.7       80.0       1.0
Corputers                           3,390.6  13,562.3  16,952.9         2.0       7.9        9.8       80.0      12.0
Equipment/Naterials                 4,140.0  27,945.0  32,085.0         2.4       16.2      18.6      80.0       27.0
Subtotal                             7,762.5  42,435.0  50,197.5         4.5      24.6       29.1      80.0       39.0
C. CONSULTAMTS
Experts from abroad                 4,534.2  18,136.7  22,670.8         2.6      10.5       13.1      80.0       16.0
Experts, local                      1,442.0      160.2   1,602.2        0.8       0.1        0.9       10.0       1.0
Subtotal                             5,976.1  18,296.9  24,273.0         3.5      10.6       14.1      75.0       17.0
0. TRAINING
Local                               3,120.2      780.0   3,900.2        1.8       0.5        2.3      20.0        3.0
Abroad                                  0.0   5,930.6   5,930.6         0.0       3.4        3.4      100.0       4.0
Subtotat                             3,120.2   6,710.6   9,830.7         1.8       3.9        5.7       68.0       7.0
Total Investmnt Costs                27,255.0  72,967.5 100,222.5        15.8      42.3       58.1       71.0     7h.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Local staff                        21,845.7        0.0  21,845.7       12.7       0.0       12.7        0.0      16.0
Suwpples                            7,935.0   5,175.0  13,110.0         4.6       3.0        7.6      40.0        5.0
Vehiclo m_intennce                     120.9     181.3     302.2        0.1        0.1       0.2       60.0       0.0
Equipment Maintenance               1,333.4   4,000.3   5,333.7         0.8        2.3       3.1       75.0       4.0
TotaL Recurrent Costs                31,235.0   9,356.0  40,591.0        18.2        5.4      23.5      21.0      25.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                 58,513.2  82,261.4 140,774.5        33.9      47.7       81.6       58.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies               5,552.5   7,311.3  12,863.8         3.2       4.2        7.5       57.0       9.0
Price Contingencies                  5,268.8   5,397.0  10,665.7         3.1       3.1        6.2       51.0       8.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  69,334.5  94,969.6 164,304.1        40.2       55.1      95.2       58.0     117.0
A/      Additional required staff poid for by the Governnent to provide a staff:client ratio of 1:250 for
1.2 million unhmployed.
Office supplies, other consuebles for project implemmntation and management.
1      Petrol, mnintenanre.
consultants recruited locally, US$400 per month. Monthly estimates for external and
local trining are US$6,000 and US$160, respectively. Price estimates for
consumable and durable goods are based on lists of requirements prepared for each
project component. Building refurbishment and furniture costs are based on the
estimates obtained from local officials.
(b) Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance for
unforeseen physical variations (US$7.5 million), equal to 5 percent of the estmated
base cost for technical assistance and training, and 10 percent for all other project
items. Estmated price contingencies total US$6.2 million. In the absence of
forecasts for anmual local price escalation and exchange rates, price increases have
been applied to both local and foreign costs in US dollar terms at the following rates:
1994 - 1.2%; 1995 - 2.4%; 1996 - 3.2%; and 1997 - 3.4%; 1998 - 3.2%; and 1999 -
3.3%.



-24-
(c) ForeigM Exchge Comonen. The foreign exchange component was estimated as
follows: (i) civil works - 35 percent; (ii) equipment and materials, vehicles and
computers - 80 percent; (iii) experts from abroad - 80 percent; (iv) experts recruited
locally - 10 percent; (v) fellowships abroad - 100 percent; and (vi) local training -
20 percent. Induding contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$55.1 million, or about 58 percent of total project cost including
taxes.
(d) Customs Duties and Taxes. A Value Added Tax (VAT) of 18 percent was introduced
in July 1993. This tax has been applied to all goods fianced under the project, as has
a 5 percent customs duty. Total taxes and duties included in the project cost amount
to US$8.7 million. Payment of taxes and duties will be assured by the Government
through the budget approved for the MOLSP.
3.3       Re      t Costs. Project cost estimates include only incremental operating costs of the
investment. Appraisal estimates indicate that total incremental operating costs during the Project will
be about US$20.4 million, of which US$12.7 million for local staff salaries, and the remainder for
supplies and other expenses related to project management (e.g., vehicle and equipment maintenance)
incurred during implementation. The Government will finance all incremental recurrent costs, with
the exception of those for supplies, which will be financed under the Bank loan (estimated US$7.6
million).
3.4      Implementing the policy and program reforms required to establish the social safety net
under this project will entail significant incremental recurrent expenditures. These expenditures will
cover additional required staff (included in the project costs) to deliver the employment and social
asstce services to support dislocated workers and families. Table 3.3 below gives a more detailed
cross-tabulation of expenditure categories for each component. As shown there, the recurrent costs
for local staff salaries in the Employment Services Component and, to a lesser degree, incremental
staffing in several other components, are the main sources of the essential incremental recurrent costs.
The required staffing of the Employment Services is estimated to increase from 2,000 to 6,000 by the
end of the project in order to reduce the client:staff ratio from over 650:1 to 250:1 (considered to be
a barely acceptable level) during a time of rising unemployment. After the completion of the project,
when unemployment settles down to more normal levels, then the Employment Services will have an
adequate staffing ratio of about 125:1.
3.5       The budgetary costs of the social insurance and assistance benefit payments are not
included in project costs since these are neither investment nor recurrent costs, but represent transfer
payments for social protection. Detailed actuarial projections and analysis of the proposed social
insurance reforms were carried out during preparation of the Social Insurance White Paper by the
MOLSP and the Harvard Institute for International Development (HUID). The results of these
projections and analysis show that the State Insurance Fund (SIF) will remain in balance, or at a
slight surplus, as a result of reforms to increase the retirement age, thereby: (i) reducing the number
of beneficiaries from 3.2 million in 1995 to 2.7 million by 2010, and (ii) increasing the number of
contbutors from 6.5 million to 7.6 million over the same time period. The ratio of beneficiaries to
contnutors (dependency ratio) will decline significantly from 0.49 in 1995 to 0.36 in 2010. With
the SIF remaining in balance or at a slight surplus, it will not be necessary to cover the SIF
expenditures from the State budget. However, the public budget will be the source of financing for
new cash benefits targeting households in deepest poverty. The reforms will limit the eligibility
criteria and the level of benefits so that the total cash benefits programs amount to less than one
percent of GDP. Thus the social insurance and assistance transfer payments will not constitute an
undue fiscal burden.



-25-
3.6         The incremental staffing costs of the project will average about US$2.1 milion per year
over the life of the project (approximady the same as the staff costs of the MOLSP in 1992).
However, this amount represents only about 1.8 percent of the transfer budget, such as unemployment
benefits and pensions payments, which will be administered by these staff. The Government has
agreed with the Bank and the Fund to reduce budget subsidies in other areas, which in turn will make
the incremental recurrent costs of this project sustainable. In addition, cost recovery in the form of
antaprises paying a share of the trainng cost for their workers will also enhance sustainabiity.
Table 3.3: EXPND71URE ACCOUNTS BY COMIPONENTS
(US$million)
1. GCral Policy I  oaament
Monitoring                      11. EmDlonwent & Trainifr         111  Social Protection
B Policy            Project  Ewpltoyunt                Acklt    Social   Social
Analysis Autr_tion  Nage_ment Services  Coun.seLing   Training In ur ne Assistane  Total
1 Investmnt Costs
A  CIVIL WORKS                       0.0       0.0         0.0       7.2          0.0       1.8      0o0        0.2      9.3
B. EWIPIIENT
Vehiclos                            0.0       0.0         0.0       0.6          0.0       0.1       0.0       0.0      0.7
Computers                           0.1       9.5         0.0       0.1          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      9.S
EquipentIabterilts                  2.1       0.5         0.1       1.5          3.4       S.7       1.1       2.0    21.7
Subtotal                             2.2      10.0         0.1       2.4          3.4      10.8       1.1       2.0    32.2
C. CONSULTANTS
Experts from abroad                 1.2       3.1         0.9       1.0          0.2       4.0       2.1       0.7    13.1
Experts, local                      0.0       0.6         0.0       0.0          0.0       0.1       0.1       0.0      0.9
Sutotat                              1.2       3.7         0.9       1.0          0.2       4.1       2.2       0.7    14.1
D. TRAINING
LocaL                               0.0       0.2         0.0       0.8          0.9       0.0       0.0       0.2      2.3
Abroad                              0.3       0.6         0.1       0.4          0.4       1.2       0.4       0.1      3.4
Subtotal                             0.4       0.8         0.1       1.2          1.3       1.2       0.5       0.3      5.7
Total Inve tmnt Coats                 3.8      14.6         1.1      11.8          5.0      17.9       3.8       3.3    61.2
=1. Recurrent Costs
A. INCREXENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Local staff                         0.0       1.7         0.1       6.8          1.2       1.0       0.0       2.0    12.7
SUi @ties                           0.1       1.9         0.2       0.1          0.1       5.3       0.0       0.0      7.6
Vehicle maintenane                  0.0       0.0         0.0       0.1          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.2
Equiplnt Maintenane                 0.0       3.1         0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      3.1
TotaL Recurrent Coats                 0.1       6.7         0.2       7.0          1.3       3.2       0.0       2.0    20.4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                  3.9      21.2         1.4      18.8          6.2      21.1       3.8       5.3    81.6
Physical Contingncies                0.3       1.9         0.1       1.8          0.6       1.9       0.3       0.5      7.5
Price Continemncies
Inflation
Locat                              0.0       0.5         0.0       1.4          0.4       0.5       0.0       0.2      3.1
Foreign                            0.1       0.9         0.0       0.5          0.4       1.0       0.1       0.1      3.1
SubitotaL Inflation                 0.2        1.4        0.1       1.9          0.7       1.5       0.1       0.3      6.2
Devaluation                         0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Subtotal Price Contingencies         0.2       1.4         0.1       1.9          0.7       1.5       0.1       0.3      6.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   4.4      24.5         1.5      22.5          7.6      24.5       4.1       6.0    95.2
Taxes                                0.5       2.1         0.0       2.1          0.3       2.7       0.2       0.S      3.7
Foreign Exchange                     3.5      16.5         1.1       6.9          4.2      16.9       3.3       2.7    55.1
I/  The bose cost of tho automation componnt uill be distributed as follows: Exploamnt USS15.2 million, Scial Assistarce USS1.9
million, and Socialt Insurance US#4.1 million. CortaIn overhed costs common to all coponents, estimted at about USS2.0 miLlion,
could not be oasily assinewd wd are incLuded in the Eployment Coponent. See Airex 9. Table  2.3  rd 4, for a detalled mtrix
of automation coats for these three subcompernts.



-26-
B. P
3.7        Ihe proposed World Bank loan of US$55.4 million equivalent Will finance 58 percen of totd
project cost. Mm Government will contribute US$37.0 million equivalet to finamc the realai  of offices
an  facilitie, most opuatuag expeme (except suppie, which will be financed ud er the loan), local salaia,
and all taxes and dutie (US$8.7 million). Parallel cofnanciig is eiaged firom the Canadin Govemnm
(about US$0.7 million) for TA in the career counseling subcomponent, from the German Goveenm    (about
US$0.9 million) for TA in Orgazing the NTB, and from the U.S. Dqa             of Labor (about US$1.2 million)
for TA unde the Employmet Services  bn. A conditon of elfectvn  is that all conditions
precdent to the effivene  of Cofinaniciers Agrements providing for loans and gs   in an aggegate
mount of US$1.6 million equivalent have beo  fulfilled
Table 3.4: PROJECr COMIPONENTS BY FINANS
(US$ million)
Governent
ircludes                                  US Dept.of
ta-e)      ImU        Caned     Gorn        Labor      Total
Amot       Ant        Amont      Amount     Amount     Amount
A. GCnrsl Policy & Naagmnt
1. Monitoring & Policy Analysis       0.5        3.9        0.0        0.0        0.0        6.6
2. Autmtion                           7.6       16.7        0.0        0.0        0.0       24.5
3. ProJect Nwngamant                  0.1        1.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        1.5
SuItotal                               8.5       22.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       30.4
B. Eploymunt & Trafning
1. Empltym.nt Sorv1cer               17.6        3.7        0.0        0.0        1.2       22.5
2. Counseling                         2.2        4.7        0.7        0.0        0.0        7.6
3. AduLt Training                     5.6       13.0        0.0        0.9        0.0       24.5
SubtotaL                              25.4       26.5        0.7        0.9        1.2       54.6
C. Social Protwetion
1. SociaL Insurnca                    0.2        3.9        0.0        0.0        0.0        4.1
2. Social s  istance                  3.0        3.1        0.0        0.0        0.0        6.0
TOTAL DISgUWSUMNT                     37.0       55.4        0.7        0.9        1.2       95.2



-27-
Table 3.5: EXPENDITUR ACCOUNTS BY SOURCE OF FINANCING
(USS million)
Govermnt
Cinctuda                                 US Dept.
taxes)     IBRD     Canads  Germany   of Labor  Total
Amoht   Amount   Amoumt   Amsint   Amount   Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS                        11.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      11.0
B. EQUIPNENT
Vehicles                            0.1       0.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.7
Caoputers                           2.0       9.2       0.0       0.0       0.0      11.3
Equipaent/Katerials                 4.6      1t.7       0.0       0.0       0.0      23.3
Subtotal                               6.7      28.5       0.0       0.0       0.0      35.3
C. CONSULTANTS
Experts frc abroad                  0.0      12.9       0.2      0CA        0.8      14.4
Experts, local                      0.0       1.0       0.0       0.0       0.0.      1.0
Subtotal                               0.0      13.9       0.2       0.4       0.8      15.4
D. TRAINING
LocaL                               0.0       2.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       2.7
Abroad                              0.0       2.7       0.4       0.5       0.4       4.0
Subtotal                               0.0       5.4       0.4       0.5       0.4       6.7
Total Investment Costs                 17.8      47.8       0.7       0.9       1.2      68.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
Local staff                        15.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      15.3
Supplies                            0.0       7.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       7.6
Vehicle maintenance                 0.2       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.2
Equipment Maintenance               3.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       3.7
Total Recurrent Costs                  19.3       7.6       0.0       0.0       0.0      26.8
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT                     37.0      55.4       0.7       0.9       1.2      95.2
Table 3.6: ESTIMATED FINA^NCING REOUIREMENTS BY PROJECT YEAR
(>USS '000)
Project Year           1995      1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001    TOTAL
Governnent             4.0        7.0       12.5        3.0        7.0        3.0        0.5    37.0
Germany                0.2        0.3        0.2        0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0      0.9
Canada                 0.1        0.2        0.2        0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0      0.7
US Dept. of Labor      0.2         0.4        0.3       0.2        0.1        0.0        0.0      1.2
IBRD                   5.0       13.8       17.6        7.5        6.0        5.0        0.5    55.4
TOTAL           9.5       21.7       30.8       10.9       13.3        8.0        1.0    95.2
MOTE: Figures my not add to totals dwi to roundirg.
C.          Prject Manament and IMRIementation
3.8         Project Manaumme   Strutr.   The project management structure will comprise:
(a) Technical Departments - responsible for professional and technical implementation of their
respective subcomponents as an integral part of their professional responsibilities; (b) the PCU -



-28-
responsible for administrative support in areas such as procurement and arrangements for TA; and
(c) a Technical Coordinating Committee (TCC) - responsible for coordinating implementation among
subcomponents as required and monitoring progress towards attainment of project objectives, policy
measures, etc. The general outline of the roles of the TDs for each subcomponent is given below,
followed by the roles of the PCU and the TCC (see Chart 3.1 for a listing of the implementing
departments and the Project Operating Manual for more detail on these roles).
3.9         Monitoring and Evaluation Subcomponent. A Monitoring and Evaluation Group (MEG)
will coordinate the implementation of this component. The Department of Social Idicators will play
the lead role in the MEG, which will bring together the various departments of the MOLSP that are
involved in the project. A significant part of the monitoring data will be produced through the MIS,
but there also will be the special purpose surveys to collect additional types of data. The MEG will
focus on oversight of the evaluation and publication of these data sources for policy purposes.
3.10        Automation Subcompnent. The Information Resources Management Directorate (IRMD)
will implement this component in close coordination with the end users whose needs are to be served.
A strategic plan for the IRMD has been prepared and will guide the implementation strategy for the
automation of IRMD. A new director and staff have been appointed for the IRMD. Training in
procurement of computers has already started for the IRMD staff, who already have some experience
in this area from the TACI Project and the Japan Grants.
Chart 3. 1: IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Crxnyonent & Subcrffoonent     Resmonibte Acency/Derartment    POM Rteference
1. General Police
(a)       PoLicy Monitoring        Monitoring/Evaluation Group      TOR 91
(b)       Automation               Automation Dept.(IRMD)           TOR 92
(c)       PCU                      Sec. State. for Reform           TOR n3
11       Empoyoment and Trainirs
(a)       Elployment Serv.         Sec.State Emp./Emp. Div.         TOR #41
(b)       lnrmut. Adjust. Serv.   Sec.State Emp./Emp. Div.          TOR 95
(c)       Counrseling Serv.        Sec.State Emp./Emp. Div.
and Ministry of Education        TOR 96'
(c)       Adult Training           Sec.State.Emp./Training Div.
National Training Board:
- NTB                                                    TOR E7
RATC and Adult Training Progras                        TOR 98
- Management Training                                    TOR #99
Ill.     Social Protectio
(a)       Social Insurance         Sec.State. Soc. Assistance       TOR #10
(b)       Social Asat.             Sec.State. Soc. Assistance       TOR #11
I/ Technical Assistance provided through prrollel bilateral financing.
?/ Management Training is not included in the Loan Agreement for the Project because
cofinancing was not available by Negotiations. At the request of the NOLSP, the TOM9 Is
kept in the POM in draft form to help MOLSP request financing for this from other donors.
3.11           Emplo=ment Services SubcomRonent. Implementation of this subcomponent will be
coordinated by the Secretary of State for Employment, Division of Employment, and will require
identification and allocation of at least seven fill-time staff to deal with the national and local
employment service activities. In addition a field service staff (approximately 16) will be attached to
an agency selected by MOLSP, in consultation with the NTB, to provide leadership for development



-29-
of Industrial Adjustment Services at the national and local levels. Technical asistance, including
foreign/local experts and related foreign/local training, will be delivered by one major contractor
according to terms of reference agreed with the Government and the Bank.
3.12       The TA contractor will enter into a sub-contractual relationship with a local agency and
will be responsible for delivering the large number of training programs to about 5000 local labor
office staff and 16 industrial adjustment staff once procedures, materials, and training programs will
have been developed. The TA contract will cover Romanian instructors, including travel and per
diem costs for the 5,000 local labor office staff who will each receive up to one month of training
over the duration of the project.
3.13        Career Information and Counseling Subcomoonent. Implementation of this
subcomponent will be coordinated by the Secretary of State for Employment, Division of
Employment. Activities will be implemented by the CICWG, staffed by about ten full-time
professional staff and three secretarial and clerical support personnel. It will be assisted in this task
by a broad-based Career Information and Counseling Advisory Group (CICAG) which will meet at
least twice annually to review CICWG plans and products, and make recommendations and taWe
actions to ensure they meet the needs of the diverse population of consumers of its career information
and counseling products. CICAG members will also facilitate local pilot testing, evaluation and
validation of materials and procedures developed by the CICWG. The CICWG will be located at the
Institute of Education Sciences, a site which is mutually agreeable to the MOLSP, Ministry of Youth
and Sports, and the Ministry of Education. Technical assistance (foreign consultants and fellowships)
will be provided through parallel Canadian Government Financing, in accordance with terms of
reference agreed upon by the Bank and MOLSP. The project will provide supplemental financing for
local consultants and training to be administered by the Division of Employment in coordination with
the Terms of Reference agreed between MOLSP, the Bank and the Canadian Government.
3.14        Adult Trainine Subcomn t. Implementation will be coordinated by the Secretary of
State for Employment, Division of Training, in cooperation with the National Training Board (NTB)
and its staff. Both adult and management training activities will be administered by the staff of the
NTB located in the MOLSP. These staff will be administratively attached to the MOLSP, funded
through the State budget or the Employment Fund, and will include approximately 13 professional
and four support personnel to cover the following functions: coordination and administration,
vocational training, general education, entrepreneurship, civil works, finance, occupational
counseling, enterprise services, evaluation and assessment. The Director, appointed by the MOLSP,
will be subject to the endorsement of the NTB.
3.15        Technical assistance (foreign/local consultants and foreign/local training) under this
subcomponent will be obtained from one general contractor according to TORs agreed with the
Government and the Bank. The contractor will provide technical assistance for the detailed
development of three RATCs and individual programs in existing and new private and public training
institutions. In addition, the NTB will be supported by German Bilateral Assistance (interational and
local consultants). The project will supplement this support by providing for fellowships which will
be directly administered by the NTB. The NTB will be responsible for initiating the process of
selection of eligible beneficiaries which will receive project resources (RATCs and individual adult
training programs) following criteria agreed with the Bank. Each individual project will be presented
for approval to the NTB by the NTB staff. Beneficiaries will sign contracts with the NTB/MOLSP
following which project resources will be made available to beneficiaries.



-30-
3.16        Social Insurance Subcomgonent. Implementation of this subcomponent will be carried
out by the newly formed Social Insurance Organization (SIO), which will be under the general policy
direction of the MOLSP. The TA contract (see POM for the detailed TOR #8) will provide expert
assistance to the MOLSP and the SIO during the transitional process during which the detailed
organization plan of the SIO is to be formulated. Many of the staff currently administering social
insurance will be transferred from Central Office for Pension Payments (COPP) to the SIO, but a few
will remain in the MOLSP to perform a policy and advisory role. The extensive automation
requirements for the newly reformed pension system will be met in collaboration with the IRMD
according to the TOR #2 in the automation component of this project.
3.17        Social Assistance Subcow onent. The Directorate for Social Assistance (DSA) within
the MOLSP will implement this component. The DSA supervises the Judet level social assistance
offices which will have a key role in implementing the new cash benefits and social service delivery.
Both the central and judet level offices will receive technical assistance and training according to
TOR#9. The DSA will cooperate with the local mayors' offices in the adminisration of the new cash
benefits programs and with the local education authorities (for those children enrolled in schools) in
the administration of child allowances. The TA contractors will assist the DSA and judet level social
assistance offices in developing its MIS and office work procedures to take maximum advantage of
the automation support to be introduced by the IRMD.
3.18        Project Coordination Unit. A Project Coordination Unit was established within the
MOLSP in September 1991 to coordinate the implementation of the Employment Component of the
TACI Project. This PCU has performed reasonably well, given that this was its first experience in
implementing a Bank project. Based upon the lessons learned in implementing the TACI Project and
preparing this project, the PCU is being expanded from two to six full-time staff to carry out a more
clearly defined role in the management structure of the project. The expanded PCU will execute the
decisions taken by the TCC, and will also provide the TDs with support in project management,
procurement and reporting. The PCU will perform, Ler alia, the following two specific functions:
(a)    assist the various TDs with such technical tasks as project accounts, procurement,
payments, establishment of contracts, communications with the Bank, etc.; and
(b)    monitor and report to MOLSP management and the Bank on the progress toward
achievement of the project objectives and the agreed policy measures.
3.19        Durine negotiations, the Government confirmed that the PCU staff has been expanded
to at least six full-time staff, including one person with a strong project management background, one
general administrator, one procurement specialist, one accountant, one bilingual secretary and one
translator. A condition of effectiveness is that the TA contractor for the PCU has been selected.
3.20        T                              A Technical Coordinating Committee comprising
representatives of each of the TDs will be established to coordinate the implementation of the project.
Each TD and the PCU will appoint one of its members to sit on the TCC. A scretary and
spokesperson will be selected for the committee. This committee will deliberate monthly on all
matters affecting the project and report directly to the Minister.
3.21        Poect Supervision. Supervision will need to include, in addition to the task manager
and project implementation specialist, periodic visits by specialists in automation, employment and



-31-
training, social insurance and social assistance. To help ensure smooth implementation, provide
trouble-shooting, and economize on supervision resources, the Human Resources Projects Officer
Oocal staff) of the Bucharest Resident Mission will provide support and follow-up with the MOLSP as
necessary.
D.                P         Procurement and Disburseme
3.22           The project elements, estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for those
elements financed by the Bank loan are summarized in Table 3.7 below. All prourement for goods
and services will be coordinated through the PCU (e.g., loca training instituons and labor offices
will not receive project funds to undertake procurement, but will be involved in developing equipment
lists and technical specifications, and evaluating bids).
Table 3.7: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS MILLION) a/
P r o c u r e m e n t   e t h o d
International
Cospetitive     Other        k.I.F. b/       Total
Bidding
1. Civil Works
1.1 Rehabilitation                                 -                       3.8 c/          3.8
1.2 New Construction                                                       7.2 c/          7.2
2. Goods
2.1 Equipaent/lNteriaLs                           20.4        2.9                          23.3
(16.8)      01.9)d/ e/ *1S.7)
2.2 Cowputers                                     10.6        0.7                          11.3
(8.7)      (05)d/                       (9.2)
2.3 Vehicles                                       0.7                                      0.7
(0.6)                                   (0.6)
3. Consultancies & Training
3.1 Implementatlon Support                         -          1.0                           1.0
(1.0)                        (1.0)
3.2 Institutional Developmn t                                11.7          1.5 fl          13.2
(11.7)                       (11.7)
3.3 Studies                                                   1.2                           1.2
(1.2)                        (1.2)
3.4 Training                                                  5.4          1.3 gf           6.7
(5.4)                        (5.4)
4. Incremental Opereting Costs                                    7.6 d/     19.3 h/          26.9
(7.6)                        (7.6)
ital                                                    31.6        30.6       35.1              95.2
(26.1)     (29.3)                       (55.4)
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the respective _ ownts financed by lERD.
A/   Figures my not add to totals  due to ro4nding.
kV Won-Sank Financed.
I/   US11.O Government financing.
d/   International and Local Shopping:  USS7.0 million and US$3.0 miLlion aggreqgte, respectively,
including USS7.6 miLlion for suppLies.
W    Contracts for goods which the Sank agrees are of proprietary nature may be aerded after direct
negotiation with supptiers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to tho Sank.
f/ USS0.2 million Canads; USS0.4 miLlion Germany; USSO.9 miLlion U.S. Department of Labor.
W'   USSO.4 million Canada; US$0.5 million Ger_mny; USS0.4 miLlion U.S. Deprtmnt of Lebor.
h/   Incremental operating costs, primarily Incremental staff saleries  nd equpent m_intnaneo, fInncmed
by the Governrunt.
3.23            The Bank's country-specific, standard bidding documents of June 1994 will be used for
ICB procurement. The laws and regulations governing local procurement procedures and practices in



-32-
Romania are being reviewed, and it is expected that the Country Procurement Assessment Report will
be completed this fiscal year. The findings of that review will be discussed with the Romanian
authorities and agreements wIll be sought regarding any changes needed to make the procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
3.24        All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelnes for Procuranent under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits' (May 1992). Romanian suppliers competing for contracts for the supply of goods procured
under ICB procedures will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CEP price or the
prevailing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided it can be
proved that the value added to the product in Romania exceeds 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
3.25        The dvil works included under the project consist of the rehabilitation of offices (about
170 building sites in 41 judets with an average rehabilitation cost of about US$30,000, excluding
contingencies and taxes), facilities for RATCs, and construction of new labor offices. All costs
related to civil works will be financed by the Government (US$ 11.0 million) according to local
procedures.
3.26        The goods to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds include equipment and
materials, computer hardware and software, and vehicles. Contracts for goods estimated to cost more
than US$300,000 equivalent each will be procured through ICB. To the extent practical, equipment
and materials will be grouped into about 12 packages of sizes that will interest large segments of
international vendors. Computers will be grouped into about three major packages (total value
estimated US$10.6 million). Contracts for goods (including supplies - para. 3.28) estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$300,000 or less, up to an aggregate of US$7.0 million, may be awarded on the
basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers from at least three eligible source countries.
Items that cannot be grouped or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$50,000 per contract, or off-the-shelf items, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$3.0 million, may be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations obtained from
qualified suppliers. Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of proprietary nature (e.g.,
computer software packages) may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.27        Consultants for technical assistance (TA) financed under the Bank loan (totalling
US$19.3 million: US$13.9 million for consultancies; US$5.4 million for training)) will be procured
on the basis of a short list of qualified firms and will follow the 'Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency' (August
1981). Chart 3.1 (page 28) shows the nine TA packages to be financed under the loan; and Annexes
10 and 17 provide details on the nine packages and the selection criteria. TORs for these packages
were finalized at negotiations. With respect to training, to the extent possible, selected TA
contractors will also coordinate overseas fellowships and local training, in conjunction with local
firms (see Annex 11 for a detailed summary of fellowships and training).
3.28        The incremental operating costs to be financed under the loan include non-salary
operating costs of investment such as office and administrative supplies and consumables, computer
supplies and consumables, and other costs related to project execution. The Bank will finance an
estimated US$7.6 million equivalent for supplies (an estimated US$4.9 million of which will be
procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers from three eligible source



-33-
countries, and an estimated US$2.7 million on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations from
qualified suppliers). All other operating costs, including all local salary costs, will be financed by the
Government (US$19.3 million).
3.29        All contracts of a value exceeding US$300,000 equivalent will be subject to the Bank's
prior review. It is expected that about 12 ICB contracts will be subject to this provision. All
consultant contracts (with the exception of small contracts valued at less that US$100,000 - of which
current packaging has foreseen none, although a case for which may arise during implementation),
will be subject to prior review, as will terms of reference for all consulting assignments. Selective
post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold level will be carried out on about one in four
goods equipment and materials contracts. It is expected that local suppliers will participate in all ICB
goods procurement. The PCU will coordinate all procurement activities. To assist the PCU in this
area, a long-term project implementation consultant, as well as short-term procurement experts, will
be hired. Estimated timing of procurement activities over the project life is outlined in Annex 17.
3.30        Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows: (a) prompt report
of contract award information by the Borrower; and (b) comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank
by the Borrower (assisted by consultants) indicating (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts
and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies,
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and
completion time for individual contracts, and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement.
3.31        Disbursements. Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) for equipment and materials, and 80 percent of local expenditures for
other items procured locally;
(b) 100 percent of the expenditures for consulting services;
(c) 100 percent of expenditures for fellowships abroad and local training; and
(d) 100 percent of total expenditures for supplies.
3.32      All disbursements will be fully documented except goods costing less than US$300,000
equivalent, local training, and supply purchases, for which disbursements will be made against
statements of expenditure (SOE), certified by the director of the PCU. The required supporting
documentation will be retained by the PCU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit
report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation will be made
available for review by the auditors and by visiting staff upon request. A tentative disbursement
schedule for the loan is presented in Annex 12. The Project closing date will be September 30, 2001.
3.33      Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account
in convertible currency, to which the World Bank will make an initial deposit of US$2.5 million.
The Special Account will be replenished every four months, or whenever one third of the authorized
balance will have been withdrawn. Documentation requirements for replenishment applications will



-34-
follow the procedures required by the Bank disbursement department. In addition, monthly bank
statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower will accompany all
replenishment requests. A project account in lei wDI be established prior to loan effectiveness and
wIll be used by the PCU for expenditures to be covered by Government financing.
3.34      Proiect Accounts and Audits. The PCU wIll maintain separate accounts for all project
activities, in conformity with international accounting practices. Project accounts, including the
Special Account, wIll be audited in accordance with the Bank 'Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank' (March 1982). The Bank will be provided, within
six months of the end of each fiscal year of the Government, an audit report of such scope and detail
as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements
against certified SOEs. The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
E.        Project Reporting and Evaluation
3.35      R nrting. The PCU will prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial reports
(beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness) on each project component, objective and activity
describing: (a) current status; (b) deviations, if any, from the implementation schedule; and (c)
reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken. Project monitoring indicators were
developed during appraisal, and sample progress reporting documents are in the POM. Reporting and
Bank supervision will focus on in-depth reviews of the policy framework for sectoral improvements,
the consistency of activities for each component and sub-component with agreements reached at
negotiations, performance of the implementing groups and institutions, assessment of emerging needs
for adjustments to project parameters, and possible follow-up operations which could be supported by
the Bank. The bases of Bank supervision will be the semi-annual progress reports and the annual
evaluation of project activities by MOLSP, supplemented by a review of project expenditures and
availability of financial resources, in addition to substantive discussions with technical assistance
providers assisting in the implementation of various components, and discussions with senior officials
of the MOLSP and the Ministry of Finance. The POM, finalized and agreed upon with the
Government during Negotiations, will also be used to assist supervision and reporting. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will review sectoral reform progress
annually with the Bank according to an agreed set of monitoring indicators and prepare jointly with
the Bank a mid-term review of project execution to verify that the project components are operating
according to the agreed criteria and procedures and to incorporate modifications where necessary (no
later than June 30, 1997).
3.36      Mid-Term Review/Evaluation. The Govermnent and project authorities will prepare a
mid-term report of project execution about two years after loan effectiveness, and no later than June
30, 1997. The annual work program for the year following the joint mid-term review will need to
reflect the recommendations of the review. The project completion date will be March 31, 2001.
F.        Status of Preparation
3.37      The status of preparatory activities of September 1994 is as follows:



-35-
(a) Project Coordination and Implementation Responsibilities. A functioning PCU
already exists as a result of the TACI project, and some of the PCU staff have
received training and have experience in procurement procedures. The director and
some staff have already participated in procurement training conducted by the
Departmental Procurement Advisor. Further procurement training for the PCU staff
has been completed recently at the ILO Training Center in Turin (financed by the
Japan Grant for preparation of the project). The senior management of the MOLSP
now has acquired some familiarity with the requirements for implementing a Bank-
financed project. The remaining portion of the Japan Grant is being used to organize
training and TA for the project start-up, such as helping the social assistance and
insurance offices organize for the implementation of the new cash benefit and social
insurance laws.
(b) Detailed Project Proposals/Policy Statements. The White Papers on social assistance
and insurance have been completed and disseminated. A new Social Assistance Law,
acceptable to the Bank, has been drafted submitted to Parliament. The Social
Insurance Law, after a period of public dissemination of the White Paper, is being
drafted and is scheduled for submission to Parliament by January 1995. All of the
protocols for activities in the Employment and Training Component have been signed.
A Project Operational Manual (POM), which contains all TORs for TA and the
implementation plan and schedule, has been prepared based upon the detailed project
objectives and activities matrices (see Annex 14). For each project component, the
POM contains TORs for TA, criteria and procedures to be followed in the selection of
local institutions which will receive project support, implementation schedules, and
technical background as appropriate. The implementation and supervision plans are
found in Annexes 15 and 16, respectively.
(c) Bidding Documents/LOIs/Eguipment Lists. Country-specific standard bidding
documents (SBDs) have been discussed and substantially agreed with the Government.
The Bank's draft SBDs for computers have been used as a model for those produced
for the procurement of computer equipment under the TACI Project. Letters of
Invitation for the nine TA packages are ready to be issued after finalizing the TORs at
negotiations. After the technical design studies have been completed by the
implementing TDs with the assistance of consultants, equipment lists will be finalized
and the bidding process launched.



-36-
IV. BENEFTrS AND RISKS
A.       Ben
4.1       The project will significantly assist in the restructuring of the economy by strengthening
the capacity to cope with unemployment, improving labor mobility, and providing the new skills
needed in a market economy for both workers and managers. Upon completion of the project,
Romania will have in place an employment service and job training system which will quicldy
respond to shifting market needs. The MOLSP will improve its organization and management
capabilities through the automation and project monitoring to be put into place. The social safety net,
which the project will help build up, will strengthen the political will needed to pursue economic
reforms during the period when poverty and other social problems intensify. These benefits from the
social safety net are not just of a humanitarian nature but, as demonstrated by the experience of
OECD countries, represent a significant investment in human resources and contribute to financial
savings by avoiding more serious problems resulting from neglect of pressing social needs.
B.       Risks
4.2       A major risk to successful implementation of the project is that of present implementation
capacity of the MOLSP is insufficiently developed relative to the complexity of the tasks of building
up both reactive and proactive employment and social protection programs. Although MOLSP has
now acquired implementation experience in the smaller-scale TACI Project, this much larger project
will require strengthening the implementation capacity of the MOLSP. The implementation plan
incorporates lessons learned in the TACI Project, and appropriate and sufficient amounts of TA and
training, focusing on helping the MOLSP make the transition to large-scale project management. A
project supervision plan has been formulated to assist the MOLSP in following Bank guidelines by
helping in the preparation of standard bidding and contract documents. Nonetheless, intense
supervision from headquarters and the resident mission will be required to minimize the risks posed
by weak implementation capacity.
4.3       A second important risk to successful implementation of the project is that of adequate
financing for the incremental recurrent costs, especially for additional staffing required under the
Employment Services Component. This has been a problem in other countries in the region,
especially as unemployment rises sharply and Government budgets become increasingly constrained,
where additional staff budgets are not allocated to increase and improve the quality of services. This
risk is being addressed by explicitly highlighting the need for incremental staffing, including it in the
project cost estimates, and securing the commitment of both the Ministry of Finance and the MOLSP
to adequate staffing levels.



-37-
V. 9                             ANDREC               A
5.1                         the Government provided assurances that it will:
(a) ense that all esuet  staff required for the carrying out of the Project shall be
appointed by June 30, 1995 and it is epe  that the Goverment would i) designate at
loast seven full-time staff (from the Employment Departmet of MOLSP or the Rosesch
Institute for Labor and Socil Protection) to be responsible for the implementation of the
employment services componaet (soe para. 2.19), ii) identify, in coopation with the
NTB, the host agency for the UAS and appoint the core working team (see para. 2.19),
and iii) assi, in coopeaton with the other agencies signing the CaC Protocol, ten full-
time profesional staff, in addition to sufficient support staff to enesur development and
ongoing implementation of the CIC in Romania (see para. 2.23);
(b) review sectoral reform progres anmnally with the Bank according to an agreed sat of
monitoring indicators and prepare jointly with the Bank a mid-term review to verify that
the project components are operatng according to the agreed criteria and procedures and
to incorporate modifications where necessary (no later than June 30, 1997) (see para.
3.35).
conditions of Effect
5.2          Conditions of effective.n, are that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
Cofinniciers Agreemen  providing for loans and grants in an aegate amount of US$1.6 million
equivalent have been fulfilled (soe para. 3.7) and that the firm to provide TA for the PCU has been
slected (see para. 3.19).
C flitioSs of
5.3       As conditio  of disbursm t on the social insurance and social assistance
subcomponents, the Government agreed that withdrawals shall be subject to the enacument of Social
Insurance and Social Assistance laws, reflecting the principles set forth respctively in the Social
Insurance White Paper and the Social Assistance White Paper (previously finalized by the
Government and agreed with the Bank), and the completion of the implemeatn arrangements for
these laws (see paras. 2.37 and 2.45).
5.4       Subject to the above, the proposd operation will provide a suitable basis for a loan of
US$55.4 million to the Government of Romania.



I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 )



39
Amexes
Annex 1:  Institutional Description of the Cash Benefit System
Annex 2:   Labor and Social Statistics
Annex 3:   Letter of Development Policy
Annex 4:   Social Assistance White Paper: Executive Summary
Annex 5:   Social Insurance White Paper: Executive Summary
Annex 6:   Career Information and Counseling Protocol
Annex 7:   National Training Board Protocol
Annex 8:   Criteria for Adult and Management Training Programs
Annex 9:   Detailed Costs and Implementation Schedule
Annex 10:  Summary of Technical Assistance
Annex 11:  Summary of Fellowships and Training
Annex 12:  Estimated Disbursement Profile
Annex 13:  Monitoring Indicators
Annex 14:  Project Objectives and Activities Matrix
Annex 15:  Implementation Plan
Annex 16:  Supervision Plan
Annex 17:  Base Procurement Implementation Plan
Map: IBRD 25020R



40



,  |PMinistry of                                    o
l age        |ne o-    TrainingDiDLabor  & Social Protectionc
Department of                                Department                     |Dpt. of       |     Dept. of     l
Labor Force                                  of Social                       Lgislato            Occupational
l              ~~~~and Wages                                  Protect ion                                           Safety
|Director              ||Director                               |Director                  Cenral Office
|General       ll                   General                       General  |              ametofPeso _
Iwage   |    Unemploy-|  [Training        Director         Director          Soial
Policy      | ment                          of Social            of             Assistance
District-         - - - - -  District
Offices - - - - - - - - - - Offices
Office of                     Office of        Office of          Office of         Etc.
Labor                         Soc. Ins.      | Pensions           Soc. Assist.
Unemployment                  Collection of        Pension claims                                  Pension
contributions       Changes                                          Payments
* Pensions          Terminations
* Suppl1mentary                                                       1
Banks           Retired                                       Post Office
Employees,                                   Network
Pensioners                                      |              OQ Ix
Pm
0
E"ployers                                                      Pensioners 



42                                       Annex i
Page 2 of 17
INSTITUTIONAL DZSCRIPTION OF TRZ CASH BZNIFIT SYSTeM l
UNEMPLOYMENT -BENEFIT
The unemployment was not officially recognized (for political reasons)
during the previous regime. Beginning with 1991 the unemployment was
officially recognized and the unemployment benefits were introduced. The level
of unemployment increased rapidly from 3.1 percent in 1991 to 8.4 percent in
1992 and 10.2 by the end of 1993. The latest estimate in February 1994 was
11.3 percent. The unemployment benefits are paid out of the unemployment fund
which is founded from contributions of both the employers (5 percent on the
total wage bill) and employees (1 percent on their individual wage bill).
Benefit levels. The size of unemployment benefit varies from 50 percent
to 60 percent of the wage in the final three months in the last job (depending
upon the length of service) or from 75 percent to 85 percent of the minimum
wage if the last wage was below minimum wage. The benefit formula is shown in
Table 1.
Duration of benefit. The duration of benefit is 270 days. After the
completion of 270 days the unemployed people are entitled to a post-
unemployment support benefit which is 40 percent of the minimum wage, for a
period of 18 months.
Eligibility rules. At present eligibility for unemployment benefit
extends to anyone over 19 years old who is unemployed due to liquidation or
shrinkage of a firm. Those with enough agricultural land to support themselves
are excluded. Unemployed school leavers from poor families (excluded in most
countries) are eligible.
Withholding benefit: refusal of job/training offers: an individual who
refuses two 'reasonable' offers will lose benefit. A 'reasonable' offer can
be either an appropriate job or an appropriate training course. If a Labor
Office whose offer of training has been refused then fails to find the
individual a job and a further offer of training is refused, it can cut off
benefit. Failure to keep in touch with the Labor Office will lead to the
benefit cancellation. Failure to declare a job placement will be penalized.
Utrating of benefit A result of inflation, the unemployment benefits are
periodically indexed, together with the wages and other social safety
benefits.
Related benefits
School leavers nroqwrams. In addition to the unemployment benefit scheme,
the MOLSP has attempted three other measures to help the unemployed. The first
is a wage subsidy program for secondary school and university graduates. In
this scheme, initiated for the 1992 graduates ant then extended yearly,
participating firms receive a wage subsidy equal to the-graduate entitlement
This annex was prepared by Nichoas Barr for th red cover report, Romanit Human Resources and the
Transion to a Market Economy (1992). Sorne of the nfrmation has been updaed by Richard Flores
(ECIRO).



43
Annex I
Page 3 of 17
to the unemployment benefit. The success of this program has been very limited
and it is not clear that even that disappointing results are, in fact, due to
the wage subsidy program.
Training Droqrams. The second measure is the training for unemployed.
The labour offices arrange retraining courses with a variety of institutions,
but the completion rate and the job placement rates are very low. A large part
of the lack of success is due to lack of time and proper training on the part
of staff to screen and council potential trainees, conduct proper labor market
analysis and to make and follow up on contracts with employers. In addition
the institutions supplying the training are the traditional vocational
schools, which are not used to providing training in a market oriented
environment. Problems with the training programs are also due to lack of
vacancies from the weak labour demand.
Small business Droc'rams. The third measure is a program to promote small
business start-ups by the unemployed by providing training in business skills.
This has been the least successful, not surprisingly, because it is the most
difficult program among the three measures.
Unemnlovment Fund
In spite of the continuous increase of the unemployment, the
unemployment fund registered important surplus amounted to 1 percent of the
GDP only for 1993. The surplus comes from the relatively high tax (which was
imposed prior the effectiveness of the unemployment benefits) and the gradual
increases in unemployment. While it is true that the accumulated surplus is
substantial, its real value is being eroded by inflation. However, the
surpluses could turn into deficits in the next years, as the tax base, and
hence revenues, decline due to reductions in salaried employment, and as
expenditures increase due to increases in eligible unemployment. In case the
unemployment fund will face a deficit, the State Budget will make it up.
Administration
The administration of unemployment benefit scheme is carried out through
the local offices of the MOLSP. The labor offices are presently overwhelmed
with claims processing and can barely provide good job assistance and
retraining services, such as counseling workers on job search strategies and
opportunities for training.
SOCIAL INSUR-ANCE
Social insurance has widespread coverage in Romania. It includes
essentially universal entitlement to old age, disability, and survivors,
pensions as well as sick and maternity leave. Among all the social insurance
instruments the pensions are the most important ones, in terms of coverage and
expenditures (7.5 percent from the GDP in 1993).



44
Annex l
Page 4 of 17
The system has been complicated by the existence multiple social
insurance funds (almost 10 independent schemes). Starting with mid 1933, these
funds have been unified and reduced in number such as: (a) the main state
fund, which covers employees in the state and private sectors and self-
employed individuals; (b) the agricultural fund; and (c) other two independent
funds, including one each for lawyers, and clergy. Each of these funds has two
components: the main fund, and the supplementary pensions fund. Assessments of
the status of the first two largest social insurance schemes are presented
here.
I.    CONTRIBUTIONS
The State Social Insurance Fund
Social insurance contributions and benefits hitherto were consolidated
with the general government budget. From 1991 the Social Insurance Fund has
been separated from the main central government budget.
The main benefits funded by the state Social Insurance Fund are
(a) sickness benefits, (b) maternity benefits, and (c) the main social
insurance pensions for (i) employees in the state and private sectors, and
(ii) self-employed individuals with a contributions record.
Contributions to the main state scheme:
(a)   Prior to November 1990 the normal contribution for employees was:
state and private sectors, 14 percent of the enterprise wage
bill; government sector (ministries, schools, hospitals, etc.),
13 percent; state agriculture, nine percent; household
employees, seven percent; joint ventures with overseas companies,
25 percent. Self-employed individuals paid a 14 percent
contribution on a voluntary basis. Since wages are difficult to
determine for a self-employed person, such people pay a
contribution based on a deemed wage equal to that of a director of
a medium size state enterprise.
(b)   Since November 1990 the State Social Insurance Fund has been based
on mandatory contributions paid mainly by the state owned and
private companies amounted to 25 percent of the payroll. The self-
employed pay the same contribution based o8 an income statement on
voluntary basis. The rationale for the change is to attempt to put
the autonomous Social Insurance Fund onto a sound financial
footing.
Budget balance: any deficit on the Social Insurance Fund will be made
up from the government budget. Liberalization of the early-retirement
provisions (see the discussion of pensions, below) resulted in a substantial
deficit of the Social Insurance Fund in 1990. Enforcement of the contribution
in the emerging private sector was difficult. Early retirement and the-
enforcement problem, together with the separation of the main Social Insurance



45
Annex I
Page 5 of 17
Fund from the central government budget, motivated the contribution increase.
The State Sunolementary Pensions Fund
In the past, workers paid a two percent contribution towards a
supplementary pension;  they also had the option of paying a further,
voluntary two percent contribution, making four percent in all. Since 1986
the voluntary contribution has been abolished, and workers pay a contribution
of three percent of their basic wage (i.e. net of bonuses and overtime) to pay
for their supplementary pension (described below). The supplementary pension
contribution for self-employed workers is voluntary.
These contributions flow into the state Supplementary Pensions Fund,
from which Supplementary Pensions are paid.
The Social Insurance Fund for Farmers
The second largest pension fund is the Agricultural Pension Fund;it
covers 1.3 mil. pensioners (almost 29 percent of the total number of
pensioners in 1993). Prior 1991, its revenues derived from three main sources:
(a)   Contributions in respect of members of agricultural co-operatives,
of 9.5 percent no of the co-operative's total wage bill but of
the total value of its sales, i.e. the tax base is not wages but
turnover.
(b)   A transfer from the central government budget of two percent of
the value of agricultural co-operative sales to the state sector.
(c)   Contributions from inter co-operative associations (e.g. an
association of poultry breeders) (4.5 percent of total sales).
Since 1990, when the agricultural co-operatives have been abolished the
scheme was run with big deficits. This deficits were covered by loans form
state insurance fund or by subsidies from the state budget. According to the
new legislation the financing is based on:
(a)   voluntary contributions of the private farmers (7 percent over the
monthly insured income).
(b)   mandatory contributions of the companies which are producing,
processing or trading agro-products (2-4 percent over their
revenues after the deduction of taxes).
As a first step towards establishment of a unified pension system,
starting with 1993 the Agriculture Pension Scheme was taken over by the MOLSP
which currently administrates it.
The fund pays broadly the same range of benefits (though generally at a
lower level) as derive from the main social insurance fund.
II.   BENEFITS



46
Annex I
Page 6 of 17
Sickness Benefit
Eligibility rules: coverage includes workers in all sectors including
the state sector, the private sector, self-employed individuals (so long as
contributions have been paid). Benefit is payable to members of the labor
force who are either ill themselves or who are unable to work because they
live in an area which has been quarantined. The major exclusion is workers in
private agriculture.
Benefit levels: Benefits under the main scheme depend on whether or not
the illness/injury is work-related. Where it is not, benefit is dependent (a)
on previous earnings, and (b) upon length of time in the labor force, as shown
in Table 2. Where the illness/injury is work-related, benefit is 85 percent
of previous earnings, irrespective of duration in the labor force. Until
1990, members of agricultural co-operatives received sickness benefit at a
lower rate. Since January 1, 1990 benefits have been the same as for members
of the state scheme.
Duration of benefit is normally up to 180 days. If there is no prospect
of recovery thereafter, the individual transfers to a disability pension.
Exenditure and numbers of recilpients of sicmess benefit are set out in
Tables 6 and 7. In 1989, sickness benefit at an average daily rate of Lei 91
was paid in respect of 45 million days of sick leave, an average of 5.6 days
per worker. Total expenditure on sickness benefit in 1989 was Lei 4.1 billion.
Administration of Sickness Benefit
Sickness benefit is administered by the enterprise. Benefit is paid by
the enterprise on the basis of certification by an enterprise-based doctor or
by policlinic/hospital doctor. When an enterprise has paid sickness benefit,
it recovers the money by withdrawing it from the bank account in which it has
deposited its social insurance contributions. Beginning with 1990 granting of
sick leave benefits became more relaxed. As a result of this, sick leave
claims increased by almost 50 percent. this had an important impact on the
social insurance fund which covered entirely the sick leave costs. Many abuses
have been noticed.
The legislation was modified in 1992, when it was decided that first 10
days of the sick leave be covered by the employer and the rest by the
insurance fund.
Related Sickness Benefits.
PeolDe iniured during the revolution are entitled to sickness benefit at
100 percent of their previous wage with no limit as to duration.
Maternity Benefit



47
Annex 1
Page 7 of 17
Eliaibility rules: coverage applies to mothers who at the time they
became pregnant were working in the state sector, the private sector, or
agricultural sector.
Benefit levels. First and second children: benefit is 50 percent of
the mother's previous wage if she has been in the labor force for less than
six months; 65 percent if she has been in the labor force 6-12 months, and 85
percent if over 12 months. Third and subsequent children: 94 percent of
previous wage irrespective of time in the labor force. Since January 1, 1990
benefits have been the same as for members of the state insurance scheme.
Duration of benefit is 112 calendar days, 52 before the birth and 60
afterwards. Women cannot be dismissed whilst in receipt of maternity benefit.
Related Maternity Benefits.
Short-time working durina Dreqnancv: for the last three months before
taking maternity leave a woman is entitled to work for only six hours per day
with no loss of pay; the wage differential is paid out of the Social
Insurance Fund.
Mothers with sick children: a woman who has to stay at home to look
after a sick child under three years old is entitled to benefit at the same
rate as maternity benefit.
Mothers with a child under one Year old: under a new law passed in
February 1990, a mother with a child under one year old may stay at home on 65
percent of her previous wage.
Expenditure and numbers of recipients are set out in Tables 6 and 7.
Benefit at an average rate of Lei 76.7 per day was paid to 34,000 women
entitled either to maternity leave or who were at home looking after a sick
child. Total expenditure in 1989 was Lei 2.6 billion.
Administration of Maternity Benefits
Maternity and related benefits are administered by the enterprise in
broadly the same way as sickness benefit.
Pensions
The structure of pensions is threefold: social insurance pensions;
supplementary pensions; and various other pensions. Social insurance
pensions are of three sorts, relating to retirement, invalidity and survivors'
benefits, respectively. The supplementary retirement pension is additional to
the national insurance pension and is paid for by an additional contribution.
The third group comprises a variety of other social insurance pensions: for
Second World War veterans; for people with only between five and 10 years in
the labor force; for workers in agricultural co-operatives; and for workers
in private (mainly peasant) agriculture.    -



48
Annex 1
Page 8 of 17
Social Insurance Pensions (Retirement)
Eliqibilitv rules. (1) Pensionable age: though the normal retirement
age is 60 (55 women), there has been considerable erosion. There are three
groups for retirement purposes: Group 1 includes heavy and/or dangerous work,
e.g. mining, chemistry, oil exploration, steel workers, anyone involved in the
flying side of aviation, opera singers and ballerinas: individuals may retire
at age 50 (men and women), provided that they have worked for at least 20
years. Group 2 includes not as heavy/dangerous as group 1: individuals may
retire at age 55 (50 in the case of women), provided that they have worked for
at least 25 years (20 women). Group 3 is the theoretical norm: individuals
may retire at age 60 (55 in the case of women), provided that they have worked
for at least 30 years (25 women).
Prior to 1990 about 10 percent of workers were in groups 1 and 2. The
definition of who qualified tended to be generous. For instance, the early-
retirement entitlement of workers in petrol refineries was extended to
everyone in the refinery industry, including clerical staff, etc.
In 1990, Decree 60 allowed workers in all three groups to retire five
years earlier than previously. The Decree, which led to a wave of early
retirement (at a very rough estimate, about 800,000), was in force until
January 1991. This wave of early retirement was the main cause of a deficit
of the Social Insurance Fund in 1990 of Lei S billion.
Eligibility rules. (2) Retirement conditions: under certain
circumstances it is possible to receive a pension and continue to work, at
least part time.
(a)   It is possible to work after retirement provided that the sum of
the pension and post-retirement earnings do not exceed the pre-
retirement wage. If earnings x pension exceed the previous wage,
the pension is reduced Leu for Leu with the excess over the
previous wage.
(b)   Notwithstanding (a), workers in certain key industries may work
for up to three months in the year without any loss of pension,
however high their earnings during those three months. Though
hard data were not available, a rough estimate is that such
workers amount to some 10 percent of the labor force.
(c)   Notwithstanding (a), self-employed retirees, workers in co-
operative farms and in private agriculture do not lose any pension
if they continue to work.
Benefit levels: the level of the social insurance pension depends (a)
on the level of previous warnings of the last five years, (b) upon the
worker's group (as defined above), and (c) upon years of work. Details of the
full pension (i.e. where a person has worked for the requisite number of
years) are set out in Table 3. Workers in the first two groups (i.e. those
who are allowed to retire early) receive a higher pension, other things being
equal, than individuals in the third group.  Where-a-person-works for more-
than the required number of years, he/she receives an additional one percent



49
Annex I
Page 9 of 17
of pension for each extra year for the first five extra years, and an
additional 0.5 percent per year thereafter.
Unratinc of benefit: there was no formal requirement that pensions be
uprated in line with inflation. In practice, pension levels are reviewed from
time to time (1977, 1979, 1982, 1984, 1988). The resulting increases did not
always fully account for inflation; higher pensions are sometimes increased
proportionately less than lower ones.
Since the indexation of wages and other incomes became a common
practice, the pensions are periodically adjusted through Government Decisions.
Generally the indexation formulas have been forward looking with coefficients
below expected inflation. In addition the Government has declared ad hoc
fixed-sum compensations as reimbursement for the raising of food prices.
Related Pensions
The SuzDlementary Pension: the contribution conditions were described
above. They buy an additional pension which is shown in Table 3B. The
pension is not uprated.
Retirement Densions for other aroups: Benefits under the main social
insurance scheme: (a) Pensions for Second World War veterans, (b) pensions
for individuals with only 5-10 years in the labor force are paid at a fixed
level of Lei 700/month. Pensions for workers in agricultural co-operatives:
the following are the main differences from the state scheme: (a)
contributions (which are lower than for the main state scheme) are paid into a
different fund, (b) the normal retirement age is 65 (60 women), (c) the
pension is lower than in the main state scheme. The pension is related to the
number of contribution years and to the income of the co-operative. Reform
during 1990 established a minimum pension of Lei 500 and a maximum of Lei 1300
per month, with an average of about Lei 650/month, (d) a Draft Law seeks to
lower the retirement age to 60 (55 women) and to pay pensions for members of
agricultural co-operatives according to the same formula as under the main
social insurance scheme, (c) pensions for workers in private (mainly peasant)
agriculture: reform during 1990 established a minimum pension of Lei
500/month to a maximum of Lei 1300/month.
Social Insurance Pensions (Invalidity)
Eligibility rules. The definition of disability is common between the
MOLSP and the Ministry of Health: there are three degrees of disability: (a)
First degree: no autonomy; (b) Second degree: some autonomy, but cannot
work; (c) Third degree: less than 50 percent work capacity. There is a
disability commission in each district which determines the degree of
invalidity of applicants.
Benefit levels are based on the formula for the retirement pension (see
Table 3): (a) First degree: 100 percent of the retirement pension + Lei
300/month ,  (b) - Sec0cd degree: tS percent- of the- retirement-pension,- -tc) Third
degree: 60 percent of the retirement pension; the pension is unaffected by



50
Annex 1
Page 10 of 17
any earnings the individual has.
Duration of benefit: Benefit normally commences after a person has
received sick pay for 180 days. Eligibility is checked every six months to a
year; benefit is payable so long as the disability persists.
Social Insurance Pensions (Widows)
A widow living alone and aged 55 or more is entitled to either her own
pension or a widow's pensions, whichever is the larger. The widow's pension
is equal to half of her deceased husband's pension; a widow with one child
receives 75 percent of the pension; a widow with three or more children
receives the whole pension. Where a widow is under 55, she receives the
pension just described for six months only. The definition of children for
the purposes of widow's pension is a child under 16, or under 25 if in full-
time education.
Administration of Social Insurance Pensions
The administration of the main social insurance pension and the
supplementary pension is integrated.
The Ministry of Labor in Bucharest has computerized contribution
records. Each month it prints a list of all pensioners (name, address, amount
of pension to be paid), which it sends to the post office in each District.
The District post office staggers mailings. On the appointed day each
month, it sends each pensioner a envelope containing (a) his/her pension in
cash, and (b) a statement of the amount of the pension, including a tear-off
slip which the pensioner signs and returns to the postman. Alternatively, the
pensioner has the option of asking the post office to deposit the pension
directly into his/her bank account.
Reform issues
A White Paper prepared by the MOLSP, sets out the options and the major
proposals to be considered for a new further pension law. These proposals are
listed below:
- An unified public pension system that will integrate all the
independent systems is needed. Administrative responsibility for the
system should be transferred to a new independent agency, that would
report to the MOLSP.
- A new benefits structure for social insurance and pensions is
recommended.
- A gradually increase of the retirement age is envisaged in order to
ensure -the future solvency of- the pension fund. The- income -to --be used
in determining social insurance contributions, pensions, and other



51
Annex I
Page 11 of 17
benefits be clearly defined.
- A simplified pension calculation formula is proposed in order to
increase the system's transparency and fairness, and to improve
distribution within and between generations.
- In evaluating social insurance contributions, it is suggested that
responsibility for contributions for employed persons be allocated
between employers and employees, in proportions that would differ
among work groups.
- A strategy for developing a voluntary private pension scheeme is laid
out to complement the public pension system. Such a private scheeme
would allow people to add substantially to their retirement incomes.
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
Family Allowance
During the previous regime, the cash payments as well as the tax credits
were provided both to ensure support to the families with children, and to
stimulate the natality. This section describes the family benefits as of
October 1990, as well as the provisions of the new legal framework.
Elicibilitvy rules. Until 1993 when the new legislation was approved,
system covered: (a) children of employees of state enterprises: the father
receives the family allowance via the enterprise (the money derives from the
central government budget; the enterprise merely administers payment). If
the father is not employed in the state sector but the mother is, the payment
is made to the mother; (b) Employees of agricultural and other co-operatives
receive their family allowance from the co-operative. In the case of non-
agricultural co-operatives, such allowances derive from the co-operative's
income, not from the central government budget. The children of: self-
employed individuals, employees in the private sector, unemployed or non-
employed people, and of workers in private agriculture were excluded.
The newly approved legislation (end of 1993) extended the coverage area
of the child allowance to all resident children in Romania (no matter the
citizenship). At the same time the tax credits have been removed. The child
allowances are currently administrated by: (a) MOLSP for the pre-school age
children and (b) Ministry of Education for school age children.
Benefit levels as they are shown in Table 4. were differentiated based
on the wage and number of children. In the case of members of agricultural co-
operatives, family allowances are paid at the lowest of the three levels in
the Table.
According to the new legislation the allowance became a fixed-sum which
is not related to the number of children or family income. The child allowance



52
Annex 1
Page 12 of 17
is uprated periodically together with the wages and other incomes.
Duration of benefit: current law: till age 16 (if handicapped till age
18). Handicapped individuals receive the Lei 1000/month described above for
the duration of the handicap, if necessary for life.
The new law establish the benefit duration till the age of 16 or till 18
in full time education.
Related Family Benefits
Maternity pension: a mother with three or more children receives an
additional allowance of Lei 400/month (3 children) or Lei 500/month (4 or more
children). The benefit is payable to the mother for life, i.e. it is a
maternity pension.
Birth allowance: under current arrangements there is a one-time payment
for each birth after the first of Lei 1500.
Wives of conscripts: the pregnant wife of a military conscript receives
a payment of Lei 500/month (Lei 300/month in villages), provided that she
conforms with various conditions.
Guardian's Allowance: foster parents receive Lei 1000/month/child they
look after. The payment was raised from its previous level of Lei 400 in a
Law passed in February 1990.
Administration
Current arrangements: administration of the main family allowance is
through the MOLSP and Ministry of Education. Maternity pension is
administered at the Primaria level by the same team that administers social
assistance. Payment is to the mother at her enterprise if she works. If she
does not work, she can be paid at the enterprise where her husband works if
she goes there in person, or (as with the main pensions) she can be paid by
post. The birth allowance is also administered by the Primaria team, normally
through the post.
Other benefits
With the exception of six centrally-funded social assistance residential
institutions for the elderly, and two special schools run by non-profit
organizations, all social assistance is funded out of the local (District)
budget. Importantly, however, there is provision for central assistance if a
District overspends its social assistance budget in the face of higher-than-
expected demands on it.
Benefits for Handicapped Peolle.
Eligibility rules:  Under the Law of February 1990 the person must be:



53
Annex I
Page 13 of 17
over 16; handicapped in he first, second or third degree, as defined for
invalidity pension (in the previous law, people handicapped in the third
degree had to work); have no income; have no relatives (defined as parents or
children) with wages (i.e. net of family allowance, etc.) higher than Lei
1000/month/person in the family.
Benefit levels: individuals who meet the qualifying conditions receive
a cash benefit of Lei 500/month plus, where relevant, free prostheses.
Duration of benefit is without limit.
Related Benefits
Death or nermanent handicap during the revolution: Death during
revolution: the surviving family,receives a one-time payment of Lei 1500.
Permanent handicap: one-off payments of: Lei 20,000 if a person is an invalid
in first degree (as defined for invalidity pension); Lei 10,000 for an invalid
in the second degree; or Lei 5000 for an invalid in the third degree. Free
prostheses. Free transport within home town, plus two free long-distance train
journeys per year. People who were permanently handicapped during the
revolution are also entitled to a pension.
Benefits for Other Individuals
Eliaibilitv rules and benefit levels: elderly people are entitled to
three types of benefits: If they have no pension at all (e.g. because they
have never worked in the state sector), they are entitled to a social
assistance pension of Lei 500/month. The eligibility rules for this pension
are the same as those for the social assistance cash benefits for the
handicapped, i.e. the pensioner must be too infirm to work, and must have no
relatives with a wage in excess of Lei 1000/month/person. If an elderly
person has no or only a very small income, they are eligible for free
residential care. If an elderly person has no or only a very small income,
they are eligible for two free meals a day at a social assistance canteen.
Non-elderly people are also entitled to free residential care and free meals
on the same terms as elderly people. Caseworkers are also empowered to help
fami'.ies in other ways e.g. finding a job for a member of the applicant's
family, placing children into institutional care or one-time cash payments to
meet with exceptional needs. The law at present makes no provision for cash
payments on a regular basis to anyone other than the elderly or handicapped
individuals.
Duration of benefit: in principle no limit.
Administration of Social Assistance
Administration is by a team in each Primaria. Schools for social
workers were closed twenty years ago and are only just re-opening. Thus there
is a shortage of trained caseworkers, and no trained caseworkers younger than
their mid-40s.



54
Annex 1
Page 14 of 17
Decisions about eligibility are made by the social assistance team on
the basis, where relevant, of: the applicant's pension entitlement; a visit
to the applicant's home for verification of their standard of living;; and (in
the case of handicapped people) an assessment of the degree of their handicap
by a doctor specialized in such assessment.
Though the various benefits are established by law, and the system is
national in principle, there can be local variation in the detailed
application of the national norms. The system gives the caseworker
considerable discretion as to the treatment of applicants.
Reform issues
As part of social assistance reform, the MOLSP prepared a White Paper on'
Social Assistance (July 1993) which recomnends the following:
- Extend the child allowance benefit for all children.
- Provide income support to all individuals living below the poverty
line.
- Provide family cash allowance to help foster families.to care children
in their homes who might otherwise be placed in institutionalized care
as it was common in the past.
- Provide emergency benefits to individuals or families that experience
crisis situations.
- Continue to provide meals for the elderly and cash benefits for
handicapped.
- Eliminate gradually the benefits for wives of soldiers, birth
indemnities, and indemnity for mothers with three children and more.
Based on this White Paper, a draft of the new Cash Benefit Law is now
being prepared. Soon it will be submitted for the Parliament's approval.



55
Annex 1
Page 15 of 17
TABL8 1: UNZMPLOYMZNT BENEFIT LZVELS
Duration in labor force       Unemployment Benefit (as percent of last
month's base wage)
Percent   (Minimum benefit, Lei per month)
O - 5 years                 50%   (or 75t of minimum wage, whichever
is higher)
5-15 years                  55t   (or 80t of minimum wage, whichever
is higher)
over 15 years               60%   (or 85t of minimum wage, whichever
is higher)
TABLE 2: THE LEVEL OF SICRN8SS BENFFIT. 1990
Duration in Labor Force              Benefit as percent of
Previous Wage
under 2 years                         50%
2-5 years                             65%
5-8 years                             75%
over 8 years                          s5%



56
Annex 1
Page 16 of 17
TARLI 3a:       LZVZL OP STATE SOCIAL INSURANCE PENSIONS. 1990
WAGES                     GROUP OWE&                GROUP TWO                GROUP THREE&
Lei/month         Pension    Minimum       Pension    Minimum        Pension  Minimum
as % of    Pension       as % of    Pension        as t of  Pension
Previous                 Previous                  Previous
Wage                     Wage                      Wage
2001-2500           70     1500            65       1400             62    1300
2501-3000           65     1750            62       1625             60    1550
3001-3500           62     1950            60       1860             58    1800
3501-4000           60     2170            58       2100             56    2030
over 4000           58     2400            56       2320             54    2240
NOTE: a  Group 1 (heavy and dangerous work) can retire at age 50 after 20 years of work,
Group 2 at age 55 (50 women) after 25 years of work, and Group 3 (normal pensionable age) at
60 (55 women) after 30 years of work.
TAJLE 3:  TiE LEVEL OF 8uPPLUEFZARY PZNBIONS. 1990
Number of Contribution                Supplementary Pension
years                           as percent of previous wage)
0-5                             0 (contributions are returned)
5-10                            8 percent
10-15                           10 percent
15-20                           12 percent
20+                            15 percent



57
Annex
Page 17 of 17
TABLE 4: LZVEL OP FAMILY ALLOWANCZ. 1990
(Lei/mouth)
Wages (Lei/month)
< 2500       2501-3350   >3350
First child           310         260           230
Second child          360         300           270
Third child           440         350           300
Fourth + child        510         410           350



I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
I
I
I
I



ANNEX 2
59                                         Page 1 of 9
TABLE 2.1:  COMPARATIVE SOCIAL INDICATORS
AlperiaArgentin Chile MalaysiPoLwnd TugosLaviPortugaGreace rmenia
Pop   ii) 1989                  24.5    31.9   13.0   17.3  38.1       23.7   10.3   10.0   23.1
GNP per capita CUSS) 1989      2,220   2,160  1,770  2,160  1,760    2,920  4.260  5,340  1,524
11 E A L 7 1/
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000 po 36.5    21.6  22.7  30.1   15.5    15.1   12.2   11.1   15.4
Infant Mortality 1/             69.8   30.4   19.1  22.6   16.2    24.0   13.1   11.9   26.9
Life Expectwncy at Birth (year 64.8   70.9  71.8   69.9  71.7          71.9   74.7   76.6   70.5
Nealth Expenditures/00P - 1964 n.e.   n.a.  n.s.  n.s.   5.2            4.5    6.4    5.3    2.3
Pop per: physician             2,330     374  1,231  1,935    487       549    412    351    554
hospital bed                 380    n.s.   391    400  n.s.        n.a.   n.e.    162    114
Maternl mortality 3/             130      69     46      59     11       22     15      12    1SO
E D U C A T I O N
Gross enrollment ratios
Pril_ry - CX school-age group)   96       110    102    102    101       95    124    104      97
Secondary (       * M)          46      74     76      59     sO       5O     56      90     79
7ertiary: ScIenee/Enginserin    19    27.9  35.6   27.2  23.1    38.3   24.6   27.3          6
Pupil-Teacher ratio: primry       29      20    33       22     16       23     17      23     21
secondary 4/                      19       8   n.s.      26     12     n.C.     12      17     39
Illiteracy rate - 1985 (Z pop. 50.4      4.5    5.6   26.6  n.o.        5.J     16    7.7    eVa
L A B o R   F O RCE
1otal Labor Force (thousards) 5,622  11,415  4,658  6,890 19,607   10,733  4,705  3,137 11,74
2 in Agriculture                31       13   n.a.    42      19       25      21     23   27.9
in Indutry                     27       34   na.      19    42        30     35      33   38.1
Participation Rate 5/:  overal  22.7   35.2   36.4  40.6   51.3    45.4   44.9   38.2   49.6
female                       4.3    19.5  20.5  28.7  45.7    34.8   31.4   20.0   45.6
1/  Infant deaths per 1,000 Live births
2/ Share of health expenditures in CDP for Eastern Europe only - Tymouska, 1986, p 2
3/ UNICEF, State of the World's Children, 1991 (1989 data)
4/  Pupil-teacher ratio for Rmania done not includc staff of enterprises who teach part time
5/ Percentage of population of all ages in the labor force
source:  Social  Indicators of Development, 1990
1990 World PopuLation Data Sheet
Labour Force Statistics, 196S-1988, OECD, 1990
Hecth Care System In 7rasItion, The Serch for Efficiency, OECD, 1990
ROMWNIA 1989: Nin of HeaLth, Education nd National Comission of Statistlics



TABLE 2.2: ROMANIA -                                          AND UNNMPLYM              U ECr. 1992
JAN      IEN    MAIR    APR    MAY   luNe   JU.LY   All".  SEr.  OCT.   NOV.   DEC.    TOTAL AVERAOE
IIm1mc.  pIams.mu'I.a)               394.4   441.4   411.2   543.1   535.1   619.0   719.9  M77      41.7   92.1   916.6  1033.9                      693.5
IIf   pi  .mi Note.                    3.5      4.0     4.4      4.9     5.3     5.3      15      6.9      1.6     3.3     *.9      9.3                 6.3
dig c *n                                      0.4      0.4     0.S      0.4     0.6      0.6     0.5     0.6      0.7     0.6      0.4                 0.0
IlgNab ,fr .t.r .eI, _ M m f md.3   312.8   369.1   420.5   355.3   371.9   420.8   457.6   494.1   519.1   560.3   5S1.3   614.3                      431.3
hnfly t.hIa.                                  33.6    1s.3    65.4    64.3    64.3    63.6    639    63.3    60.6    59.6    59.6                     63.2
Aviag e       (hi)                  42,0  4200.6  430.0  43            6.0    5660.0  560.0  S360S  64006   64.0  7500.0  7500.0                     56a.)
3ing"4e be mew ci,r_  baezs
jimgsh 5w mbb kaiaueklmenlde           440     U55    217         14      21      43       52      44      50       55      59       50                113.5
nflss    corked .d(IImuumma           43.5      47    54.2       115   135.3   151.4   130.1   195.5   244.1   232.5   314.9   332.3                   115.2
o            euIe    he msimi  IN        .X: 56.9                                                         120   157.9   177.7    20                   142.5
I   eelpig (ml 3d)                 511.1  4943.1  54407   619.2  434.7  11131.2  10159.9 13191.0  11671.0  1615.1  17904.3  1500.0  12712S.0   1059311
i   1-.aad.,. (mWi. kiC)            2256.3  2343.9  3103.1  2343.7  2710.2  249J0  3399.4   319.6  4762.6  596.9  5452 2  6S00.9   4S6l.5    336.9
eegs guI'emrislmi hi)           oixN.1  1396.4  1669.5  1331.0  2249.9  2173.9  290.3  2161..  37S2.3  4445.9  3996.3  47 10    3221.2    2140.9
-qa.hIKbewIllalmU.hipk             11331.S  1336.9  13350   900.7   350.1   206.0   313.1   416.1   796.6  1254.3  1219.0  1311.2   10661.3    U11.4
. I _Mdul: .@..dsgs3s~uI pu.mpIausd  0IIO.1  3X1.5  13M.0   *74.S  1310.4   130.7  312.5   371 1    361.3   440.4   4S.4   430.6    74602             611.1
-nIsmal ieiwa                  29.4    32.4    41.0    26.2    40.4    25.3    20.6    I3.3         7.9    10.4    19.3    20.3      231.0      21.9
ki beme lla                                                                                21.1   426.9   303.3   740.3   920.9    2914.1
- dlwg sepladNn l1..                 29.5    10.2    15.6    10.1    13.3    30.2    34.5    21.3    20.1    39.S    43.1    43.2          323.7      21.4
Ieits s.ps.disrnsa (ml. Ik)        91.2   105.4    63.7   101.6    90.7    12.9   171.5   141.9   193.6   226.7   192.7   320.1    1101.0           150.1
4   .ul#R31.ISn)3l3:I1r             3054.3   2M4.3  2336.9  3325.3  22U.5  9233.2  6760.5  9353.4  3935.4  10192.3 32452.1 10999.1   81442.3    636.9
.S,eu.na? hI4ry .4 1 Ime JW    Sl*W Wdefai.
.m:3e.um3rprpWUUill usbi
O~



61                                        ANNEX 2
TABLE 2.- ROMANIA. REVENU  AND                               TIM STATs S         L       ANCE FUND Page 3 of 9
(bilia lhi or puma)
193      13         I0   o If            19925
!                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\  I
lTmaj 3av~m 3m  mu1 Iauuum F_d                     0         4                             4153J
rAmb=  .bm EAi,np                             40A4       44.2       53.2     lei        414.7
Ca.mmhi,nmW           _U                       04         0.1        0.1      0(1        0C
3pL. &sd D.W T
o0 0A                                                   0.0       0L0        0.0        0.1
Tod        _       Sul Ja. F_d                              46.0       59.6      159A      407.
S5 Som  bmm  I30                                         37.1       47.9      119       30L0
51ew   fi                                       33        4.1        5.1       1li       2S.7
mat"aw almnfu. L0                                         2.6        3         9.1 
Thmre  1/                                                                      10.5      27
oom                                             2.1       2.2        L.         u5        10
sumupz=.,EFr                                   2.0      (1.7)      (13)       4.7        7.
__m         m                                  793        0A        30         75.0      73J
S_dmm &MMO                                     10.1        U          u5        7A         4
mJ.y _                                          5.        S.7        6          5.7        W
.  z_F                                          O0         0.0       0.0                   7.
Owc                                            4SA        4.8        4.6        5.3        3.2
sUmLUSmD&%                                     ii       -L7       -10.6        2I        Ij
,* of Sndm  FPam F )
7TO1 apmi=                                                  11A4      3         167.       OLT s
SON 3om1  -mompoms                                        21.         .0      1,3i       151.
sumon  mi                                                   .1 i    LI       10        IUJ
)diny                                                     29 3.6    4.7        1.        39.0
Od0 *                                                      5        243                  52.6
SURPLU=MJRTT                                              -15.7      25U       -17I.0   S 7.0
Aving. y-W i                                                           4.2      I6L0       211.0
sIgw                                           22.3      21.        2A         36.1       67A
_E dw  An  Sm1. Find 2/                          31.5      464        59.6      14t.        7.t
E_-wL=U   as SiNa 1as hu MA Fnds 3/              44.3       2.6                 1s6.6      39.6
sad mu AM                                      G.        7.7                  12 I.7     467.0
Tel Coomimd a             dgS
E      _dm  NWML                              372.6      43.1       331.2    U57        2.740
sham &of SinaIU Em.    Sdol Anmm
i                                              17.A       17.0      26A.                  17.0
DI (bMnm Ad                                     53LA       7K0         367    2.1U.7    4.100
Sham ofsmig. Imue1    S=W
GP .                                   7.          .6       to.         9.1       7.7
1t T_u~w  U           (ap_I   sad  in
2/ Eza,isd_g usud_
3/ &M. -W uppl
say                .   .. . .     . _ .  ...



62                                       ANNE   2
t            _ -Page 4 of 9
TABLE 2.4: ROMANTA - EXPENDM S ON FAMILY BENEFITS AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
1986 - 92
(maln hi or pow)
1956      1939     1990      1"91      199 
Value
IFamay Afowaam                       21S17.1  22349A   =.775.4   31.459    57.014.7
S%Asaau Allwanam                   17.3163   1=4ZA    17.476.5  26.190.2   51.937.6
1ms(x for mn  vk3. chlm            3.660 4. 769        4.n5J    5.0         43*,7
lRh  PM"                             321.6     =2W      273       Is        17m3
linass for soldgw vIs                  9.1      263       15. 5     32.2      46A
Seoa Aanmaa  PMgna                     517.1     4t2.1    36L2   4457.3   10J95.2
Hoem iordoqd                         7A         74.6    111.1     413.7    223.0
Homms for ivalid                    209.7      256.7    427.0   2445.2   3.60.2
1aoaina for mhz. ckjldz.             731        43J      93A       120.4      99.9
Otla acvam                           95.9       37.5    20.0   1677.37    492.1
TOTAL                            3.32.6  233313  23.637.6  36.116.8  67.409.9
Slus of TOWl    _. .in
Famiy A     _owasm                      97.7     9n0        %fA       57.1      34.6
Staniad aRms.                         79.3      7635      73.       72J        77.1
Somet for nut nwut 3. ebUdr           1G4A       20.0     21.1       14.0       7.1
Bisrt g.A                                         1.4      la       0D          0.
3iinu   fer sdim' _                    o 0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1        0.1
Sockl Auuima Prog                        2.2J       2.0      3.6       12.9      1S.4
Homi lfordo ag                         0.4       0        0.5        1.1       3A
Htl   (sor ivalids                     1.2       1.1       1.3       6.3       53
1aSu-  for ihz. Childm                O0         03        OA        03        0.1
Otheruamm                              0.4       0.4       1.0       4.6        6.4
TOTAL                                 100       100      100        100       100
GOo'.i of Elzpmm u
Falvy Awowua_                                       7.0     -2.5       3.1       *1.2
Stadad alowum                                     22       -4.1      49.9      955
Blat for wb wk 3 cilds                           303       4.5        1.6      -5.1
Dinh p                                            23       -9.6     -35.7      -4.
amen forsuidim  rvIva                            37.7    -41.1       47.1      103i
Socal A s mPrep..                                  -6.9      78.3     440.2      123.2
H_os ior the a_d                                 -4.      49.9      270.0     461.5
H_mm for timld                                   .4.      6463     472.2       503
1 am  for ia  abE.                              -54.2     47A        22.9     -17.0
Oils aosm                                        -3._    I42.9      6294       155.9
TOTAL                                            7.0     -2S        31.1      *1.2
* Miay oa Fiama. Busha m



63                                  ANEX- 2-
Page 5 of 9
TABLE 2.5: ROMANIA - INCREASE IN PENSIONERS. 1991 - 1992
f                       .   ~~~~~~~NO. RECIPE}NIS iI
I ENSION FUND                BEGINING           END   P PERCEIN'T
PENSION FUTND                   1991             1992   CRANGE
Main State Fund                         2736.6       3008.2         9.9
Of whicl: Reticu3ut (Full)            13627        1489.4          9.3
Ratiucmmz (Partial)              697.2       733.4          5.2
Disabiliry                       196.2       298.5         52.1
Nm-Apicullnl Cooperatives Fund           112.4        118.4         5.3
Of which: Retirment (Full)              3t.5         40.5          5.2
Rctremm (Partial)                 49.7         S23         5.2
Diability                         11.7         12.3         5.1
AriCuml CoopedVU FUnd                    998.3       1037.2          3.9
Of wich.- Retirewt (Full)                21.1        21.78        36.4
R.eizemn (Panial)                914.3        900.9        -1.5
Disability                        57.3         593S          3.3
Othr Funds                                12.1         13.2          9.1
Of wLich: Retiremen (FUl)                 6.1          6.6          3.2
Retirment (Parual)                 1.9          2.1         10.5
Disbility                          0.2         0.21          5.0
SUppiementr Funds                       3197.6       3457.5          8.1
Of which: State                        2463.2       2723.1         10.5
Non-Ag. Coop.                     33.2         92.9          5.3
Ag. Coop.                        631.1        625.5         -0.9
Other Pensioers                    10.1         11.0         8.9
Source: MOLcSP



64                                        AM= 2
Page 6 of 9
TABLE 2.6:  U  DiANIA   of        OF nEWLYE
!~~~~~90                  1960    1935      1"99
ttoilor percent)
-     f0-g 190         9m      1999
Aericultu. wd Potry                             49.3    29.5    28.9        7.9
Irntry                                          23.I    35.5    37.1    36.1
Cortruction                                      7.5      3.3      7.4      7.0
TraPort                                          3.6      6.1      6.0      6.2
Telecoa mi%letivms                               0.6      0.5      0.5       .
Trade and fnwancil srvmie                        4.6      6.3      6.1      6.3
Nhniceipl servies                                3.1      3.5      4.1      4.9
EAaatfon, cutture and arts                       3.7      4.2      3.9      3.4
Nostth core, aocal security. phyisical culttu    2.3      2.7      2.7      2.7
Scilnce &W scientific  service                   0.5      1.0      1.3      1.3
Achinistration                                   0.7      0.6      0.5      0.5
other                                            0.3      1.0      1.2      1.1
Total                                          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Total mer                                    9,575.0 10,350.1 1055".1 10,945.7
Sources  Matlarl Coinien of Statistics



65                    - -  - -         ANEX 2
Page 7 of 9
TALE 2.7: ROPANIA - PIULIC UCOR EMPLOWIENT BY ECTOR
(thouemrd or inrcent)
Noles              F_Los            Total          FmLe
Sector                        No.      Sare        No.  Shre        mo.   Share   Reprmntat iv
Index
Truwport                     535,782   11.3      75,220   2.4    611,002    7.8      0.3
Construction                 519,076   11.0      76,104   2.4    595,180    7.6      0.3
Forestry                      30,575    0.7       8,753   0.3     39,328    0.5      0.6
Agricutture                  477,45   10.1    151,8s   4.9    629,333    5.0         0.6
Adinistration                 31.206    0.7      21,568   0.7     52,774    0.7      1.0
Irjntry                    2,342,264   49.5  1,646,738  S2.7  3,969,002   50.8       1.0
Other                        139,192    2.9    101,201   3.2    240,393    3.1       1.1
Municiptl Srrvices           129,97?6    2.      96,564   3.2    228,540    2.9      1.1
Science end scientific service  65,071    1.4    55,155   1.5    120,226    1.5      1.2
Cut t  end Arts               15,369    0.3      14,576   O.S     29,945    0.4      1.2
telecammicationr              37,349    0.8      42,654   1.4     80,003    1.0      1.3
trade                        232,546    4.9    375,046  12.0    607,892    7.7       1.5
Finne ad insurance             7,460    0.2      14,S22   0.5     21,98      0.3     1.6
Education                     99,372    2.1    229,496   7.3    328,"3    4.2        1.8
Public health nd socisl  asri   68,162    1.4    216,243   6.9    284,405    3.6     1.9
Totat                      4,731,145   100.0  3,127,725  100.0  7,358,873  100.0
Mote: The Representation Index wasures the relative distribution of fst_o
epltym.nt in rlotation to the overall distribution of aloym nt.
Thes dots et clue cooperative nd privet. sector oployment.
Source: National Comnssion of Statistics



66                           ANNEX 2
rage 8 o f 9
TABLZ 2.8a ROHANIA - AVERaGE NZT MONTILY SALARY
PMELTC SECTOR 1985 TO 1989
Net         Composite             Real
monthly         Consumer              Net
Salary            Price             Wage
Index            Index
1985       2,827             100.0            100.0
1986       2,855             100.7            100.3
1987       2,872            101.9              99.7
1988       2,946             104.S             99.7
1989       3,063             105.4            102.8
Note: Cooperatives and private sector are excluded.
Source: IMP, Romaia: Recent Reonomic
Develoyments, (1990)



67
Page 9 of 9
TAUE 2.9: R3AIAN1  - NET NOTNLY AVERASE
Wm BY SCTOR, 1960-89 V
(101)
1960    1970    190       W9s    198       1967    196       1969
IfL1trY                       U9    1,28   2,307   2,524   2,86    2,3           2,946    ,037
Construction                   W2    1,364   2,494   3,288   3,385    3,50m   3,57W   3.697
Agriculture                   m      1,205    2,160   2.752   2,790    2,7"    2.517    2,93
Forestry                      601    1,063    1,9f4    2,345   2,503    2,418   2440    2,617
Traport                       576   1,375    2,267   2,935   3,000    3,038   3,062    3,195
TolScaLr1c5tiSn5              752   1,135   2,011    2,570   2,575    2,621    2,679    2,816
Trade                         697   1,166    1.63   2,419   2,425    2,435   2,479    2,629
Ns.micfpal services
housing, ww other
nardJctive service.         742   1,136    1,916   2,647   2,691    2,707   2,773    2,95
Educaction, culture,
wEd art                     619   1,29f   .2,135   2,794   2,812    2,535    2,n74   2,900
Science el d scientific
servien                     935   1,413    2,420   3,040   3,076    3,131    3,123    3,253
Phltc helth, social
aistwace, and
physical culture            760   1,215   2,009   2,682   2,679    2,675   2.7Z5    2,670
TOTAL ECNONW                  802   1,29    2,235    2,5u2          2,05  2,672   2,946   3.0&S
Index of Resl Wags            176      253      390      373     371       364     3        37'
C1950.100)
1/  Excluding military pesonnl, staff of pshlic orognizatios  nd nridepedot lSor.
Net r_seratfan equals _ae, slaries, an bomuus, aims tax an the
reamsrtlon fund a  social insrance cntributiom
Source: National Statistics Cmmission



68



69                          Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
a  0   K   A   K   Z  A
~NZ,T 01' LANOM am                    N=BTRY or VZNANCZ
EKOCZAZ. WROTZCTZof
To   Mr. *   WZLVR.  P T
Vice President
Zurape ad Central Asia
3ear Ur.  hlvlwit.,
1. Romania seeks a loan in support of an Employment and
Social Protection Project. The loan will support investments to
the following main objectives of the Project
- reduction in unemployment ;
- productivity growth ;
- assistance to the most d.3advantaged categories of
populat:,rin that are threatened by poverty during and
after trnwisition tc market economy ;
- improve efficiency and viability of employment and
social protection programs.
The main policy actions already undertaken by the GOR and
to be undertaken over the duration oi the project to insure the
project objectives are described in this Pollay Letter.



70                          Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
X. * ZWAOUC?ZOn
2.  Four years ago, Romania began the transition to a
democracy and a market economy. Much has been achieved since
then. Fundamental changes have been made in the role of the state
in the economy. Prices and wages have been liberalized, property
has been privatized, the tax system has been reformed and the tax
burden on entreprises curtailed, and actions have been taken to
develop factor markets and the institutions that support them.
All of these actions have been taken in the face of a steadily
worsening external environment and a sharp decline in production
and income
3.   The social costs of the transition have been high. The
fall in GDP has affected the incomes of virtually all households.
In July 1993, real wages had fallen 34,6 % since October 1990,
and registered unemployment became 9 % of the active population.
The fiscal squeeze has required a lowering of transfers from
G6vernment to households. Pension expenditures as a share of GDP
have fallen from 7,2 % in 1990 la 6,4 % in 1992, and the average
real pension in the main state scheme covering 72 % of pensioners
has fallen 37,2 % over the same period.
4.   The GOR  considers  an effective  system of  social
protection to be an essential part of the transition program. In
the face of increasing needs and declining resources, the GOR has
sought to increase the targeting of existing programs so as not
to waste resources, that are already limited,and to introduce
new, cost-efective programs to meet new needs. Since 1990, the
Government has taken the following steps :
(a)  to assist those unemployed by the restructuring,
an unemployment fund was created in 1991, which
provides  benefits  and  supports  pro-active
employment programs (i.e. training and retraining
of the unemployed, etc.) ;
(b)  to improve the efficiency of administration of
short-term  benefits   (mainly  the  temporary
disability   leave)   and  reduce  fraud,   the
responsability of the first ten days of sick
leave was transfered from the social insurance to
the firm in April, 1992 ;
(c)  to   assist   those   negatively   affected   by
transition, increased funding was provided for
community social assistance programs such as
social canteens and occasional benefits ;



71
Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
(d) to strengthen and improve the targeting of
support for families with children, a single,
universal child allowance payment, covering all
children in Romania was introduced, replacing the
previous system of payments and credits, which
had covered only certain categories of childxen
and had also provided for 20 % reduction in the
income tax to people with children ; two million
more children are thus covered now, at a lower
cost ;
(e) to reduce institutionalization of children under
special circumstances, a number of policies
initiatives have been taken including a foster
familly allowance which supplements the child
allowance ;
(f) to improve responsiveness and flexibility of the
social assistance system, decentralization of
administration has begun.
During the process of loan preparation, the GOR agreed
with the World Bank on a number of additional policy actions ao
support the objectives of the project. These are d.iascribed below.
U * UWLOTDT am TRAZEIN
5.  In addition to the unemployment benefit mentioned
above  (para.4(a)), the Government. as part of it.;
program approved by Parliament in March 1993, aims to
improve employment and training opportunities by the
following policy measures :
(a)  retrainimg adults in order to be reintegrated
into the work force ;
(b)  training  y:.ng  men  and  women  for  jobs  or
professiort% in demand on labour market ;
(c)  improving professional training in accordance
with the highest technological level, with modera
methods of organization and administration.
6.   Since the actions needed to implement these policy
measures in the proposed project do not require any additional
legislation, the Government has already taken these actions. For



Annex 3
72                           Page 4 of 7
example, in accordance with the Government policy of promoting
cooperation among the social partners, a tri-partite National
Training Board, which aims to improve the responsiveness of
training to the rapidly evolving labour market, has been
established with representation from private and public
employers, workers' representatives and Government ministries.
Likewise, a protocol has been signed between the Ministry of
Labour and Social Protection and the Kinistry of Education to
improve occupational counseling and information to be made
available to students and workers through the project. These two
ministries also have signed another protocol as part of the Basic
Education Reform Project (to be financed in part by a World Bank
Loan) for establishment of a Council for Occupational Standards
and Assessments, which also improve training by making it more
responsive to labour market demand through the participation of
employers
ZZZ. ROCZAL 1ILO =CN
Mmocil al iut-
7.   The GOR has reformed the social assistance system to
improve targeting by providing a means-tested cash benefit that
will bring the poor famillies to a minimum guaranteed income
level. Towards this goal, the following activities have been
completed :
(a) A White Paper on Social Assistance was prepared
by a team from the Direction of Social Assistance
and was published in Romania in June, 1993. The
White Paper reviews Romania's present system of
social assistance, makes a critical assessment of
it and proposes one that suits the needs of the
transition to a market economy.Tihe recomended
option provided a system of integrated cash
benefits aimed at alleviating poverty that is
financially viable in Romania. This would be
complemented by community      based    social
services   aimed  at  helping   famillies   and
individuals in crisis. The White Paper was widely
distributed in the media, other agencies and the
general public. Newspaper articles, television
and radio programs have mentioned the White Paper
and a broad debate has been initiated on the
policy issues raised in the paper. The White
Paper was discussed with staff of district social
assistance offices in June, 1993.



7 3               \         Annex 3
Page 5 of 7
(b)  A draft creating the new cash benefit will be
completed and will be submitted to Parliament for
approval, in November 1993. The Law would
abrogate untargeted benefits and proposes a
means-tested cash benefit aimed st famillies
under a minimum income level, as mentioned in
paragraph 7 (b). Determination of eligibility
will depend on the household income based on
income certificates and asset test and a set-
aside wage will be included so to encourage
working of social assistance beneficiaries.
Roughly 10 % of households are expected to be
eligible for the new cash benefit, and the system
is expected to cost about 1 % of GDP annually in
recurrent costs.
(c) A plan to implement the new cash benefit system
will be developed
Social Security Reform
8.   In 1989, Romania's social security system contained
over ten different funds. Contribution rates differed
by sector, benefits by occupation, with no portability
between  funds.  The  structure  of  benefits  was
inequitable, administration inefficient, and the whole
system unaf fordable. The Government's initial reaction
to the needs to shed labour in state entreprises was
to lower the already low retirement age. This influx
of retirees, combined with the collapse of the
revenues to the agricultural pension system during the
land reform period, provoked a system crisis. Initial
steps were taken in 1991-1992 to improve the
systems'cash flow position and safeguard reserves,
reduce administrative duplication and improve the
equity of the system. At the same time, the GOR agreed
to prepare a comprehensive reform program, using funds
from the TA/Critical Imports Loan to contract foreign
expertize as needed.
9.   This reform is now being prepared. By the end of
October 1993,the GOR willhave issued its White Paper on Social
Insurance, detailing the current situation and the reforms to be
undertaken to create a financially sustainable, equitable,
efficient system of public social  insurance which provides
adequate income security and, in doing so, effectively prevented
poverty, especially among the elderly.
10. The proposed reform includes eight actions, to be
implemented over the period 1994-1997



Annex .3
Page 6 of 7
(a)   tif ication - Romania will have "one, mandatory
public system with an integrated administration
and full portability of benefits across sectors
and occupations ;
(b)  XquLtable Rienfit structure - there will be a
minimum social benef it, and all other benefits
will be based on contributions in an equitable
manner. To achieve this goal, the retirement age
increased and equalized between men and women, as
will retirement ages across sectors with the
exception of roughly 10-15 % of the labour force
working in exceptionally arduous conditions ;
(C)  Znczased incentives for  1abou  paticipation -
once the standard retirement age and years of
pension have been reached, pensions will increase
by about 1,5-2 % per year of service to increase
incentives to continue working and contributing;
(d)  Coaplamentary  prlvat,  pnsions  - options  to
introduce  the  regulatory  and  institutional
structure for a system of private pensions,
complementary to the public system, will be
considered ;
(e)  zndfxatiou  of bnefits, *eazixae to calculate
pension  bass  - to  reduce  uncertainty,  thus
improving the microeconomic  efficiency of the
system,   formal  rules  guaranteeing  partial
indexation of pensions to price changes and
indexing earnings for pension baLse calculation to
the average wage will be adopted. The number of
base years for pension calculation will gradually
be extended to improve equity ;
(f) Fiancina  -  to  increase   transparency,  all
contributions will be re-assessed on both
employers and employees in the state sector
equally. The special tax on agro-enterprises
earnmarked for pension benefits will be
abrogated. Transparency will also be increased
by transferring the financing of all non-
insurance benefits to the state budget. To
promote the development of pension systems and
increase the targeting of the public system, a
ceiling on contributions (employees only) and
benefits will be introduced.



75                         Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
(g) Coasistent tax treatuent - parallel to the
introduction of the global income tax, a
consistent tax treatment for contributions and
payments, which discourages fraud and improves
equity, will be introduced. The option of making
payments taxable and contributions tax-exempt is
being considered ;
(h) a&ninistration - through the creation of an
independent agency, contribution and benefit
administration will be streamlined to improve
client service, reduce the administrative burden
on the firm, and incease efficiency.
11.  By October  1993,  the GOR will have developed a
coherent and comprehensive legislative strategy, based
on the proposals included in the White Paper on Social
Insurance. By the end of 1993, the draft law on the
new system of Social Insurance will have been
submitted to Parliament.
Sincerely,
MISBTER OF STJTE                     MXNISTER OF STJaT
Minister of        and Social          Minister of         ,
Dan Miea Sopscu                           i 



76



77
Page 1 of 7
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE WHITE PAPER
This report describes the current social assistance system in Romania,
focusing on cash benefits, in-kind assistance and the role of the Ministry of
Labor and Social Protection, the primary government agency responsible for
social assistance. The report identifies major weaknesses of the existing
system and presents the rationale for changing the existing structure of
social assistance benefits in Romania. Several options are assessed and
recounendations are made on how to restructure the system of income suppert
and social services to better meet the needs of households that are
experiencing severe difficulties from unemployment, poverty and the social
dislocation that have developed from the establishment of a market economy.
Section I of the report describes the existing system of social
assistance in Romania. The assistance includes a range of specific cash
benefits, in-kind services and selected tax exemptions, and subsidiew for
certain categories of vulnerable individuals in specified situations as well
as institutional care for children and adults. These existing cash benefits to
families and individuals under a variety of prescribed circumstances include:
state children's allowance, benefits for mothers of three or more children,
birth indemnity, support allowance after unemployment insurance has run out,
benefit for military wives, occasional benefits for pensioners, death
allowance,and quarterly payments for individuals unable to work.
The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP) provides a variety
of social assistance and social insurance benefits to children and families,
the unemployed, the handicapped and pensioners. Many other ministries and
agencies at the central level of government also have responsibility for the
provision of the social assistance programs. Others include the State
Secretariat for the Randicapped, the Ministry of Education and Science, the
Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Central Commission for the
Protection of Minors (within MOLSP), the Romanian Committee for Adoptions, the
Inter-Ministerial Committee for the Coordination of Humanitarian Programs for
Romania, and the Support Committee for Child Protection institutions.
In addition, a,: he local level, the county councils, the Mayor's
Offices and Tutelary Authorities have certain respornsibilities in the
provision of these social assistance programs.
Although the goals of the social asuistance system have changed since
1989, the legal framework, organization, and financing of benefits and
supports have remained relatively unchanged from the previous period. Prior to
1989 the objectives of social assistance were:
- -   To increase the numbers of births and ultimately the size of the
workforce;
--    To provide a minimum level of care to former workers (pensioners
and the elderly) and sick persons;



78
Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
- -    To provide a minimal level of sustenance for persons who were
judged to be incapable of working due to invalidity; and
- -    To provide institutional care for chronically ill and handicapped
adults and sick, handicapped or abazdoned children.
The goals of the social assistance system that are now evolving are:
- -    To reestablish the family am a primary focus of social welfare
policy. This orientation reflects a return to the belief in the
family's role as the most important unit for raising children and
fostering societal values.
--    To assure that all members of the society have the financial,
health, educational, and social resources to have at least a
minimally adequate standard of living. The Romanian Constitution,
articles 43-46, states that the government has the responsibility
to ensure an adequate standard of living for each person in the
society.
- -    To promote the raising of children within a child's biological
family. When families are experiencing difficulties, whenever
feasible, the child should be supported within the family rather
than placed in an institution. When a family is experiencing
difficulties, efforts would be focused on helping the family
rather then removing the child.
Section II of the report identifies major deficiencies of the current
social assistance system and concludes that change is necessary. First, many
vulnerable, at risk individuals and families are not eligible for the
assistance they need. These include individuals who are not working in public
enterprises and individuals who do not receive benefits to which they are
entitled because current budget allocations have been exhausted. Still others
receive intermittent assistance that provides income below a minimum standard.
Second, the current system wastes public funding. Public expenditures
are inappropriately exhausted through excessive reliance on iznstitutional
placement of children, and to a lesser extent the elderly despite the fact
that institutional care is the most costly means of intervention. In addition.
government resources for social assistance are not used in ways that maximize
their impact. For example, current cash benefits are not targeted on
individuals and families in the greatest need.
And third, government funding promotes policies that no longer reflect
societal goals. A large share of the government's social assistance cash
benefits, for example, continues to be used to encourage large familiea.
Similarly, a major share of government'a social assistance resources are used
to maintain children in institutions rather than to reinforce familiea'
ability to care for their children at home using community-baxed assistance.
These problems have created widespread support within Romania to reform



79
Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
the social assistance system. The goal of reform is to create the legal,
administrative and organizational framework, as well as the operational
mechbanims, to meet the economic and social needs of all households living in
poverty. The reforms are both to provide assistance which is not currently
provided by other components of the social protection system and to utilize
society's resources more effectively.
Options for Reform of Cash Benefits
Section III presents three options to reform the cash benefit prog.cams
in Romania. These are:
1)    Continuation of the existina. untaraeted cateaorical benefit structure
This option would leave the current system unchanged. Maintaining the
current social assistance system is not recosmended because it would leave the
major problem  identified in section 11 unchanged with potentially dire social
consequences for Romania. Problems of extreme poverty and the resulting social
decay and societal instability would be unaddressed at the sane time t2iat
limited government resources were not used optimally. This approach would
perpetuate a system in which there is a rapidly growing unmet need for
assistance while precious resources are wasted.
2)    Add a cas  benefit f   the poor to the existinc. cateaorical benefits
This approach would retain the existing, categorical benefit structure
but would add a new  enef it targeted on the poor. This option is judged to be
undesirable because it too would leave many of the major problems of the
existing system unchanged. Further, this option creates two additional
problems making it an infeasible choice. First, there would be one more
benefit program to administer with a separate administrative structure. .iis
would be costly and duplicative. And more important, thet addition of the.
benefit program for the poor would add additional costs to the social
assistance system without producing any savings from the consolidation of
untargeted programs.
3)    Consolidate many of the existina  categorical benefits and establ1
benefit taraeted on the poor
Such a reform would include two major components:
- -    Income support: to provide a minimum guaranteed income, below
which a household would be living in poverty; and to cons. .1ate
and eliminate several of the existing categorical benefit programs
to target and improve assistance.
Social services: to assist a person or family who cannot carry out
basic functions because of a crisis, overwhelming difficulties or
other severe problems.



80
Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
This approach would remedy the major problem. of the existing system
while beginning to addr s the emrging national social policy directions. A
minimum income standard would be set that is both socially acceptable and
fiscally feasible. Households would be entitled to receive this level of
finacial assistance which might vary in different geographical regions,
depending on the local conditions and available resources. Receipt of cash
benefits would be linked to an expanded program to enable individuals who can
work to be trained for the work force and to find employment.
The social service component would develop a comuunity-based network of
social services to assist families when they are beginning to experience
difficulties. Such an approach would reduce the need for out of home
placements of children, strengthen families, ability to function and contain
government expenditures for institutional placements.
Xt is recommended that the most feasible course for Romania to pursue at
this time is option 3--the creation of a social assistance systea that is
targeted to provide financial assistance to the poor and social sorvices and
other supports to households experiencing difficulties. Thlis approach should
begin as a series of pilot projects to test its feasibility and determine its
cost. It should then be modified as needed and phased in across the country.
It is proposed that a new social assistance system be created by
retaining certain benefits; eliminating those benefits which are either
untargeted, inefficient or not focused on current policy goals; consolidating
other benefits for ease of administration and efficiency; and adding a new
benefit for households living in poverty. It is proposed that the new social
assistance system include the following cash and in-kind benefits.
1.    A Children's Allowance granted to All ChlIdren. This benefit would
be provided to all families for each child under the age of 19.
The benefit recognizes that all families need assistance in caring
for their children, regardless of their income. The benefit
expresses the society's support for the institution of the family.
2)    Income Support to Assist All Individuals Living Below the Poverty
Line. These benefits would be provided until the person is able to
secure enough income through work to no longer l$ive below the
poverty line. The benefit should ensure that the person or family
will have a sufficient income to live at or above the poverty line
and have at least a minimum standard of living.
3)    Poster Family Cash Allowance. This benefit would help foster
families care for children in their homes who might otherwise need
to be placed in an institution.
4)    Occasional Cash lef gits for Inividuals and Families- These
benefits would assist individuals and families who experience a
crisis or an emergency situation which they could not handle with
their resources alone. In many but not all of these situations a



Annex4
Page 5 of 7
child or other individual would be at risk of abandonment,
homelessness, or out-of-home placement (institutionalization or
family foster care).
5)   Koals for the Elderly. The frail elderly who are unable to leave
their homes would be entitled to have meals delivered to their
home. Canteens would provide food to the elderly who can get to
the canteen regularly. People will pay for the food on a sliding
scale.
6)    Cash benefits for the handicapped. These benefits would provide
financial assistance to the handicapped and their families to help
them better handle the special needs of these individuals.
Handicapped individuals who are not receiving a disability pnsimOL
would be eligible to receive the benefit.
7)    Denefits for Wives of Soldiers. Theme benefits would continue but
would not be indexed to the cost of living. Eventually the income
support cash benefit would provide the primary help to soldiers
wives in need of financial assistance.
8)    Birth Zndemnity. This benefit would continue but would not be
indexed to the cost of living. Eventually it would be a less
significant benefit to families.
The means-tested social assistance benefit for the unemployed that is
currently pro-ided after unemployment benefits run out would be consolidated
into the new income support cash benefit for families living below a poverty
level. That is, when unemployment benefits run out, families will be eligible
to receive the income support for families in poverty.
Administrative Structure to Deliver tht Income Support
and Cash Benefit ProQrams
There are three principal options for the administration of the new
program: 1) continue to use the current administrative structure, 2) use
separate administration for each categorical program, and 3) develop an
integrated benefits program with decentralized eligibility determination and
centralized administration and distribution. Each of these options is assessed
in the Report and Option 3 is recommended.
Under this option, individuals are certified for most social assistance
benefits in the same decentralized community-based office, most likely the
Mayor' s Office. Cash benefit payments however are administered centrally
(either through the local Directorate of Social Assistance or by the central
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection).
Given the limited resources available and the availability of existing
administrative structures  the most feasible approach for administering the



92
Page 6 of 7
new cash benefit programs in Romania appears to be Option 3, to decentralize
eligibility dete-  nations to local commnuities by relying on existing
adAmniutrative st ucture. This would entail decentralizing eligibility
determinations to the mayors' offices in local towns and cities. They would be
the primary point of contact for families seeking cash benefits, including the
state childrens allowance, the Income Support for Families in Poverty, the
Occasional Benefits, the Birth IndAmnity and Foster Family Payments. The
Tutelary Authorities witbin the mayors offices would conduct the social
inquiries where necessary. The data gathered or recotmmendations for benefits
made by the mayors' offices would be forwarded to the Directorate of Social
Assistance of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection for review and a
final determination.1  Payments to families could be made by the Directorate
of Social Assistance of the Ministry or centrally by the Ministry of Labor end
Social Protection.
This approach has the advantage of providing local decision-making for
benefits, with review and oversight by the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection. The approach would like convenient for clients who would have one
location within their community in which all cash benefits would be available.
Fundina the New System
Funding for the cash benefit program for the poor would be from the
national government because issues related to poverty are a national
responsibility, requiring national remedies. Funding might come from three
principal sources: fundA from existing benefit programs that wculd be
eliminated or consolidated, the elimination of tax exmptions, and funds that
would have to be allocated.
In 1992 94.5 billion lei were spent on tax credits for families with
children. This represents 1.6 percent of Romania' s Gross Domestic Product in
1992 of 5.8 trillion lei.
Based on the 1992 e;penditure level for programs that would be
eliminated, it is estimated that the savings from the consolidation or
elimination of current programs would be 8.4 billion lei, about 0.14 percent
of GDP.
Estimates of the cost of the cash benefit programs would have to be
developed before determining the amount of new funding that would have to be
allocated for the program.
Option for Reform of Social Services
1 This is true except for Occasional Benefits for which final decisions
and payments will be made by the Mayor's Office.



83
Armex 4
Page 7 of 7
The second major reform that is proposed iu to provide social services
to households experiencing severe difficulties or crises. Emergency social
assistance is needed for families during periods of crisis when children or
other members of the household are at risk of harm or abandonment.
One option to provide needed services would create cauimity-based
wilti-service centers in which eligibility for services would be conducted and
needed services would be available. Although this option is discussed, further
research and elaboration will be needed to determine if such an approach is
appropriate to implement in Romania at this time, given the country's
resources and level of need.
This approach would establish in local communities a multi-service
center in which eligibility would be established for available social
services, and some services themselves might be available. Such centers would
assist families during the normal course of their lives as well as during
crises. These centers are referred to as locations for "one stop shopping for
services. 
The social service program could provide, depending on the family's
needs: assistance in caring for a new born, alcohol and substance abuse
programs, domestic violence programs, parent aids and parent training,
teaching parents skills to cope with their problems, day care, advocacy on
behalf of the client, help with finding housing, information on available
services, and referring the families to other agencies (for example, the
unemployment office, health services, or the mayor's office.)
The elderly are also a group who need the assistance of community-based
social service centers. One option is for the MOLSP to develop a program which
could provide community-based supports for elderly people who are at risk of
harm in their homes or are at risk of being institutionalized. These support
centers might be associated with, or separate from, the community-based family
support centers.
Next St=D
Moving forward with proposed changes to the social assistance system
will require establishing the eligibility criteria; determining the poverty
threshold and benefit levels; working out the necessary legal, organizational,
and administrative framework to create the cash benefit program; enacting the
needed legislative changes and establishing a phased implementation plan which
specifies how existing programs would be phased out as the new benefit is
phased in and how the program will be administratively established across the
country.
The next step on the proposal for a network of social service supports
include review of alternative program models, a study of the feasibility of
implementing a social service program in Romania at this time, and pilot
testing of one or several models in various parts of the country.



84



85
Anmex 
Page 1 of 8
SOCIAL INSURANCE WHITE PAPER
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Social policies and social protection are integral parts of Romania's reform strategy, closely
lined to the economic and political developments necessary to support the restuturing of
the national economy.
The social program of the Government of Romania for 1993-96 takes into account not
only immediate demands but also future needs, projected on the basis of likely demographic
trends and the prospects for technological development and economic growth. In developing
the program and setting goals for social policy and social protection, the Government took as
its starting point the provisions of the Romanian constitution addressing social needs and
risks and undamental human rights, and a number of other principles set forth in
international regulations and recommendations.
Between 1990 and 1992 the Govemment concentrated mainly on short-term measures
that were reparative or intended to keep social programs operating at a certain level. But
since 1992-and particularly since 1993-the Government has directed its efforts toward.
longer-term goals.
Social protection, defined as the entire set of actions taken by society to prevent
alleviate, or eliminate the effects on living standards of 'scial risks," is important in
democratic societies and a priority in the Government's social sector reform strateg. .he
social insurance and pension system-the main element of social procection in Romana-and
its problems have been a constant concern of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection.
Through a wide range of measures aimed at making the system function better, redressing
past wrongs, and ensuring that the system remains financially solvcrt without being
essentially changed, the ministry demonstrated its principles for coverge under the system
and the system's planned organizational and administrative structur.
Romania began its transition to a market economy almost four years ago, undergoing
a painful, comprehensive process of reform during which social developments and social



Annex 5
Page 2 of 8
costs have often been unpredictable. Now the process of reform must start in tie social
security and pension system, too, to ensure that over the medium and long term the system is
organized and run according to the new principles Romania is adopting.
A fir step was to daft and publish this white paper on the social insuce sysm
of Romania, consistent with the Economic and Social Reform Strategy of the Government
Program for 1993-96. This paper challenges the public appraisal and discussion-at all
levels-of the proposed reforms of the social security and pension systm, with the aim of
contibuting to the proposals and supportig the daftig of the necesry laws and the
purposeful, well-grounded implementation of the new system. The paper makes
recommendations for the reform of Romania's social protection system-one of the world's
most comprehensive-and seeks to substatiate them through analysis of the evolution of
social security systems in other countries and the development of Romania's own social
insurance and pension system.
The introductory chapter briefly surveys the histoxy of social security systems from
their modem beginnings in Chancellor Bismarck's Germany to their development and
improvement in the post-World War II Britain of William Beveridge. The purpose of the
survey is to trace the evolution of the concepts social security and social insurmce as they
are currently understood by the international community.
A survey classifying the stages-from young to mature-that redistbutive social
insurance systems pass through places Romania's among the mature systems. Ihis
classification scheme is helpful not only because it highlights the predictable course of
different kinds of systems but also because Romania can learn lessons from other countris in
its group. An important lesson of the survey is that short- and medium-term measures to
reform the social insurne and pension system must be initiated now in order to avoid the
painful situations currendy confronting industial countries with mature systems. In fact, a
picture of the reforms-completed or in progress-in the industrial counties as well as in
Central and East Europen countries shows that the reform of Romania's social insurance
and pension system is necessary not only because of the country's transition from a cenally



87                            Annex S
Page 3 of 8
planned to a market economy, but also because of sociodemographic developments, the need
for steadily balanced finances, and the goal of achieving fair distnbution between and within
generations over the medium and long term.
Chapter 2 provides detailed information on the evolution of Romania's social
insurance and pension system from its beginnings to the present day and on the system's
current organization and administration. In descnbing the main goals and characteristics of
the system as it passed through different stages of development, the chapter emphasizes the
period 1944-89, comparing it with the period since 1989, when significant changes were
made to the system to sustain it during the early stages of the transition to a market
economy.
The chapter discusses the social insurance and pension system in detail, focusing on
its legal and organizational framework and on the sources of revenue for its components,
which include the state social insurance system, farmers' social insurance system,
supplementary pension system, and independent social insurance systems. It also gives a
detailed description of the social insurance benefits, from base pensions under the state
system to noncontributory benefits with a reparative element that have been granted to
Revolution heroes or wounded, or to people persecuted under the communist dictatorship for
their political beliefs.
To give an idea of the place and role of the social insurance and pension system in
the macroeconomy, the chapter gives the expenditure on different benefits as a share of gross
domestic product (GDP), along with the trends over the past 12 years and projections for the
future. These figures are contrasted with pensions as a percentage of GDP for couraras of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Chapter 2 rds &with
a brief analysis of the main expenditure items of Romania's state pension system, its most
representative social insurance and pension system.
Efficient social protection should be closely linked with the development of Romania's
economic system. It is for this reason that chapter 3 addresses the Romania economy.
Starting with a general consideration of the stabilization and macroeconomic reform efforts



88
Annex S
Page 4 of 8
that Romania began in 1991 during an eonomic slump, the chapter surveys macroecono
developments over the past few years and assesses their impact It briefly analyzes the
structural reforms that were or are bein  mplemented-liberalization of prices and trade,
refrm of the banking system, r        and privtion of entrpris-to relate the
proposed social msurnce and pension system reforms to economic developments. The
anlys highlights a number of sectoral problems as well as their plamed solutions under the
Govnmu's economic and social reform strategy.
The chapter also gives forecat of macroeconom  developments over the medium
term; these predict a positive growth in the productive sectr beginning in 1995, bringing
wit it a rise in exports and a decline in the budget deficit to about I percet of GDP by the
end of the decade. These macreonomc projections allow a more realistic assessment of the
prospets for succes of Romania's proposed social insurance and pension system reforms
and help in judging how the reforms should be paced.
Chapter 4 reviews Romania's curent social insurance and pension system to identify
the organzational and operationl aspects that should be reformed during and after the
transition to a market economy. The main conclusions of the review are as follows:
0-ne present system is far too diversified and complex. The existence of several
independent systems plus the supplemey pension scheme incurs avoidable administrative
costs and results in inequitable treatment of pensioners. The multiplicity of pension schemes
also hinders the movement of labor between locations and even between occupations; such
mobility is essental for the proper fucioning of a market economy.
* In the light of Romania's present and fuure economic conditions and projected
demographic trends, the country's low standard retrement ages cannot be justified. Its
retrement ages are below those in the vast majority of the industial economies, which have
been compelled to rise them. Nor can the lower retrement age for women than for men be
just}fied. Also adding avoidable costs in pensions-and wasti  potential productive
resources-is the lack of services for rehabilitation and retraining of the disabled.



89                             Annx S
Page 5 of 8
* The current method of calculating pensions has several shortcomings. The practice
of limiting the camnings base used in the calclation to the income eamed in the five years
prior to retirement invites abuse, and the potential for such abuse will increase as small
private frms increse in mmber. At the same time, the absence of a ceiling on pensionable
income can lead m a transitonal economy to large variations in the sze of public pensions.
And the decreasing annual accrual factors used after 15 years of service crate a disincentive
to continue working beyond the standard retirement age.
* Under the current rapid inflation, the lack of automatic indexation of pensions
leaves pensioners' income dependent on administative discretion.
* The tax exemption of all pensions favors those receivirR large pensions and
provides an incentive for early retirement.
* That employers pay most of the social insurance contribution, with employees
contributing only 3 percent to the supplementary pension fund, crates an impression that
pensions are an obligation of the state, not a benefit to which people are entitled because of
the contributions they make during their working lives.
- Those responsible for preparing and implementing the social insurmnce budget lack
modem data-processing equipment and up-to-date information, both of which are esentl for
flexible decisionmaking in an unstable economic climate.
X The supplementary pension system, now regarded as an extension of the state
pension system, no longer fulfills its original function as an instument to insure its
members' personal income. Because of rapid inflation and a decision to extend a credit to the
farmers' pension system, the supplementary pension fund has been almost entirely
decapitalized before it could reach maturity.
* Temporary disability benefits, because they are tax-free, can provide employees
eligible for the highest benefit rates (those with more than eight years of service) higher
incomes during medical leave than when they report to work, creating a disincentive for
working. The four different benefit rates for medical leave, which corespond to the length
of employees' service, cannot be justified.



90                            Armez 5
Page 6 of 8
0 The current organizational and administdve Systems for social insurance and
pension benefits are poorly designed, with administative and policy functions inadequatly
differentiated. The systems are also underfunded. The administrative workload has increased
dramatically with the rapid economic shifts and changes in peswion benefits and eligibility,
but the greater workload has not been matched by growth in staff or an improvement in staff
skills. Moreover, the administrative system lacks data-processing equipment and adequate
space for offices and archives.
* An analysis of medium- and long-term conditions under the present social insrace
and pension system of Romania in the light of the most likely social and demographic trends
points to a worsening dependency ratio (the ratio of beneficiaries to contributors). Assuming
that the wage replacement rate remains at about 60 percent, social inrance contributions
would have to be increased to rates far above the highest present rates and hardly acceptable
to the active population. Conversely, if social insurance contnbutions were kept at current
rates, the wage replacement rate would drop significantly, an intolerable outcome for
pensioners.
Chapter 5 outlines the proposed reforms of Romania's social insuance and pension
system. These reforms have been designed with the aim of creating a more coherent system
and one more compatible with the social and economic system that the country seeks to
build.
After describing the main objectives of the new social insurance system, and of the
pension system in particular, the chapter discusses the system's proposed organizational and
functional structure; its benefits structure, eligibility criteria, and method of calculating
benefits; the new system's funding and costs over the medium and long term; and a strategy
for developing a complementary voluntary private pension system.
The new organizational and funcdonal strcture implies a unified public pension
system that would integrate all the independent systems, including the farmers' scial
insurance and pension system and the supplementary scheme. Administrative responsibility



91                             _ne 5
Page 7 of 8
for the system would be transferred gradually to a new, independent agency, with both
central and local offices. This agency would report to the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection, which would continu to have primary responsibility for policymaking on social
insurance and pension matters and for drafting social security legislation and monitoring its
implementation.
A new benefits stuce  for social insurance and pensions is recommended, in which
some of the current noncontributory benefits would be transferred to other agencies and new
benefits, needed both during and after the transition to a market economy, would be
established. It is recommended that pensions be indexed to protect pensioners' incomes
against the effects of inflation. And to increase the pension system's fairness and ensure its
solvency, it is recommended that the period of time for which eamings are used in
calculating pensions be gradually extended, that the retirement age also be gradually extended
and that it be made uniform, and that the income base to be used in determining social
insurance contributions, pensions, and other benefits be clearly defined. The chapter reports
the results of an analysis of the effects of these changes on contribution and pension levels,
taking into account demographic and economic projections.
The need to increase the system's transparency and fairness, to ease the burden on
employers and on the social insurance and pension staff-overwhelmed by the overly
complex benefit calculation-and to improve the distribution within and between generations
has been the impetus behind the proposed simplified pension calculation formula. This
formula should link contributions to benefits more closely and ensure continuity between the
present and future systems. Also proposed is a ceiling on the earnings considered in
establishing individual social insurance contribution rates and pension benefits.
In addition, the chapter analyzes the possibility of increasing not only old-age pensions, but
also disability pensions and short-term benefits, especially temporary disability benefits.
In evaluating social insurance contributions, the chapter suggests that responsibility
for contributions for employed persons be allocated between employers and employees, in
proportions that would differ among the work groups. Such an arrangement would leave



92
Annex 5
Page 8 of 8
employees' net salaries unaffected. The chapter,also analyzes the contributions of the self-
employed, including farmers.
The medium- and long-term financial effects of the proposed reforms are estimated
using complex mathematical models. The results suggest that the reforms would make it
possible either to reduce social insurance contributions if the present wage replacement rtes
are kept unchanged, or to icrease the wage replacement rates if the current contribution
rates are maintained.
Finally, the chapter lays out a strategy for developing a voluntary private pension
scheme to complement the public pension system. A private pension system would allow
people to add substantially to their reirement ncomes.
The last chapter puts forth a phased program of action for implementing the reforms
to the social insurance and pension system, detailing both technical and legislative steps. The
program outlines the conditions for the different steps and the relationships between them,
and gives an estimated schedule for their implementation.
x c x
It is our opinion that the discussions and suggestions provided in this white paper will
contribute toward the realization of the reforms of Romania's social insuLrance and pension
system.



93                    A~~~~~~nnex 6
Page 1 of 3
IROTOCO FOlSE ZST3LST
or camiz   woumas       CDUsm.W
-cocc  AND ADVXSOR GROUPS
ARTICLE 1
Q=Zp^;A STJLT NTW
The purpose of this protocol in to provide terms of reference for the
establishment and operation of a Career Information and Counseling Working
Group (CICWG) and a Career Information and Counseling Advisory Group (CICAG)
to implement the Career Information and Counseling subcomponent of the World
Bank Employment and Social Protection Project.
ARTICLE 2
STATEMNT OF PURPOS3 OF THE CICWG
The purpose of the CICWG is to develop high quality career information,
counseling materials and procedures to improve human resource allocation,
labor force mobility and productivity, and to improve the cost-effectiveness
of employment, education and training programs. The primary target groups for
the products of the CICWG will be unemployed adults in employment service
offices and students in schools. Since the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection (MOLSP) and the Ministry of Education (MOE) are the major
stakeholders, they w$ll provide an equal number of experts to staff the CICKO.
STATZEMNT OF PURPOSE OF THS CICAG
The products of the CICWG will influence the career decisions of millions of
students and adults (unemployed and employed) each year and significantly
impact the Romanian economy. To ensure they accurately reflect current and
projected labor force realities, carefully selected experts from government,
business and industry, labor and user groups wi:l participate either as
regular or consulting members of the CICAG, and influence all stages of
conceptualization, development, validation, distribution and evaluation of
CICWG products.
ARTICLE 3
OR3AIZATION OF THE CICWG
The CICWG will be staffed by up to 10 full-time professionals, who will be
located in facilities provided by the Instituto for Educational Sciences
(IES). It will have a support staff of three people, provided by MOE/IRS.
The Director of the CICWG will be from MOLSP and the Deputy Director will be
from ZES. Reporting to them will be four experts appointed by MOLSP and four



94
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
appointed by MOE. This staff will be supported occasionally by foreign
experts for short periods and more regularly by local experts either on
secondment from their own organizations or on contract.
ORgANZZAT!ON OF THE CXCAG
The CICAG wvil be comprised of at least 4 designated representatives from
MOLSP and an equal number from MOE, plus 1 representative of the Ministry of
Youth and Sports. Among these representatives will be a Secretary of State
from each ministry, at least one person at the Director General level from
each ministry, and other specialists deemed appropriate by each ministry. It
is anticipated that the CICAG will be enlarged over time as other interested
agencies seek participation, but their participation must. be improved
unanimously by the core group described above. This core group will be
consulted extensively with representatives of employer groups, union groups
and user groups to ensure that the products of the CICWG are congruent with
the needs of all social partners.
The CICAG will meet formally at least twice per year but its members will
always be as accessible as possible to CICWG staff on an advisory basis. They
will also help the CICWG organize career information and counseling review
committees within their organizations, and facilitate field-testing and
implementation of CICWG products. Any disputes concerning activities of the
CICWG will be settled by majority rule among CICAG members.
ARTICM. 4
PRODVCTS To EX DNvELOPD
The CICWG, supported by the CICAG, will develop:
-     Printed career information which will include occupational profiles,
career newspapers, posters and other products deemed important by CICHO,
CICAG and their partners.
-     Computer software which will be used in employment offices and schools
to help individuals explore their career options.
-     Video programs which will be used in employment offices and schools to
teach the processes of career planning and job search and introduce
viewers to occupational sectors of special importance to Romania's
emerging market economy.
-     Interest and aptitude tests, in print and computer-based formats, which
will be used in mployment offices and schools to help youth and adults
identify occupations compatible with their interests and aptitudes.
-     Short-term training courses to teach staff from employment offices and
schools how to use the above products effectively, and a four-month



95                             Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
university diploma program in career development and counseling to
enable counselors from employment offices and schools to counsel more
effectively.
ARTZCLZ S
PO08TIORB FOR C!cwo PERSONNEL
The staff of the CICWG will require special knowledge and skills not currently
available in Romania and they will be required to interact effectively with
large numbers of people .from throughout the country, work long hours and
endure considerable travel in the performance of their duties. The CICWG
positions will be sufficiently elevated to attract and keep the necessary
personnel on this team.
ARUTZrL 6
ZSTAZLZBsU  OF TNr CICWO/ICZaG
Membership of the CICAG will be established and the CICWG staff will be in
place in facilities provided by IES immediately. The CICWG will proceed with
a detailed review of the status of career counseling in other countries and
the development of a detailed CIC plan for Romania. As a concurrent activity,
project team members will present the CIC plan to local employment offices and
school administrators and staff to involve a broad cross-section of
professionals in the planning process.
ARTICLE 7
LEGISLATION
MOLSP and MOE will endeavor to include in any new legislation approved by
parliament, where appropriate, terminology which defines and supports the
outcomes of the career information and counseling program, particularly in
schools and labor offices.



I
96



Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
Protocal for Establishment of the NTB
PROTOCOL
concerning the estabLishment and responsibilities of the National Training Board
1. Purpose of the Protocol
The purpose of this Protocol is to obtain agreement by the three social parters
(Government, Employers' organizations and Trade Unions) to set up a National Traning
Board, as a tipartite body to develop and implement the adult training policy and strategy
together.
2. Objectives of the National Training Board
* Promote cooperation among Gove;nment, Trade Unions and Employers (pubLic and
private) in adult training for employment and ensure development of a traini  system better
adapted to the demands of the market economy.
* Pmmote development of quality. lxible training progras at the level of groups of
counties, cities and towns in order to meet the existng and future needs for labor, with a
view to improving productivity and economic growth.
* Assure unrestricted access to trairing programs to companies willing to have their
work force trained, to individuals who are unemployed, unskilled youth leaving schools, or
any other individuals who are willing or obliged to get trained, retrained or improve their
skills, while employed with commercial companies, regional autonomies, public institutions,
the co-operative or the private sector.
3. Role of National Training Board
* The National Training Board is the mational tripartite body for discussing and
proposing solutions for the adult training poIi.cy and priorities of the national and regional
economy in the field.
* Within the regulations in force, the rational Training Board will emblish short and
medium-term priorities and endorse funding by the Govermment in order to implement the
training programs according to the needs of every phase, such as: taining for reconversion
of certain industries, mass lay-offs in certain industries and geographical regions,
management, entrepreneurship training and programs of national signifcance.
* The National Training Board may propose the Government amendments to the
existing training legislation.



98
Page 2 of 3
* The National Training Board will coordinate activity of tripartite Couty Training
Boards (CTBs) to develop the policy and prionties of taining at the local level, including the
needs for funding in this field. The CTBs will submit to the National Traiing BQard
justfied proposals to establish some adult training centers managed by independent
foundations.
* Setting up and developing taining centers fianced by the state will be possible on
condition that the criteria sipulated in point 5 are met.
4. Role of the MOLSP in its relationship with the Natdonal Training Board
In this relationship with the National Traning Board, the MOISP will:
* ensure that implementation of decisions made by the National Training Board fall
within the legal and administaive framework set by the Govenmment and Parliament;
* be rsponsible for reng, obtaining and adminiser  the budgetary allocations
and any other financig sources (bilateral or multilateral) to accomplish activities endorsd by
the National Training Boards;
* be responsible for providing the staff and administrative services needed for the
activities of the National Training Board, as well as for implementing the actions proposed
and endorsed by this Board.
= The munber of saff for the National Training Board's activities will be 17, headed
by a Director appointed by the MOISP in agreement with the National Train   Board and
rpoting both to the chair of the National Training Board and to the MOISP
* The MOISP will nominte an interim chair ntil - withi one year - the N ational
Trainng Board nomiates one. The chair will be elected by rotation among the social
parters, for a period of one year.
S. CrIeria for fincing of trining actiies
The National Training Board will endorse financing of establishent and
development of regional or local training centers as well as financing of local trining
programs of condition that the following minimum criteria are met
-     training must be modular, individualized, in a flexible entry/exit manner;
-     training must be bgsed as a rule on regional and local needs for labor;
-     regional and local centers must be able to provide a minimum range of
services, as follows: occupational counselling and placement when trainig is
completed; a range of minimum 10 occupational taining profiles; general
education courses to support vocational traidng; custom training of
enterprises, small business training. Centers may subcontract with specialized
private cooperative or public compaies for delivery of certai services
mentioned above, which they canot provide tbemselves.
* The National Tramning Board may establish additional criteria.



99
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
6. Hnancing of Training
* The financing sources for training may be: the unemployment fund, the state
budget, intemational organizations, companies and individual clients.
* Financing of training centers will be accomplished on the basis of normative tariffs
per trainee, set in accordance with the methodological norms to be endorsed by the National
Training Board.
* Periodically and at least once every year, the number of trainees in the training
courses as well as the extent to which the prerequisite criteria have been met, will be
checked. If the number of trainees or prerequisite criteria are not met, the MOLSP may
decide upon withdrawal of a portion of funds allocated.
7. National Training Board Membership
* The National Training Board will be composed of representatives of three social
partners: (a) ministries and other government institutions; (b) representatives of employers in
the private and public sectors and (c) representatives of national Trade Union Confederations.
The numbers of trade union and employers' organizations that may sign the Protocol is
unrestricted, while each social partner will have a maximum number of 7 votes. The 7
voting representatives of each of the social partners will be agreed upon by each group by 31
July 1993.
* Each of partners will have an equal share of votes; decisions will require a two-
thirds majority vote, and a quorum of two thirds of the members.
* The National Training Board will meet at least once every quarter and also
whenever necessary.
This Protocol is signed on 9 July 1993 by the following individuals:



001



101
Annex S
Page 1 of 4
CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF RDULT TRAINING PROGRAMS
The following criteria will be used by the NIB in selecting and endoruing
programs to be financed under the project.
A.    Raicinal Adult Trainine  Centers
l.Mlnimum Criteria for Acceptance of Local Proposals to Establih RATCs
(Note: Proposals must moet these conditLons to be consLdered)
Clients to be 8erved: Training wLll be provLded to a range of clients
including Lndlivduals needing initial training (including youth over
the compulsory school age and others entering the workforce for the
first time), retrainLng for the unemployed, training for the employed
who wLsh to improve thelr skills and/or change careers (galn a new
qualLfLcation), and custom trainlng servLces for enterprises.
Servics to be Provided, RATCs must agree to provLde comprehensLve
servlces Lncluding: occupatlonal counseling and placment, a range of
occupational traLning profiles, general education courses to support
vocatLonal traLnLng, entrepreneurship tralnlng and assistance (Lncluding
possLble management of small busLness Lncubators), and custom traniLng
to support local economLc developm nt, enterprlse restructurlng, and new
investment partliularly ln small and medium sized private sector
enterprLses.
Admission to RATCs Admission to RATCs must be open (no pr*-establlhed
academlc requirements) however lndLvLdual programs may have special
entrance requlrements. If LndLvidual programs have speclal entrance
requirements the RATC lnvolved must make every effort to arrange or
provlde tralnlng needed to assist cllints Ln meeting these requir em nts.
Type of Instruction:   TraLnLng programs must be deslgned such that
trainees could joLn and flnlih programs all year round. TraLning
programs should consist of dLstLnct modul-cs or elements each wlth a
well deflned content. The traLnees could maximLze the use of thelr time
by selecting only those modules that are sulted to their neds and
abillty level.
GQovernanct RATCs proposals must be from local authorltles and Lndicate
that: (a) the RATC will be an lndependent agency, (b) that lt will be
under the authorlty of a trlpartlte Reglonal (local) TraLnLng Board
composed of representatlves of Employers, Workers and oovernment wLth
each group havLag equal volce, and (c) that lt wlll be lndependent of
natlonal governmnt agencLes but operated in accord wlth pollclis of the
Natlonal Training Board and applicable laws. In order to ensure that the
training needs of the emergLng private sector are adquately
represented, the prlvate sector share of the employers, reprosentatlon
on the CTBs would be at mLnimum 50 percent except in those few Lnotances



102
Annex 8-
Page 2 of 4
where local private sector developmnt and representation is embryonic.
Furthermore, a *ubcommittee of the CTSr would be formed to determine the
specific skills for which training would be supported by the CTBU. To
ensure adequate private sector representation in determining *kill
needs, at least 75% of the membership of this coomittee would be from
the private sector.
2.    Criteria on which Proposals will be Evaluated.
Labor Market Demand: Systematic evidence of strong demand for the
training programs proposed, such as surveys of students, unemployed
workers and firms, or a prlor track record of successful job placemant,
student demand for courses or willingness of firms to pay for training
services. Special efforts will be made to document applications for
enrollment in different training in different training institutions,
both public and private.
Level and Composition of the Unemoploved: NTC will assign a greater
weight to proposals from areas of high unemployment, where there are
large numbers of unemployed unskilled youth, rural; or village
unemployment and an overall need for retraining based on the
occupational structure of the unemployed and changes in the economy.
Tvye of Economic Rmstructurino in the Recion: Regions undergoing major
economic structural change and requiring a major change in skills of the
labor force would be given priority.
sUnMrt ZInstitutions: Regions with limited and/or outdated institutional
capacity to provide adult training and retraining would be given
priority.
Local Sumiort: Evidence of local support (e.g. provision of facilities
for the RATC, staff, finance for conversion of facilities and/or
recurrent operations) should be included in the proposal, including
commitment of the local labor office to provide a minimum level of
training resources for unemployed clients.
StA M   Qualifications of key individuals proposed for developing major
programs (e.g. administration and finance, vocational training, small
business development, general education, enterprise services).
Breadth of Proarams and Recional Coverace: Evidence that the RATC will
serve a broad geographic area and multiple training profiles (e.g.
proposals focusing on one or two sectors with a narrow geographic
interest will receive low scores).



103
Anex 8-A
Page 3 of 4
B.    Contracted Adult Vocational Trainino
1.    Minimum Criteria for Supporting new Programs in Existing Training
Centors. (Notes Proposals must meet these conditions to be considered)
Clionts to be Served: Training institutions must agree to provide
training to youth over the compulsory school age, the unemployed, as
well as adults who wish to improve their skills and/or change careers
(gain a new qualification).
ervlices to be Provided: Training institutions must agree to provide
job placement assistance to trainees.
TYpe of Instruction:   Training programs must be designed such that
trainees could join and finish programs on a flexible basis. Training
programs should consist of distinct "modules" or   eme nts each with a
well defined content so trainees can maximize the use of their time by
selecting only those modules that are suited to their needs and ability
level.
2.    Criteria on which Proposals will be Evaluated.
Labor Market Demand:   Systematic evidence of strong demand for the
training programs proposed, such as surveys of students, unemployed
workers and firms, or a prior track record of successful job placement,
or willingness of firms to pay for training service-. Special efforts
will be made to incorporate data on students' demand by documenting
enrollment applications both in private and public institutions.
Level and Composition of the Unemploved: NTC will assign a greater
weight to proposals from areas of high unemployment, where there are
large numbers of unemployed unskilled youth, rural; or village
unemployment and an overall need for retraining based on the
occupational structure of the unemployed and changes in the economy.
Type of Economic Restructurina in the Recion: Regions undergoing major
economic structural change and requiring a major change in skills of the
labor force would be given priority.
Suoport Institutions: Regions with limited and/or outdated institutional
capacity to provide adult training and retraining would be given
priority.
Local SuDDort: Evidence of local support (e.g. provision of facilities,
staff, finance for conversion of facilities and/or recurrent operations)
should be included in the proposal.
itaffi Qualifications of key it)dividuals proposed for developing the
program. Agreement that the staff would be made available to work with
the NTB to develop curriculum and related equipment lists



104
Annexs 8-A
Page 4 of 4
C.    Princilles of Financina Above Trainina Proorums.
1.    All project investment resources allocated for local
institutions/uites, individual adult training programs would be
controlled by the NTB and disbursed according to criteria and
procedures agreed with the Bank.
2.    Recurrent costs for the small contingent of NTB staff would be
covered from the State budget. Recurrent costs (i.e., unit costs
of training) would be financed from multiple sources which would
vary depending on the institution providing the service and client
group served.
3.    State budget resources would finance training the long-term
unemployed or school leavers for which there is a public good
justification. Public budget resources would also be used to
partially offset the costs of retraining employed workers in
recognition that this Is an investment in human capital with
positive social externalities.
4.    Fees or user charges paid by employed individuals and firms, would
be used to offset all or a major part (i.e. 50 percent) of the
costs of training employed workers and managers at all
institutions (e.g., RATCs, adult training).



105
Annex B-B
Page I of 6
DRAFT CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF MANAGEMENT TRAINING PROGRAMS1
A.    Itroduction
Zconomic reStructuring will require skillful and innovative management on
the part of firms, but current inadequate managerial skills pone a serious
constraint to firms successfully responding to the new comp titive environment.
Romanian managers learned their profession in a centralized system where their
objectives related to meeting production targets. Many managers are engineers,
well trained technically, but lacking in knowledge of modern financial
management, human resources management and marketing techniques. Nevertheless,
they are expected to exercise initiative in strategic planning and decision-
making requiring skills in a competitive and dynamic environment. While the
universities and polytechnics are beginning to adapt business, management and
economics curricula, this will take time and will meet mainly the needs of young
people currently enrolled.   While,  larger enterprises can often get their
management consulting and training needs met through joint ventures with foreign
partners, mall- and medium-size enterprises lack access to practically-oriented
management training.
In order to develop the specific management skills and competencies
required by enterprises for achieving a competitive position in the new market
economy, the NTB would define policies, conditions and procedures for the
development of management training for private enterprises, especially small- and
medium-size ones. The NTB would: (a) establish priorities and guidelines to
promote development of management training, develop short- and medium-term plans,
and train a small staff to implement/monitor assistance programs; (b) assist
selected enterprises in effectively formulating their management training needs;
and (c) select and support institutions to develop and supply management training
programs corresponding to those needs.  The project would provide short-term
(about six months) training for managers of about 200 firms.  The NTB would
periodically review program impact and adapt priorities as necessary (see
sections B and C below).
B.     Manaaement Training Needs: Criteria for Enterorises
The following criteria will be used by the NTB in selecting and endorsing
enterprises to receive management training.
1.    Minimum Eligibility Criteria for Enterprises
(Note: Enterprises must mest these criteria to be eligible for selection)
Management Training was included in the original design of the Adult
Training subcomponent, but cofinancing for Management Training was not available
at the time of Negotiations. Thus, the MOLSP, with Bank assistance, is still
seeking bilateral grants to support the Management Training Programs deacribed
in this annex.



106
Annex 8-a
Page 2 of 6
Status and size:   Only private enterprises  (majority privato
ownership and control) incorporated and registered under Romanian
business law are eligible. The maximum size is 100 employees, i.e.,
small to medium scale. No less than 60 percent of the funds are to
be allocated to firms with 100 or less employees.
ownership: Enterprises must have a two-thirds ownership by private
Romanian  capital.       Participation  of  foreign  subsidiario-
incorporated in Romania are to be considered foreign.   Foreign
franchises even if owned by Romanian private interests are not
eligible.
Taxes:   Enterprises must have paid their participation to the
employment tax fund.
2.    Criteria on which Proposals will be Evaluated
Relevance of the Propogal: The enterprise's proposal for
identification of management training needs must be consistent with
itg plans or strategies of development.
Financial Ca2abilitv:   The enterprise must have the financial
capability (directly and/or with bank loans) to carry out its plans
including to finance its share of technical assistance, management
restructuring and training.
Manaaement Structure:   The existing management structure must
demonstrate it's capacity to undergo change.
Sector of Activity: Certain strategic sectors may be given priority
(e.g., export oriented activities, employment creation).
Geoaravhic Area: Proposals from under represented geographic area
may be given priority.
C.     Manacement Trainina Provision: Criteria for Trainina Institutions
1.   Minimum Eligibility Criteria for Training Institutions
(Note: Training Institutions must meet theme criteria to be eligible for
selection).
Status:  Public and private institutions must have training or
education as their primary activity to be eligible. Public training
institutions which were developed as part of large public companies
must be autonomous.  Private companies must be incorporated and
registered under Romanian business law.



107
&Dnex B-B
Page 3 of 6
ownershi2: All institutions must have full Romanian ownership.
Moreover, they cannot be owned or controlled by either employers or
workers' unions.
Taxes: All institutions must have fully paid their participation to
the employment tax fund.
2.    Criteria on which Proposals will be Evaluated
Relevance of the ProDosal: Proposals must correspond to specific
demand identified in enterprises, preferably by technical assistance
provided in the previous phase of the program.
Methodoloav:   Proposals must be based on the development of
approaches, methodologies and tools which are applicable to
Romanian enterprises in different areas of activity.
Calpabilitv to Realize Proiect: Institutions must demonstrate they
have the structural, human, and financial capability to develop and
Implement their proposals.
Cumulative Suwoort: Institutions must give all information on other
assistance they may receive for the same proposal. Priority will be
given to proposals which do not have other support.
Cost-effectiveness: Proposals must demonstrate cost-effectiveness
in their implementation (for the institution itself asd its
customers).
Field of Training:  Priority may be given to fields of training
which are in high demand in enterprises in reference to the results
of technical assistance in the previous phase of the program.
D.    Princiolem of Financina Above Trainina Proarams IB and Cl.
1.    All   project   investment   resources   allocated   for   local
institutions/sites, individual adult and management training
programs would be controlled by the NTB and disbursed according to
criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank.
2.    Recurrent coats for the small contingent of NTB staff would be
covered from the State budget. Recurrent costs (i.e., unit costs of
training) would be financed from multiple sources which would vary
depending on the institution providing the service and client group
served.
3.    State  budget  resources  would  finance  training  the  long-term
unemployed or school leavers for which there is a public good



108
Annex  -B
Page 4 of 6
justification. State budget resources would also be used to
partially offset the costs of retraining employed workers in
recognition that this is an investment in human capital with
posltive social externalities.
4.    Fees or user charges paid by employed individuals and firms, would
be used to offset all or part (at least 50 percent) of the costs of
training employed workers and managers at all institutions (e.g.,
RATCu, adult training, management training).
Z.    Manaament Trainina Activities Matrix
BJECTIVZES                                 ACTIVITIES
1. National Trainina Board -             (i) Policies: Initiate priority
Management Training: Bstablish           directions (e.g.strategic soctor of
policies, conditions and procedures    activity) and operations to support
for the development of management        (a) the evolution of a demand for
training in public and private           management training in enterpri-sze
enterprises.                             (b) the development of management
training programs, responding to
demand from enterprises, in training
institutions. Review periodically the
impact of training on the development
of managerial competencies in
enterprises and adapt priorities as
necessary.
(Li) ProvisionsD   Establish a five
year program to specify general
conditions to: (a) allocate
management training resourcec to
selected beneficiaries (enterprises
and training institutions); (b)
define procedures for examination,
approval and evaluation of proposals
from beneficiaries; (c) promote
project.
(iii) Staffinac  Select and train two
staff to administer and supervise
management development programs at
the NTB.



109
Annex 8-B
Page 5 of 6
OBJICCTIVS                              ACTIVITIZS
2.     EnterRrise Analysis: Provid-    (i) Criteral: Refin  criteria
support to selected enterprises to      consistent with those agreed with the
formulate a proficient management       World Bank in terms of: (a)
training demand.                        qualifying beneficiaries for
obtaining support (e.g. Romanian
companies not subsidiaries of foreign
firms)7 and (b) specific norms for
provision of project assistance (e.g.
participation in costs by
beneficiaries).
(ii) Selection: determine process to
select enterprises (review of each
proposals), and to organize and
provide project support to selected
beneficiaries.
(iii) Operations: Provide support to
selected enterprises ( e.g. technical
assistance from consulting firms,
fellowships) (a) to idontify
management training needs and draft
corresponding training plans; (b) to
develop internal human resources
departments with expertlae to
formulate training programs.



110
Annex 8-B
Page 6 of 6
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
3. Trainina for enterorisest Provide   (i) 2r iexA. Refine crit-ria,
support to selected existing and new   consistent with those agreed with the
training institutions to develop        World Bank in terms of: (a)
cost-effective manag e  nt trainlng     qualifying beneficiaries for
programs for enterprises.               r-ceiving support (e.g. Technical
Institutes, public training centers);
and (b) specific norms to determine
which would receive project support
(e.g. institution provides staff for
project devolopment).
(11) Selection: Determine process to
select new and existing institutions
(review of proposals), and organize
and supervise bidding from training
institutions which want support to
develop/refine selected institutions.
(iii) operations: Provide support to
selected now and existing training
institutions (e.g. technical
assistance, fellowships abroad,
equipment): (a) to develop new
management training programs, at all
levels, to r-spond to demand from
enterprises; (b) to train professors
in the fields of managemnt included
in the new programs; and (c) to
create teaching materials adapted to
the needs of training managers
(simulations, cases set in the
Romanian environment.



NEGI .XLS
ROMANI
EnbWow4t ald Sodnl Problon P,ed
Table 1. MoIbrltg S PdkqY Amyse
Debtald C
___________________ mutiesUnI                                                             mmn cost
Undt  7sm        Om197?    SlIM    eM         955      50        Totbl    Cost         N   SNW    97iM    mS   596    5015N   TOel
Lhnvetame Cost
A. Policy Evauatlonf  Aney
1. Employment Training NS
Experts (abroed)                     morth                   12        6                                    18   1500        -     180     90       -       -       -    270
E hert (cal)                         moh            -        24                           -        -        24    0.40       -      10       -      -                     10
TmlnlgOocal)                          morth                  50       50         -        -                100    016        -      8       8               -       .     16
Traing (abrood)                         o                     7                                              7     00        -     42            -      -       -         42
Subttl                                                                                                                         -    240      9        -                    336
2. SoIal AssistBnee 0S
Ezer (abroad)                        moh            -        12        6                                    l -  -  18   15.0      10      90       -               -    270
Expets (locaIJ                        n                      24         -        -        -        -        24    0.40              10                      -       -     10
Tralrn (ocal)                          oth          -       50        50         -                 -       100    0.16              8       a                              16
Traing (abroad)                      onth-                    7         -        -        -                  7    6.00       -     42        -                      -     42
Subtotal                                                                                                                       -    240      96           -       -        33
3. Employment Evaluaton Surv
Experts (abroad)                     month                    -        8         a                          16  15.00        -            120    120        -       -    240
Experts (ocal)                         nh           -         -       12        12                 -        24    0.40       -              5       5                     10
TrinWng (abroad)                      nh                               4         4        -                  a    6.00       -             24      24           -         48
Trainn (local)                       monrth         -         -        6         6        -        -        12   0.16        -         -       1    1           -          2
Soltwae                               vulse                                                                                  -              4       4       -              a
Subtotal                                                                                                                       -       -    154    154                     306
4. SocIal Asstnce Evaluatlon
Survey
Ets (abroad)                         month                    .        8         a        -                 16   15.00       -            120    120                -    240
Eset (lcal)                          monrth                   -       12        12                 -        24    0.40               -      5       5       -       *     10
Trlning (abroad)                     month          .         .        4         4                           a    600                      24      24               ,     46
Trinwwg (-c)                         month          -                  6         6        -                 12    016        -         -    1       1       -       -      2
Soliware                              vwue                                                                                   -       -      4       4               .      8
Subtotel                                                                                                                                    154    154                     308
5. Integrted Household Survey
Experts(abrood)                      month          .                  5         5                          10   15.00               ,     75      75                     ISO
Experts (local)                      month                             5         5                          10    0 40                      2       2       .              4
Cogputers                             unik                    -         1                  -       -         1    1.75       -       -       2           .      .          2
SOdwwe                                vau                                                                                            ,      5                       -       5
Tmrnv (abroad)                       month                    -        6         6        6        6        24    600        -       -     36      36      36      3S    144
Subtal                                                                                                                                       120    113      36      36    305
Subtotal                                                                                                                         .    479    623    421        38      36   1.505
S. Occupetkoal Sa"et
1.        h     _rmaon Syatm
Computers /a                          unt          26        20         -         -       -        -        46    1.75      46      35               -      -       -     81
2. Msa nWonnaton &
E        _rmnIMaei  lb                vowe                                                                                         200       .       ,      ,            200
ConAem /c                             uni           3         -                   -                          3    1.75       5       '                              -       5                    >
Experts (abroad)  month   I        -                  .        .        -        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 15.00  15                     -      15 
Subtohtl                                                                                                                      20    200                                     220                   m -
3. Woerk Equpmenmt Safty                                                                                                                                                                          X
EquWipmnetMatenal Id                 vwae                                                                                          300    100                            400 
.Pop I



Trui(abra                          Ioith        1                 -I -                     -         1   6.00      6      -             -                    a
Su_ta111                                                                                                            8    300    100       -               -40
4. Aaassnmid of VWON n
C_MU
EAeWMeWl                          wvim                                                                             .   400     300                         700
CopaAn                             unt         12       12        -        -       -       *        24   175      21    21                             *    42
subX                                                                                                               21   421    3D                        -   742
5. Assasames or Nfhui
E*     &IMarl  -                   Vsn                                                                                  375                            -   375
Copuers                             It                                                               a 8  -  -  -  8   175  14   -                           14
SubI                                                                                                                 -   389       -      -      -       - 39
L Slerv   RNabhty fhr
|               ~~~ ~~TechIcl Eqt
Eqs Wuta la                        vkue                                                                                 200              -      -      -   200
7._ingReat
EqulmWiter   h           -         vA                                                                                   200      -       -                  200
Tota huwealmf Costs                                                                                                    93  2.22   1,023    421      36     38  3,8
11. Rbeunt Cest
A. Hou _hold Suveys
Enwneuutor Costs                    ve                                                                               -            10      5     10      5     30
Trpot Coats A                       v,e                                                                                           10      5      10     5      30
Total Recwent Costb                                                                                                      -            20     10    20      10    e0
Total                                                                                                                   93  2,224  1,043    431      56     46  3.893
li 41 PC36:65 PC486, printes
ib Muiittipalon eqim.CD-ROM lecor
Ic 1 PC386.2 Pc41e
id Test  an meass    devces
e 8 PC386; 8 PC486, plotters. prnte
V 5 PC386: I PC4e6; p1,m mk.
I            g~~~1 Te_f wns menu    equpn-
h MiAnin rescue devices
t Incbde etin ate for fuel and deprecation
00
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
0
PopI2
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Page~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 2



NEG2WALS
ROMANIA
Emymn an social  Pt n P
Tetl 2. Aiornatlon: Labor O0s, Naion
0111cee & Dala Cener
DoUed Ce
OuanUilee                                                                        San Coat
UnLt       35136       36et7 U71n6              36133            0 C613               Total    UnS cost WM3   611W7   3713                     -am 5e n   Tobtl
A. Manageme_   TechnIca Asshtnce
1.M_naaan
Vehicles                                 unt               I            I                                     .                        2      10.00     10      10                              -      20
Expet (abd)                             month              6           12          12            9           6                        45     1500       90    1O    180    135        90             675
Expelt (ocal)                           month              9           24          24           18          12                        87      0 40       4      10     10       7       5       -      35
Trlnln (abd)                            month              5            5           2            2            -           -           14      6.00      30     30      12      12                      64
Tr.na(Ichln morth                                         5           10           5            5           5                        30      016        1      2       1       1       1      -        5
Saboa         st134    231    202    15    96                                                                                                                                                    8       19
2. Speclflcaaos ha
ENpI t(abrood)                          morth              2            2           2            -            .                        6      15 00     30      30     30               -       -      90
EI   efl (ta)                           morth                          e6           6                               -                 12      0 40               2      2        -              -       5
T aIlg (abrd                           nmth                I            I           I                                     -            3      6.00       6      6       a        -      -              18
Tr oh *   coca                          mornh              2            2           2            1            1           1            9      016        0      0       0       0       0      0        1
Subtot                                                                                                                                                    36      39     39       0       0      0      114
B Stotal                                                                                                                                                   171    270    241      155      96       0     933
1. Design, devlopment.
est & implement
Expert (bod)                            mon                3           12           9            6                        -           30      15.00     45    160    135       90                            5 -  450
Expert a(cal)                           month              .          180         180           60            -                      420       0.40      -      72     72      24                     166    W
Train  (aboad)                          month              3            5           8            3           3            3           25      6o0       16      30     48      16      16      16     150
Tr oh     Oucal)                        mornth             3           10          10            8           8            S           47       0.16      0       2      2       1       1       1       a
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                  63    284    257    133        19      19     776
2. ToechnIcal Training
Epeta (abrod)                           mondh                           -           5                                                  5      15.00      -       -     75        '      '              75
Tialning(local)                         month              .            .          30           15            -                       45       0.16              -       5      2                       7
inAtotl                                                                                                                                                                   80      2       -       -      82
3. Inehnance IL Opeaion
E pet (abrad                             mornh             -            -           I            I                                     2      15.00                     15     15       -       -      30
EIat (locel)                            month              -                      144           72            -                      216       0A40                    56      29       .              86
Subtota                                                                                                                                                                  73      44                     116
4. Use TaInIng
User  C _oumwban                        vaue                                                                                                             .       -     20      20      20      20      80
Eweg t(u.d)                             monih              -            -           4            2            .           .            6      15.0D      -             60.    30        -       -      90
Tmining (bole                            monrth            -            .         360          120            .           .          480      01               28      56      19       -      .       77
Sublo                                                                                                                                                           1-138            69      20     20      247
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                    66    284    547    249        39      39    1,221
C. buatabWn !amdwaqe
1. Ceud P eeean  Fudlq
CMAwout                                   m2             550                         -           -                        -          550       0.05     20       -                                     28
SewTWOl M                                Unit              2            -                  .                                           2    300.00    am0        -                              .     80 p:
Diat A     mbS rAoahe                    unti             20            -            -                        .C.                                                                                          D 20  30  ,  .  . .
prbftarR                                 ud                1-                              -                        -                  1      50.00  o                          50                            .  .  .  90D
com                    t unk -  1 - m   .   .  it          -I                   eo -                                                      1  100.00            100                                    I  x
Pwaondl/om*pstn ih                       unt              20                  -            .                                          20       1.75     35                                             35-  .  .  35 
0
Page 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



E*        b te                                                 *ee                               .M  6                            -            12     t500               g 90    90        -                       S 1O0
Brut 0Io                                   mdh                 -           24           24            12           12           12            84       0.40       -      10       10       5       5       5       34
Trun I    IMI                                                  2            5            5                                                     12      #00       12      30      30        .       .       -       72
TI*"  0I011 hd                            I                    -           10           20            10           10           10             60      0.16       -       2       3        2       2       2        10
06uMe                                                                                                                                                             79      231      133       6       6       a    1.16611
Leed GUm ompw4ew
Sw  T          I A                                                                                                   -d           -                               .
9uw Tw   114 Ai                                                -           15                          -             -            -            15    100.D0       -   1.500        -       -       -       -     ,00
SwwT"Ilk                                    unl                            SD--                                                               50      3500        -                        -.7-0                 1.70
Pow    Compum_   A                          we              500           S               -            -                          -         1.000      1.75     675     875                                 -    1750
Ewpes                                      mar               132           55                          -            -                         187      0.40      53      22                -       -               75
Td I m   I    Qm  hoo                                        20             -             -            -             -            -           20       .00      120                -                        -      120
T W I ng(Im)hn )                                             40            25           10             -                                      75       0.16       6       4        2                        *       12
_abow                                                                                                                                                           tG.054   4.151       2                        -    5.207
P_un41OMPsAM                                u.41               7            -           37            go          325          Goo          1.099      1.75      12              65      156     T9    1.090    1.053
_w                                                                                                                                                                 1,9     4,        19      164    575   106    6.22
Tobi b wh,u  Ceebt                                                                                                                                                   2.055   4.93      97      56       710   1.096   10Q362
U.Recurre  Comb
S.II"  MOLSP                                 nh                 72           96           96            g6           96           96            552      0.10       7       10      10      10      10       10       55
',dId  cmninon-                            r/Ye                 1            2             2            2            2            2             11       1.20      1        2       2       2       2        2       13
$ '-   '                                                                                                                                                              8       12      12      12      12       12      6G
D. Speclcaflas
S_IgieeMOLSP                                  an                 6           12            12           12           12           12             66      0.10       1        1       1       1       1        1        7
C. SoRwe
S5SeifeMOLSP                                 moth               30           eo           go            96           96           96            474       0.10      3        6      10      1o      10       10       47
D. Ler Trutiw
Soli" MOLsP                                  maroh              o             0           60            60           6            60            360      0.10       6        6       6       6       6        6       36
L Comed Proehlu FacNy
CoAswmbe                                     vokle                                                                                                                   -      95     106     105      105     105      515
k ,      | t gmes|O -                        v*kb                                                                                                                    -      10      50      60      6o       60      240
MukUAnmlos (PC~)                             VulA                                                                                                                            2       3       3       3        3       14
UubSU                                                                                                                                                                        1107    158     166      166     1ee      769
F. Jue lewi Nudonil Offce.
CopagNmb   h                                 v e&j                                                                                                                 20       6o     100     100      100     1OD      460
Muance (Su've) h                -                                                                                                                                          215     300     300 MO      3     00    1,415
Ig    (PCs) p                                % 4k                                                                                                                    -      so     190     2C0     200     2C0       600
Slbae OLSP                                  mfae4h           1.,00        2,100         2,100        2.100         2.100        2,100        11.600      0.10     110      210     210     210     210      210    1.16
_                                                                                          'b'                        '            '             '                  130      535     760     61o     810      610    3.ess
0. C_smeln & cscthoole
*|_  zPc>  e|je                                                                                                           -       1~~ ~ 2         2        2       2        9
Toew     _ tm  Cee                                                                                                                                                     1486            949    1.009   1.009   1.009    4,791
Tdlo                                                                                                                                                                  2,233   904   1.9311    1.577   1.719   2.105   15,173
* For uAanI d    tOlmie, ludt dM,  iel Ml,  uwh  fti eyem.
W Sever TI b _L   llh CPWu se  m, CBMS
~~~~~~~~ Per ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
IO P er'                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OQ  :s
v mo  epee knpid; Prirder we bekg rcue under TAd    d one am Is a iptm                                                                                                                                                           
lo N* k *OMl I I  -4
I PC buded wi dl. 0.  ared 5             .                                                                                                                                                                                     oll
0
Pop 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M



N~EG2.XLS
i For bigs jdst;  hcu Ig oflxnibMs
I For bonh )mI.t handudhg a      k  m   ru2tt
Mc F~ar Brarm Nilond dlo I -o.wmia
I uf     ,Om  I " OmW     .
hn1 dy per PC.
in Avma usW: 1.5 b n of  ur I box dhidp. In             Iomu  hI ouer y    dum e  dgto E dl
lo CcgpS*Ad h 5% atd bu       pkb S1WO mw.
ip SIOWdI   WVw $W ysm fOtiM   cUw yew.. Inckudu  cml  Wprad.&
lq Aasmin 3 isf pe m*w ooe.
~0
I"a 3
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p 



ROMANA
tG3 NNWJm  dem *
Tdl 3 Au*N_n: Sociad Aaio
Dsbo Costa
oJW 0M
Ulm     SWN        Om13       371N       mm3        NWI        am          Total     C.OW    MMN    MM3   37111 1131 OM            NO All   Totl
L bwe,su"it 0e
A. Software
I~~~~~~~~~~~P    M.
1                      ~~~~~~~1. Des,n dmlumei 
EOwv(abmed)Z                             moNth          3          5          5          2          2         1           16   1500       45      75      75      30     30      15    270
E w1sc                                  moni            -         12          6          6          1          1          26    0 40               5       2       2       0      0      10
Trnir (ebosd)                           mnth            2          2          1          I          1         1            6    6O.       12      12       6       6      6       6      48
Tfslnngloal                             month10         2          1          1          1          1          1           7    0,16       0       0       0       0       0      0       1
subtotal                                                                                                                                    57      92      64      39      37      22    330
2. TeetwIcal TAnh
Eets (abr                               mh              -          .          I                                -           1   15 00       .       -      15       -       -       -      15
Trn  (locaO                             month                      -          2          -          -                      2    016        -               0       -               -      0
SUbol                                                                   -'                                                                           '      15                              15
3. Ma fnca & Operato-
Eeit IQOCa)                             month           3          6          6          3          3                     21    0.40       1       2       2       1       1              a 8
4. Use Training
User documenttion                       vaue                                                                                                      14       7               -              21
Everts(abo                              mh              -          3          3                                            6   15.00              45      45               ,              90
Trais*  (kcal)h                         month           -          -        120         60                               le-  1  0.16                     19      10                     429
gubot-, ..    59                                                                                                                                            71I     10               -     140        ,.
5. Central Processirg Faclilty
De Stonae Oevce lb                       uit            3          1          1          -          -                      5    3.00       9       3       3               .         .    15
Pri4er IC                                unit           I           -          -         -          -                      1   5000       50        .         .                           50
Prwuonal Campuers                        unit           3          1                                           -           4    1.75       5       2       -               -               7
Add*tina equowmsrt                       vakue                                                                                           100      s0      25      25      25      25    250
Subtotl                                                                                                                                    164      55      28      25      25      25    322
S. Judet bIel. National Ofce A
Labor Oice Computrs
Serve Type III Id                        unit                      4           .         .                                 4   35 00             140       .       -               -    140
PemonalComteae                           unit         10         100                -               -          -         200    1.75     175    175         .                            350
Expefts (Ioca)R                         month          94         47        235                     -                   164.5   0.40      38      19       9        -              -      66
Traming (local)                         month          16          3           -                               -19    0.16                 3       0                        -       .      3
suI  tal                                                                                                                                   215    334        9                             559
Totlh Invenent Costa                                                                                                                            430    542     210      74      63      47   1,374
N. RecureNd Cost
A. Software
S.Ie sMOLSP                               morth          30         16        1          12         12         12          102   0o10       3       2       2       1       1       1      10
I Usr TrAin
Salte                                     mornth           .        24         24         24         24         24          120    0.10       -      2       2       2       2       2      12
C. Cenk Pracein Frclt
20      20      20      20     20      20    120
0. Juu Leve. Nbatona      e a
Cor L:ee n l                               value                                                                                             4       12     20      20      20      20      96
Me 11 (PCS))h                              val                                                                                                      10      30      40      40      40    16o    M DMe
S    . J 9 PA                             moth          130        260        260        20         260        260        1.430    0.10      13     26      26      26      26      26     143        X
11?    46      76      a6s             6       9
0
Poge 1



117                           Annex 9
Page 7 of 21
0~liEl
0F vs9w5



NEG4,VLS
ROMAMA
EMnloyme  NW Socl Pntadon Prad
Ta  4. Auoatlonm: Socal hasrnce
Detalad Cost
qCanrile                                          r                         Bas  Coad
Unft    8116        S"?7       67135       1"        Om         0U           Total     Ctd   -IN  5-       7 SW?   97111   99ll aTotl
I.  _    tb   Co
A. Software
1. Dealgn. d w    do be
A bnple.a
EJqft (aWd)                               Moh             12         24         12          6          6          6           66   1500      I0o    360      180      90      90      90    990
Eweft o(l)                                 n             36          56          a          6          1          1          106    0.40      14      22       2       2       0       0      42
Traihi  (bd)                               nh             2           4          2          1          1          1           11    a 00      12      24      12       6       6       6      66
Tr.ir   (loc.                             moRth            6          6          2          2          2          2           20    016        1       1       0       0       0       0       3
Subtt                                                                                                                                          207     407     195      99      97      97   1.10
2. Technkal Tt
Eveft (abrod)                             mnR              3          3                                -                       6   15.00      45      45        -       -       -             gO
Traning(Io0al                              Iot                        1I                                                       2    016        0       0                                       0
Subto1al                                                                                                                                            45  45                                      90
3. Moo to   nea & Openai Suppoet
Exped (ocal)                              month            6          6          6          3          3          -           24    0 40       2       2       2        1       1      *       10
i         ~~~4. Uswr Tnhinn
Uswf Doueftn                              vskue                                                                                                -      14       7        -21
Eveft                                      nhbmeM  moth               3          3          -                                  6 1500                 ff      ff                               90
TS nkin(local)h                                            -         65         32         16         16         16          145    o 16              10       5        3       3       3      23
Subtotal                                                                                                                                          -     69      57        3       3       3     134
S. Cantml Poessing Fawcy
Dat Storage DoAcesa                        Ur*S           10          5          7          a          9          a           47    3 00      30      15      21       24      27      24     141
Priersfo                                   uil             2          -                                           -            2   50.00     100        -       -       -                     100
PemorklCompLters                           tanS            3          3          3                                -            9    1.75       5       5        5                              16
AddIori EqwOmeN                            va                                                                                                 20      20       20      20      20      20     120
TrairlngPocal)                            month            6         16         20         15         15         15           87    0 16       1       3        3       2       2       2      14
St oa1                                                                                                                                        156      43       49      46      49      46    391
ServrTypeIII k                             unl             -          4          -          -                                  4   3500         -    140        -       -                     140
Paonal Conur                               uni          200         300                           -                          500    1 75    350      525                                      8 675
ENVeft Pocet)                             month           94         47       235                                           1645 0s40         36       19       9                              66
Training(lc)                                onth          16          3          1           -         -                      20   0o16        3        0       0       -       -        -      3
SU'total                                                                                                                                       390     664       10       -                    .064
Total nvaunt Coas                                                                                                                                  601   1.251      313     149     150     146   2.60
N. Recunun Costa
A. DesIgn dem1.9. bst
a hmlainent
SemiasM.LSP                                 monh            36         36         36         36         36         36          216    010        4        4       4       4       4       4      n
SaI    MOLT                                  ladh            .         36         36         36         36         3           180    0.10                4       4       4       4       4      16
C. Causa Prgeaaalf FaCEly
Conauwmbtss Id                                 1S                                                                                               75       75      75      75      75      75     450
0.U6 AdwSUOIS
ConumamMas10                                 %ska                                                                                                10      30      50      so      50      50     240
Mljq (S-ff)                            'sUSi                                                                                                        a      10      12      12      12      54      00 
U a og)                                                                                                                                      25      75     100     100     100    400  D  
.SflLfPN                                      aid          130        260        260        260        26         260         1,430    010       13      26      26      26      26      26     143      0 
Subboid                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23  as  161    lee  lea    lee     63
0
pop I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 1 



119                               Annex 9
Page 9 of 21
.iiZ
Il ii
F s9sA1



NEGSJCL
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mn mi Ssi Ph4n .e
Enfwwdq>m  n*dksawPrdhsSonFr* c
Tabo S. Proled Ma_mg-t
IOdtId Costs
Quantities                                  Unit                          Be  coat
Unit      96S8       3697      97n=       sa9t       90        36131      Totl    Coat  9398    6H7   97A3    S1SS   S0m   O01w1    Tota
L hwe_sient Costs
A. Project Cowrdinaw*mi
Conpuqx*                                unit             4          4                                                   8    1.75        7        7                -       -        -      14
Ofce Equwp nt & abhbh                   vANe                                                                                            30      20       10       10      10       10      90
Proctrw   ntExpxt                      nwth             12         12        12          -                    -        36   15.00      180     180      180        -       -              540
AudNs                                  vnl                                                                                               -      25       25      25       25      25      125
Accou,ntt                               moxdll           2          2          -         -          -                   4   15.00       30      30         -       -       -        -      60
M_te       &Raepoe.g                   madll             6          6         -                    -                   12   15.00       90      90                 -                -     180
ProcxrmentSr Svce                      month             -         12        12         12         -          -        36    0.40                5        5       5                -      14
Trelnl(abroe                           month             4          4         4          -          -         -        12    6.00       24      24       24        -       -               72
Vehkbs                                  unkt             2          -                                                   2   10.00       20            -            -                       20
Total hnvestment Cots                                                                                                                      381      381     244       40      35       35   1.115
n. Recurrent Costs
A. PCU
Once Suppes la                          vsie                                                                                             3      35       35      35       35      35      178
Saerin                                  yewr             -         5         10         10        10         10        45    1.20                 6      12       12      12       12      54
Veide Maintenance                      car/ywr                      2         2          2         2          2        10    1.20        -        2       2        2       2        2      12
Total Recurrent Cost                                                                                                                         3       43      49       49      49       49     244       r
Tota                                                                                                                                        384     424      293      89       84      64   1,359       0
imA dicun tlalphonw. fax, postae. alice consUmables. eftc.
x
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C '
0
paw 1



NEG6JILS
ROMA
Employmt and SocW Protabc   Prca
Tabb 6. EnWioynt Se_Saa: Nnal Local  1  I  gat Sltnck. la
Ddlfld Coat
I                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~S ~
Quantl                               Unlt                         Basa Cost
Unit   9616    96137    373         gem      N00   O0101    Total    cost   35116    6137   373    363    3310    001   Total
L hkrtsent Costs
A. S     tuckara Altarves
Expeb (abroa4                  merih         2                  -         -       -       -        2   15.00      30               -       -       -       -     30
Tralnl  (Awoad                mIri O         5                            -       -                5    6.00      30       -                                      30
Subtoeo  -60                                                                                                                         -               -       -      60
IU. hIt    Riso
Expb (abro(                    mi            3             -              -       -       -        3   15.00      45               -       -       -              45
Tralnln(abroad)                mAeh          5             -         -        -           -        5    6.00      30                               -       -      30
EurreNaels                     vdkm                                                                              ISO                                             150
V    N     t                    ut           3        -         -         -       -       -        3   10.00      30           -           -       -0
Subtotal                                                                                                           255               -       -       -             256
C. Staff Development
Expa  (b-                      monUr.                 1         1         1       .I               3   15.00              1 5     1 5     1 5                    45
Tmnlngar (ob                    mond         -        2         2         2                        6    6.00.             12      12      12           -          36
Subtotal                                                                                                             -      27      27      27       -              61
t          ~~~D. Spesbl Studles
Exp.    (d)                    moh           -        3         3         3               -        9   15.00       -      45      45      45                                       5-135
Expart (la)                    merit         -        3         3         3       -       -        9    0.40       -       I       I       I       -       -      4
Tnhig( brd)                    moeit                  5         5         5       -       -       15    6.00       -      30      30      30       -              90
Trah*gOocal)                   monE          .        ,        15        10                       25    0.16                       2       2           -           4
Subtotal                                                                                                             -      76      79      78       -       -    233
E. Labor Market Policy
Expe   (abroami                                       2         2         -       -       -        4   15.00              30      30       -               -      so
Tranh   (abrod)                mo            -        2         -                                  2    6.00        -     12                           -          12
SubtoWl                                                                                                              -      42      30       -                       2-  7
Total                                                                                                                 315     145    136    106         .            701
|     Ass   US DpL o Labor oina l_n d iITA and taing.
0
Pme~~~~~~~~ I
Mt



INEG7 XLS
ROMANtA
Empbonlt nd SocW Prdtedtkn Projct
Tdb 7 Empbl nt Senae: Loodl Labw OMw Is
'u e    D    CeEC
UIbt    951MM      S97          9716                                   or9, 01      ToI    UrI* Cost  9M1         S 7 371/  Wm                  Dim      TOdl
L. hwestwd Cost
A. M m ent -      Orgezfflt                                                                                                                                        -
1 Vehde                                   vauk                                                                                                                                                          gm
2 Eneitbd)                                mont           -            1            1            -            - I                      2      15.00              15       5       -       -               30
3. EWxf pocb ()                             m10          -            2            2            -            -                         4      0.40               I       I               -       -        2
4 Trelln (ebmud                           morth          -           10           10                         -            -          20       6.00       -      660       0 s o                  ,      120
5. Tr e*  (oca7 lb                       month          -           20           20           20           20          20           100      0.16               3       3       3       3       3       la
6. EIdnlrg Judd Labor Ofels
Rehebatlon                             1000 m2         -                        10          10                          -          20   0.OSmn2                -    500    500         -            1.OO
Eqpm ntMtrl                             o.o                         ,                       20             .            .           20     15.00                             300                    1,300
gubOoW                                                                                                                          SW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    0  am      1.300
7. New Judt Labor Offices
Cil Warks k                            1OW m2          -                        5            10           10            -           25   0241m2        -           1200   24Q0   2.400              6,000
E       _     _                         dlerMIee      .             .            ,           10           10           10          30      3000O       -1- 2-    300    300                  3W       900
Subtti  .200   2.700   2.o700--                                                                                                                                                                        6.900
S. erbiI Labor Offces
Ch11sc                                  a1ke W                      -65                      65            -            -          130      1.50               -      96      96                      195
Equipmer                                die                                                               65          65           130      2.50                       -       -    163      163      325
Subttl                                                                                                                                                                  98      i8     163     163      520
au,_I "                                                                                                                                                           79   2.377   3,601   2,866    466    9.388
*. Labor Exchenge
Expe.t (ablned)                           month          -            1            2            2            -            -            5     1500         -     15      30      30                -       75       ,
ES vet o                                  moth                        2            4            4                         -           10      0 40               1       2       2                        74
Subtotal                                                                                                                                                    -     16      32      32        .       -       79
C. SefW41cted Job Seerh
Epertt(ebP ed)                            month                       1            2            2                         -            5      15.00       -     15      30      30        -       -       75
ESbe0lPocat)                              month          -            2            4            4            -            -           10       0.40              16      2        2                       74
S..,ta                                                                                                                                                      -     16      32       32       -       -       7
D. Job DeelpmWnU
Job Creeflof
EVew1 (abrad)                                             -           4            4                                                   a -  8  15.W       -     60      60                               120
Eets 0cal)                                month          -            4            4            4            -            -           12       0.40              2        2       2               -        5
Conipeftes Id                              tN                         -           50                                                  50       1.75               -      8s       -                       86
Subtqtl d                                                                                                                                                         62      149       2       -              212
E Staff Trekng
E2e. (abrd)                               mont"                       3            3            3            -            -            9      1500               45      45      45                      135
Train pocal)                              morth                   1.000        1.0W         1.000         1,0W         1,00c       5.000       0.16             160     160     160    160      16O      S00
Total hae-s utwo Cof                                                                                                                                 .              377   2.794   3.871   3,026    626   10.693
L. Rnecwelt COSea
VeNdS MaVddr_                                                                                                                                               -       -      30      30      30      30      120
sl.if a~                                     Yaw                      S00         1.000        1.750        1.750        1.750        6,750      1.00             500   100 175         1.0 170          6,0
Tuds *- 5W 1,QW 1,750 1,750 1,750 e,7so 877   38624   5,651   48056   240    17587563
wA ssue US Det ot Labor lrmic   den  TA ard btk                                                                                                                                                                      0Q
lb T ,K pur donlum  uid   br u ost per brane e  a cma of 20 fbr  montm. h
le  M o    1S N M-d qby Gotw el t
LU ,taa for job dement  DUVA
aSW 9g_ I m.  based on ed0  1750 statubt 3O0 etIng or  bald 4750 - reenrg Inh  stl:dW ca      o d abot 1:250, wah 1.2 m   ton   eo                                                                                    o
Pap 1



.NE08XLS
I                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROMN
E    Vns imd obelol Pmdweo Pr*d
T4k 6. Enmwr Swlos: h-dUW AduiiwiSenss
I                                                                                        Dd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d Costa
#AS mme
QumnIUe                                   unit                        Urn Cost
Unth     6M      617       6716      mm   _             Owl        TotWl    Cost   -i    96197   97i3  snIm        "M    61   Total
L bivee6in Costs
A. Awaweness
I~~~~~~~~m                                     va Ir_2
E_umr~W                            _d                                                                                      1       1               -       -       -      2
E _t(A.s                          .lh           1       1.5         -         -         -        -        2.5  15.00       15      23              3-       -       -      6
Trabdog(atu4                      meii          5                   -S                                      5    6.00      30       -                       -      -      30
Subtotal                                                                                                                     46      24                                     70
L. Davelop Service
EuamMMws                          Vibe                                                                                      -       6       *      4       3       3      25
Cenpdr                             uni          -         3         2         -                                  1.75               5       4       -                      9 .  S
Velidas                            uni          -         1         1              -I                       2   10.00              10      10       -       -       -     20
E_sb(ubrd                         moAih         -         2         2                                       4 15.W          -      30      30                             so
Subto                                                                                                                                Si      S3      4       3       3    114
C. Pocia POinw Orantadn
4   s.s-aI                        vie                                                                                       -       4       S               - -
0. Staff Tme*i
E _me (bm                         mIw           -         1         2         -                             3 15.00                15      30                             45
E*ft aocrA)                       moih          -         2         3                   -                   5    0.40       -       1       1                              2       .
Trbngn e6bredb                    mmnih         -         2         2         -                             4    6.00       -      12      12       -       .       .     24      r-
Tnrnboce I)h /amodh                             -        S0        50       50          -                 150    0.16               8       8       8       -       -     24
Subtotal                                                                                                                      -      36      51       a               -     Os
UE Tes and aiiplue
Progiam Fund                        _                                                                                       -s-             a       5      4       4      21
E _. (abmoe                       monmh         -         1         2         2         -         -         5   15.00       -      15      30      30                     75
Subtota*                                                                                                                             15      38     35       4       4      -
Tota kha"intd Costs                                                                                                            46     130    147       47       7      7    3S3
L Recurmet Costs
AS.Aww                                er          -                   S         .         .                  10    1.20       -       6       6       .                      12
1E Deveobp Servics
TraovdW Suppl                     vS                                                                                                3      12      12      12      12     51
Seju                              yeaw                   3        12        12       12        12         51    1.20       -       4      14      14      14      14     61
Total PAnirM tCOStO                                                                                                             -      13      32      26      26     26      124
ToCS                                                                                                                          46     142    179       73      33      33    907
l Tnrad. ps ni     h m  iru epemdr res hI a dg d20  er one mrih.
m  m
OQ D
0
pop I



NEGO.)as
,                                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ROM A
6 d 9 P On%
ckmnvTd 9.CrIr                     n    _      e 
A. hWt     C erl
afl Waf  Itwv m it                         m2.                  250        so         40                    40          410         05135                     4       2               2      21
_wto                                       u            -         7         2                                -            9         1.75       .      12      4                              le 1
VW                                         Unll                    I         -                                            I           10.00    -      10           -   -               .     t
Tn*        (dl                           mrZh                     15        a          4          3          3           31         G.               160     35      24      le      la    188
IL hdo  COM
T ga*  (d                                morm                     9         3          2          2          2           la         e 00             54      le      12      12      12    108
C.0_ ~ Apr--                                                                                                                                           10       5       5  S           5      30
\ | B_ mixih - 6~SWOO                                                                            3          2          1         1           13        15.       0 0       o     9 45     30   S5         15    195
Sub&   1)1 k0                                                                                                                                                         35@-1   ----t   3      20  20    228
Pdm        Ib _,,                          vn225    275    375    125    2S0   1250
PCW_                                   *o    50                                                                                                            S0      75    100    125    400
TOW                    -si                                                                                                                            15      10     10      10      10   SS
_ - m~~~~~~~~~~~old                           h         2e        20         20         20         20          10t         0,30                      a^   60   ar 2D6  4e2312
F. Dovlpm  A 1 P           Tdah                                                                                                                                                                            4
F 0: g                                                  *oa       4         ee                   1o         12           40         0.30       -       t       2       2      3       4      12
Tdn*ng (d-                                                        1 2       2           ...14                                       e oo              72     Uo       1s6 2                   4
Tm* Tmw                                   v                                                                                                            3      0    5 2               25       3
_"1W Ttakf I                              4montm         *          -       20        120        360        6tO        1.8 t,ts     o.1hhm             1637           04    2530    435    755
YMM Equovwt  VI&A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 35                                                                          go    225    soo    450   i,300
Tn*ft  0-0  waka~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3                                                                               10      20     25      30      ee
}            ~~~~~Tod hesll__ C0                                                                                                                                  -    788    649    938   i,29   i.472   4.974
". eew  C-f
_UPI                                      v ko                                                                                                        1o     1o       10      o       1o     50
]~ ~ ~~~~~~~~l lby_                                                                  1 3       1 3        1 3        13         t3           65         2-4               31      31      31     31       31    20e
a_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  414   1   1
B. -   5ww         1*0                     vsm10                                                                                                                       io      15      15      5S
It                                     1_-                               5         as       257        4t7          eso          1.20                     Is 1   103    IQ        t     ,1
Tdsl                                                                                                                                                     832    718   1.003   1,29    2.;;   e,204s4
W A_ bd I~~~~C*f)Obrh _If   TA and b_blin C
_b Go_n;w    ch O          WbRnD 30%.                                                                                  >0:
%C Looma msjW  IPId   b    fr Of   scPrwtN  cbM*d dI USlS300 pwr month M tD
MI Th  is i&  wwa pbwn mbr I1180 pea* (250 *M  beduat   930 ltam tg : 8D% Ldor *rd 40% EduobnN  now hk.                                                                                                         X
Ths pWs  in endd at Us51tO pwr nmal  pe bab_, S4 hek 
W CGm  S_W          br wV",,'  Ib   We Csbtd   LO0W We n
I ~~~~V Lot WesmrM    cabfd at USS100 pwr .mmnh 0  
nO I



NE010.XLS
ROMA?NA
Emp Vno  aid Soi P aldba Pfcsc
Tdl 10. AdA & Mmng           Trair":  iona Tu*tg aEd h
Q__U                                       UFA                          14 Cod
U.      936         6W7      o71W      so"        Ill       a1         TOM      Cod    am    NW    ST=    3636                  66a1   TOW
L ~brams mm    b M
A. AMmeuW
ThbR* md S -           -w h                       5         10                                                 15    6.00      30   80                   - -             -      90
EVqfm  r-d                        m               1          I                   .   -                          2   15.00      15      15                                       30
Expers                                            1          4         -               -              -         5    0.40       0       2                -               -       2
_obilow                                                                                                                          15      17            -           -              32
C. mTC No
Ejqit s(                          m                          2         -                                        2   15.00              30        -       -                      30
D. MNwgm.uA. & SUfdEh
Cm6 Wst                             m2                     100                              -         -       100    005                5            -           -               5
I   Eqs~mmi                        Wh V                                                                                                70                -       -        -     70
Cemp_s*MS                                         -         10                                                     10    1.75          s1        -       .                      16
Vahkn                              Ur*                       2                                                  2   10.00        -     20        -                        *     20
Eiqi1(Mdo                          nar            -          5         5                    *                  10   15.00              75       75       -                     150
Trmn*"      d                     mwth                                 a  -  8   6         6         8         26    600         -              36      36      36      48     156
_k                                                                                                                                 -    *88      11       38      36      48     419
Lb RATC Cd_1" A
En-is ( dbr                       mlh             2          -                   -                              2   15.00      30                -       -                -     30               n
F. RATC D_OI Pum
E2q31(abremd                      mnnth          12                                                   -        12   15.00     180                -       -                -    180
EsqitsQo)                         mon           12                                     *                       12    040         5       -       -               -               5
TraWg(abOm{d                      monf           30          -                                        -         30    600      180       -       -10
_Ubbow                                                                                                                           365       -       -        -                    365
Towd hsffml.eCoUW                                                                                                                  440    294      111      36       36      46     965
IL PCUw of
A Opera"igqC I                       mofsh          -         12        12        12        12         12         60    250               30      30      30      30      30      150
BSaI..(n                             yeW            5         13        13        13        13         13         70    1.20       6      16      16      16      16      16      64
TOW ROCumntCost                                                                                                                      6      46      46      46      46       46     234
Teem                                                                                                                               446    340       157      82      82      94   1.199
t AAs    b36sUwm' (G.rwis oMfn brdni f    TA wbd ihn drnmd.
I cbO._m~wu.s ~ai bw qs br 13   .
IOQ ti
x
0-n %D
0
Pop I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



,~11.ts
E1  doy w. wid SOd PAdb Pmgd
Tdbl 11. AdA1  M        I T_l:N  Rgim        A dbl Trd*q Caru
U@*~~~..gg                                                                                           Urn C  T
L bfwsernt Cash
A. .d- M_    B
Breft i                             month          -                   3                   -                   3      15.00       -              45                       -      4S
Ew;bOo=                -I.e                                            3                   -         -         3       0.40                       I                               I
T aing TabroC                       11ma.ni        -                   3                   -         -         3       t.oo 0                             -       -              1s
_ .iumiuWs                                         -         -         3         -                             3      1M0.0                      30                              30
Cam s                         ,                               ,        3                    ,                  3       1.75       -               s                       -       5
*N .                                 UnI           -         -         3                   -         -         3       10t00                     30       -                      30
__1o                                                                                                                                -       -      29                       -     129
L V.c.Nuui P eVow
IB     _ase 4ts1 d                  mo                       -       110                                      110      1500           -        1,650                           1.650
BuIuh(1u14                          rnih                             120                   -         -       120       0.40                      46                              4e
Tr*"  !  _ 4                        ..Uud                             60                                      s eo  -  -    .o0o                3                               360
Iq  p    M- _Ih                    pmg"            -                   3                                       3   2.,000                      6,000       -                    OS,0
C. Pasd_ Oiwkpmuh
Cm Via b                          psr,             -         -         3                                       3    eww           -       - 1.w           -O
E*sht  _d I 1 :4                    nxmm3                                                  -         -         3       15.W               -      45               -              45
3                            - 3        3       0.40                     1                                 I
Subkpbd~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-                                                                              .4             1.846
D. C   em_ing ad P_  s l r
E*GwiA(d-tedmonthNi                                                    3              -              -         3       15.00      -       .       5       .                      45
8  Is0A                             laid           -                   3                                       3       0.40       -I                      -                        1
T.Niihtrasd                         moiii,11       -                   3          -                  -3                600                        la                              la1
n        _h -4 Ilobperaft-                                             3                   -         -         3       10.00              -      30                               30
lubl                                                            -*                                                                                 94                               94
L Gein" MdEulsa
(3 PEUnU~ PK ido
Eqt n1114                                                              9                                                  9 15.W          -      135           -135
qm                                                 -         -         9                   -         -         9        6.00      -              54        -                      54
T n                                  uh                      -    -                        -         - -3              30.0       - .             90                              90
> * * 3 * * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                     63        3     0W- 263 e
P. CuiemMed Tomb"
P,I    ('                           m              -         -         3                   -                    3      1500                      45        .      .               45
Pe  _@aOno                          mnci                     -         3                   -                    3       040                        I
Trnbw(fm              *c11                                             3                    *                   3       6.w               -       1e -                            Is
_Q~u,wliMimImis                    p. a                      .         3                                       3       50.W                      150                             150
214       --                    214
S qSuWA      P                            i          . I                 3                                        3      151W       -          -       f                            45
T        hpubIu                     mu14                               3                                        3       0.40                     1        -                                      p I
E_ugEWUdn                           p_      _                .        . 3         .                             3      s                  -      150       -      - -150                            
lumeN                                                                                                                                             214                              M 21
N _bu T_                             __ 
__ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50                                                                                         -       -              50    o          -
rp, MI I 66  Von
0
pw I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



NEG1. XLS
untl       -              2               -      -       2     1.75     -     -     4     -            -     4
I b eMbrome               marth                     6a       -                      6    15.00          -    90         -              90
Et Po                       ah                 -       6      -               -      6      0.40 -O- 2                             -     2
T4dhwemu C.                                                                                            .        10,9t6          -        lo.W
A. IATC le
Op_ Cg                    W00 FTE      -      1        3      3       3      3       13  0.2FTE     v   16O   480  480   480   48D  2,080
SI_. .RATC)M                yeW              90      90    90    g0         90      450    2.00     -   18.0   1O   180   180  160   900
Told                                                                                                        340  11,645   680   M0   660  13,966
I USSIO000w per PmW. 20 psupume pw db.
1b RATCe, 12,000 m2 e UWOW2; GVisr,n   budge, ISRO vkburseme 30%.
S  d FPd-Thu. Equ. (FTE) lt bI   b_d an 20 voc.psMO. X 20 bamlo9. X 2(60% WW) Oque   ul.
d 30 staf a ech RATC for *A yee d oran or dOw"mpnt p.po.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Pop. 2



128                     Annex 9
Page 18 of 21
i i        , .E
-   ' I3  ' 
~1l!lXxl



NEG13.XLS
ROMAIA
*                                                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~En tIym, md 6aX  Pr~dbn Pras
TatI 13. Scldzl hats a
D    _atlied Costs
thei    Wa         9613      37M3      NM13      31011      0613       ToWM      Cod    KIM    3113?   mm    1011         101M   0616    ToWm
Li hweuru  Coas
A. Polky Reform (IBM)
EMeft (eroeM /a                   mot            a        12         6                    .          -        26   25 00      200     300     150                         -      w
T,t*ig (ubro.d)                             mKOr-                      -       12         12                              24    600                        72      72       -144
SuMotid                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200  300  222  72        -     794
1. Sendit ScOvey Syatin (3)
E2peit (aboed)                            .MadI           3        1 0        2                                        1 5   1500       45     150      30                         -     225
Evols (locml)                             month           4        44        12          -                    -        6      0.40       2      1a        5                        -      24
Trvir*ig(sdoeMd                           mNOntI   1   12                    1 2                                       25    600         a      72       72                              150
T,uk*g(Lcai                               Moot            -        48          -         --                            46    016                 a        -       -                 
Cola eqlipmmt                             VoJs                                                                                                 10D                                       100
Swbbt                                                                                                                                     53     347      107        -               -     507
2. ContIbuton Record Syuwm (4)
E,woet (Mob-nd                            mont            6         5         2          -                             1 3   1500       90      75       30       -195
EiWesocaI moo fnth                                        3         3         3                                         9    0.40        1       1        1                                4
Trd,*i(locd                               mowrth         1 2       1 2       1 2         -                             36    0.16        2       2        2      .-       .6
SubGoW                                                                                                 ~~~     ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~93  78  33  .204
EM-fut (abr-ed                            marati          2         6         6          -         -1 4   15.00                         30      90       90       -                -     210
E,:p. tApoQ                               month                              1 a                              -        18    0.40                 .       7       .        .       .       7
Tuuk*V (abroud                            month           1         2        12          -         -.                   15    600        6      12       72       -                       90
TnaI*V (lol)                            I.onth               1   12         6                               -         19    0.16       0       2        1                        -       3
SubWohi                                                                                                                                   36      104     170        -                     310
4. PoNcy S, Evakuaon (6)
Epefts (absoad)                           mard                      9                    -          -.9   15 00                                135        -       -135
Expert Po-eI                              morth          24        24        24         24          -96    0 40                         1 0      1 0     1 0     10        -       .      36
TraInIg(OOUI)                             miorth                     -       10                     -                   10    016e                -       2       -2
SubloW                                                                                                 ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  145  I11  10  -175
L. Organlzalofi DOeaOMPmne (7)
Expeet i bro.)                            month          23         9         7          4          -.                  43   15.00     345     135      105      s0o                      4
Expwt.loaI                                mo-.nth        24        24        24         24        24        24         144    0.40      10       10      1 0     10      10      10       56
Tr""                                      . ~om)  onth    4         6                    .          -                   10    6.00      24       36                                       so - 6
Trvir" IOOd)                              ,mont           6        1 2        6          -                              24    0.16       1        2       1        -       .4
Ocu Equ*mntd                              V,h                                                                                         500     500                -1,000
subbom                                                                                                 am~~~~~~~~~~~~~8    683  116  70  10      10   1.766
SU * 77                 _                                                                   n W  e.071   1T356  437   79      10      10   2.963
TOW                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.271   1.656  659  151  10  10   3,757 
I   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-
00 0
Xb                                                                                                                                           siW-f  347 won s-                 -       -s s,
pop I9 Centrlbilen bcetd Sy"_ {
I   Eipelb (d)                       nh             e          s         2          -         -         -         13   1500        90      75      30        -       -        -    195~Page 



NEII4 .LS
ROUMAPG
_          _-  bIo d P bn PP*d
Trb 14. b     _ _ A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d o_C_
awUsm                                       UFA                         am cod
UFA       IM11         "my        wo                            am US  i              cm ICll                WMIU    I                      Told
L lwoweeWd 0m
A. Pelky Rleu
1. Pelkyc ALdue. c_pd_ 
PI _ .bu.i                                                           2                    2                                          4   1100       30       -     30                             s o -0
Trg       a_                                       _                            -         6          *                               12    too    3e               3-                             n
_S~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ee                                                                                         *     e                -       -    1N
L A*udlsdosellon      mme la
ENpe* WII                                          _                 4                               -         *          *           4   15.0D     eo                                            OD
Trag Po4b l b                                     m                                                  - m  e so                             O                1        - 3                    -     13
T|k rb AD                                                                                                                                            -       4              -                      4
a_  eo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                                           17        n                           7
EqambWuuu                                                                      3          2                     *      -  -                 f 15.00         45     30               -       -     75
Toddrg fA4 (b                   *O                                                                                                                           2       *                             2
Tratb Mi4__                                        _                                                                                                 -       1       -      -               -      1
11101111915                                                                                                                                                          30                             7
S_OWd                                                                                                                                                  126      e5              -                    237
1. hd      cash  ColoofW
CMd  A   *                                         m2            40                                                               4,DD0   0.06    225                                            225
Trah Trainers _5*t  -                                                5                                                                5   1500     75                                            75
TtenSW2 -I   la                                                     39          *                                                    33   0.16       6 a             -              . -
TraWir      4,0                                   edh                                                                                                5                                      -     85
Fam                                               edie                                                                                             4800    MD                                   1.300
Tr        M                                       e                                                                                                  2       -       -              -              2
PrCeAso_ M.ni                                     Von                                                                                               30                                      -     30
CU.equom usNo                                     'e'                                                                                              250                                           250
Sobe                                                                                                                                                1,153    30      D       0      0         -  2,303
E Iw    bmdI m                                                       6         e                     -         -                     14  15.0       90    120            -          -            210
Truit (zc) 4                                      %am                                                                                               10       .       .      .       .             10
100    120                                   220
E0_W   he                                                            *          2         -          -                                2   15.00       -     30              -       -             30
Trb*t  wnbb h . 1k                                                                                                                                           I                                     I
Trd*g P" A                                          nih                                                                                               .      2                                     2
sub-                                                                                                                                                          33       -      -33
4. OubWedolPubll*t Cuvmpeip t
TV Reo  I_    e eV                                                                                                                                  35      15      10     10      10             so
EIuW( ,e                                          m                  3        0.5        0.5                              -           4 15.00       45       a       a              .       -     e0
Empub ODCd@                                       mha                3          1         1          1         1          -           7   0.40       1       0       0      0       0       -      3
Tretb  0mad In                                    wi                                                                                                65      65       -                      -*   130
_im                                                                                                                                                  146      as      18     10      10            2 2 7
S. SNWBbpTrldb  Meeds Una                                                                                                                                                                               I0.
E2t ad0                                            wnh               -         3                     -         -                      3   15.00       -     45       .         .    -       .       f
Tr   i(debrad)                                    t-                           4                                                      4    6.00             24       ,       ,      ,       ,
IL Prod Penlee  Is                                                                                                                                                                                      C) XO
0
Pop. I



131                             Annex 9
p 'COP   I                                                     Page 21 of 21
F-~~
a. e-
a.~~~b
a.~~~l
.
c
a
.,.aW
ii'g!il     l   iii,  ii.
.2i           i          IF I9Iss is,,S



132



133
ROMAMA  _IPLOVMPIT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROCT                            ANNEX 10
etnmwv of Te lhnW Ass__ttm                          Page 1 of 5
NUtNAM   OF MONTH6      -
SU*co111INT          D        escWna  OF sVICm   TOM ACAW  3/3  93137   37/36   33    99100   00/01   TOTAL
IA. MONITOU1I &         Develop a  Ipont training
EVALUATION               NIS                             1                 12       6                                18
Load TA              24                                        24
Dvel  sopdal sbetne MIS         1                  12      6                                18
op______________ ____________ _   Local TA  =   24    =_=_                     =       24
Conduet enrployment
_vdluaton survy                 1                          8       8                        16
Lool TA                     12      12                        24
Conduot soobl _uultno
_v__ uedon surves               1                          8       a                        16
Lool TA                      12      12                        2 $
Conduct Integrated household
_ _ _ _ uMWy_                   1                          5       S                        10
Local TA                      5       5                        10
EabOth ocoupotlondo  soty
Info & dooumentatlon service    1                  1                                         1
SU TOTAL        F_eegn TA                                                                                     so
Loool TA                                                      106
I.,. AUTOMATION          __________           __
Autometion of Lbor
Office", Abonal Offic. &
Date Contor             Provide munagent TA              2          6       12      12      9       6                46
__________________    ___________________             Locl TA       9      24      24      18       12      _        87
____________________ Develop spelfloatlone               2          2       2       2                                6
________________                        ~~~~~~~~~Local TA      6      6             _   _              1 2
Deagn, devolop, tet &
=nplemnt oftwwr                 2          3       12      9       6                        30
Local TA             18O     180     60                       420
Carry out technlol training    2                          5                   _             5
Provide maintenanoe &
operabon support                2                  _        1       1                        2
Lool TA                     144     72                        0
Conduct user trohring           2                          4       2       _     _           6
Install & mnintin hardwro at
_ontral proo ning faility       2                  6       6                                12
Locol TA             24      24      12      12       12      84
Install & maintain hardware at
Nti. Office, Judet & Loai
Offiosa                      Local TA     132      55      ____                             187
SocileAssistance        D dgn, develop & implmnt
Automation               softwore                        2          3       5       5       2        2       1       18
_  LocTA             12       6       6       1       1        26
Carry out technicoa training    2          =       =        1      =        =                1
Provide mainmence &
operation suppon             Local TA      3       6        6       3       3               21
Provide user training            2                  3       3       -        -



134
ROMANIA WPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                           ANNEX 10
Sumrnw  o Idicol Ai ano                                       Page 2 of 5
N 1MERM OF MONTHS
SUsCOMPON WT         DECRIPTION OF SViCE   TON PACKAGE  96/96   96/97   97/s6   s6/ss   99100   00/01   TOTAL
Provide operatonw support at
judet vl. natonal office &
labor office                 Local TA      94      47     23.5                              164.6
Deaign, develop, tet &
Social hkanco Autonwton ilement software                            12      24      12       6       6       6        66
LoOai TA     36      56       6       a        1       1       106
Provide tochrieal training      2           3       3                  _                     6
Provide rnaintenance &
operaton support             Local TA      6        6       6       3       3       _        24
Provide user training           2                  3        3                                6
Provide operations support
(server type 111)            Local TA      94      47     23.5                _            164.5
SUSTOTAL                                      Foreign TA                             _   _     _              209
Locel TA                                                      1296
I.C. PROJECT
MANAGWANT                Procurwmnt epert                 3         12      12      12                                36
Procurment servicbo          Local TA              12      12      12                        36
Management & Reporting          3           6       6                                        12
Accountenting assistance        3          2        2                                        4
Auditing services 1/            3                  _1       1       1       1       1        5
SUTOTAL                                       Foreign TA                                                       57_  _  _   67
Local TA                                                       36
MA. WMPLOYMET
SERVICES                                                                    _ 
Nltiona/ & ALcal
Management Structur      Review structural  nefatvec     4                   2       _       _       _                2
Introduce refinements           4                   3                                        3
Support staff development       4                   1       1       1                        3
Conduct studies in labor
mnarket policy                  4                   3       3       3                        9
Loca TA               3       3       3                         9
Refine labor market policy      4                   2       2                                4
Support management &
Local Labor Offices     organization                     4                   1       1                                2
Local TA              2       2                                4
Devlop plan procedures &
materials to improve client
intake, registration & job
referral                        4                   1       2       2                        5
Local TA              2       4       4                        10
Develop self-directed job
*oorch program & training
materials                       4                   1       2       2       _                5
Local TA     _        2       4       4                        10
Deveop expanded employer
services & staff training
materls;                         4                  4       4                   _             8
Local TA              4       4       4                        12



135
ROMANIA EPLOYbAENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                          ANNEX 10
Smnwmrv of T chScl Assistanoo                                Page 3 of 5
___________  _ _   _  NUM    OF MONTHS
*UBCOMPONWNT         DESCRTnION OF SWY1CES  TOR PACKAGE  _9106  96R/7   37/3   361119   39100   00/01   TOTAL
Provide trsiring for loal office
staff                           4                  3       3       3                         9
1hdutuWA4kaatmwt        Develop eware n   of me"s
Servkos 2/              bvof technus                     65                 1      1.5                               2.6
Develop srvioes                 5                  2       2   1                     __      4
_ Trn field staff                  5        __6 _    1        2                                 3
Lood TA      =        2       3       =       =                5
FRid tet 2 pilot sites where
_n_s layoff *are nticipated     6       _          1       2       2                         5
3UBTOTAL                                      Foeign TA                          II_                         64.5
Local TA                                                       so
*.B.CARIEER FORMATION Develop plan for CICWG
& COUINSELING 31        eot*tivlues                      6                  6       3       2       1        1       13
Local TA             10                  _                     10
D evlop printed meteridcs    Local TA              26      20      20      20      20       106
Develop & Implemnt traning   Looc TA               4       6       8       10      12       40
SUtTOTAL                                      Forign TA      =               =                                13
Looi TA                                                      156
N.C. ADULT ThAWINOG                                                 =       =       =       =_=_=_
Develop regulatione &
procedure for nadonal &
regional training boardo &
National Tranng Dowrd 4/  RATCs                          7          1       1       _                   _             2
Local TA      1       4                                        5
Develop short-term & long-
term plarn for adult training   7                  2               _                         2
Develop manaogent &
staffing                        7                  5    5  _   _                            10
Define criteria for RATCe and
sat. selection                  7          2                                                 2
Develop detailed plans for
___________________ RATCs                          7         12    _   _                                       12
Local TA     12                                                12
Region&( Adult Training  Define adminlstrative
Centers                 procedures                       a                  3                                        3
Local TA     _        3                                        3
Define vocational profiles for
RATCs                           8       _         120                                       120
LocalITA             120                                      120
Design end complete facUlty
conversion                      3                  3                                         3
Load TA               3                                        3
Develop counedling &
placemnt progrs                 8                  3                                         3
Local TA              3                                        3
Develop goneral duceton
proarams                        8                  9                                         S



136
ROMANIA ESIPLOYMBIT AND *OCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                         ANNEX 10
Im.a ofe TL hnl Au1                                           Page 4 of 5
NIIMPE  OF MONTHS            ___
*UTCOMPOENT             MR     N OF SRVICE   TCO PACKAG   MI/"          /97   97/3   96/C9   99/00   00101   TOTAL
LocalTA               9     _  _      _  _  _    _  _  _        9
Develop oustorrized trairing
rogram                         a                   3                                        3
Lo__l TA              3                                         3
Develop emi entwrprios
tr irirng proarem               8                   3                                        3
Local TA              3                                         3
Develop & provid pedagogic l
treirdng to RATC Inhtrutorc     a          _           e   _     _        _                  e
Looal TA    _         e                                         e
Define proce   nd ocriteria by
which program. wil be
dvWdual Adu/t T orhtp    elocted                         8          _        1                                        I _ _     1
Support occupational training
progrwns                        8          _       4e              46      9_                 2
Support foreign language
proorwn development             8                   e                                        e
SUBTOTAL                                      Foreign TA                                         _            277
Looal TA                                                       167
MA. SOCIAL WSLWANCE  Develop policy framework and
51                         slementaton pln               10         8       12       6          _            _        26
Inprove efficiency of benefite
delive r *tam                   10          3      10       2   1                            15
LoOcITA       4      44       12         _                     e60
Improve contrbution records
I ___________________      ems                           19         6       5        2          _                     13
Local TA    3    3    3                   _           _        9
Irnprove finanoialmnagemwnt    10         2        6       a                                14
=__________________                                 Locl TA                       I= 18             = =  =          18
Develop policy & evaluation
Capablity                       10      _           9                                        9_ 
Local TA     24      24      24       24      _     _          96
Strongthen organizationel
development                     10         23       9       7       4                        43
Local TA     24      24      24      24       24      24      144
SIJSTOTAL                                     Foreign TA                                        _  ___        120
Local TA                                                      327
Strengthen poicy & evaluation
U.S. SOCIAL ASSTANCE capability                          11          2    _          2                    .           4
Review adjudication
_meohrnisms                    11          4                                                4
Review dbility &
_______ ______ ______ handJicapped  benefits  progr-ams   11 _ _ _    3        2    __ _ _5
Integrate eligiblity and
dIsburemnt                      11          5           I                                     5
Intoersto cash benofit          11         _        8                                        14



137
ROMANLA EPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                            ANNEX 10
Summer of Tchnical Aesetenoe                                  Page 5 of 5
_________                        NUMBER OF MONTHS
SUBCOMPONENT         DESCIPTION OF SVICES  TOR PACKAGE  95/96   96/97   97/98 _9U99   99/00   00/01   TOTAL
Develop MIS to aesas*
____a_ prforrnnce *nd efficiency   11                 2                                         2
Improve outroech and deveop
publicity campaign              11          3      0.5     0.5                                4
Local TA      3       1       1        1       1                7
Determine stffing and treirung
needs                           11                  3                                         3
Develop fraud prevention
.!tem 11                                   3      0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5               5
SUBTOTAL                                      Foreign TA                                                      46
Local TA                                                        7
TOTAL                                                                              3011.5
of which faeIgn                                                                     e 6.5
of which local                                                                  2145
1/ Costed as value of US$25,000. estimated auditing expenses (including overhead); estimated 1 month of services per year.
2/ Assumes bilateral financing (US Dept. of Labor).                                           _
3/ Assumes bilateral financing (Canada).
4/ Assumes bilateral financing (Germany).                                                              _
5/ TOR #9, Management Training, can be found in the POM. It is not included here as those activities are
not pan of the project
PACKAGE SUMMARY______
Estimated
S etion Mothod 10                                      bee cost
Package S1                        Short Ust                                      |  1.6 5            ____
Package #2                        Short ULit                                     |  3.7  |_|
Package 53                        Short Ust                                       | 0.9  |
Package #4                        Short Ust                                       | 0.8  |
Package #5 (a)                      NBF                                          | 0.2  |
Package #6 (b)                      NBF                                           | 0.2  |  _____
Package 57 Ic)                      NBF                                          | o0.8
Package *8                        Short Ust                        _                9.5
Package *10                       Short Ust                                       | 2 2.2
Package #11                       Short Ust          _                              0.7  |
TOTAL__ _ __ _             _ _ __ _ __ _    20.4
(a) Bilateral financing: US Dept. of Labor.
1W Bilateral financing: Canada
(ci Bilateral financing: Germany
m:\sabrine\romanialemplyrnt\tasum.xds               _                     _______



I
138



139
llOMIANIA WMPLOYMIENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                       ANNEX 11
Summary of Fellowhime and Tri'snl                              Page 1 of 4
NUMUR OF MONTHS
SfJCOMPONENT          DESCPJPTION OF SERICES       TYPE       96196   96S97   9716  9|8/99   39100   00/01   TOTAL
IA. MONITORNN  &          Develop rnployment training
EVALUATION   TOR #1       MIS                          Foreign TR            7                                         7
Loca TR              50      50                               100
Develop socil a*es nce MIS  Foreign TR    _        7                                        7
Looa TR             50      50                               100
Conduct employment
evaluation surveys          Foreign TR                     4       4                        8
Local TR                      6       6                        12
Conduct social assistance
evaluation surveys          Foreign TR    _                4       4                        8
Looal TR                      6       6                        12
Conduct integrated household
surveys                     Foreign TR                     6       6       6       6        24
Work equiprent sefety       Foreign TR             1                     _                  1
SUBTOTAL    _       ___________    Foreign TR  _=                            =       =       =                55
Loca TR                                                       224
I1B. AUTOMATION TOR #2                                                                             _
Automation of Labor Offices_
National Offices & Data Canter Provide managenent TA   Foreign TR     5       5       2       2                        14
Local TR     5       10       5       5       5               30
Develop specifications      Foreign TR     1       1       1                                3
Local TR     2        2       2       1       1       1        9
Design, develop, test &
implement software          Foreign TR     3       5       8       3       3       3        25
Local TR      3      10      10       8       8       8       47
Carry out technical training  Local TR                    30      15                        45
Conduct user training        Local TR                     360     120                      480
Inwtall & maintain hardware at
central processing faciNty  Foreign TR     2       5       5                                12
Local TR             10      20      10      10       10       60
Install & maintain hardware at
Natl. Office, Judet & Local
Offices                     Foreign TR    20                  _                             20
Local TR     40      25      10      _                        75
Design, develop & implement
Social Assistance Automation  software                 Foreign TR     2       2       1       1       1       1        8
Loca TR       2       1       1       1       1       1        7
Carry out technical training  Local TR                     2                                2
Provide user trairing         Local TR                     120     60                       180



140
ROMANIA E1PLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                          ANNEX 11
Summart of FeIowmhime ernd Tralnino                            Page 2 of 4
NUMUEN OF MONTHS                      |
SUSCOMPONh'T          DESCRImnorwN Of aVICES        TYPE      95/96   96/37   97196   5610   911/00   00101   TOTAL
Provide operation support at
judet level, national office &
labor offices                Loc TR        1       3                                         19
Design. develop, teat &
Social hsurance Automation  implemnent software        Foreign TR     2       4       2       1        1       1       11
Locai TR      6       6       2       2       2       2        20
Provide technical training   Local TR      1       1                                         2
Provide user training        Locai TR      -      65       32      16      16      16       145
Central Processing Facility  Local TR      6       16      20      15      15      15       87
Provide operations support
__erver type 1111            Locli TR     16       3       1                                20
SUCTOTAL                                       Foreign TR                                                      93
Local TR                                              -       1,228
I.C. PROJECT MANAGEIAfET
TOR #3                     Project Coordination        Foreign TR     4       4       4                                 12
SUBTOTAL                                       Foreign TR                                                      12
IIA. ENIPLOYMENT SERVICES
TOR #4
National & Local Management
Structa'                   Review structural alternatives   Foreign TR  5                                               5
Introduce refinements       Foreign TR     5                                                 5
Support stff developmnent   Foreign TR             2       2       2                         6
Conduct studies in labor
market policy               Foreign TR             5       5       5                        15
Local TR                     15      10                        25
Refine labor market policy  Foreign TR             2           _                             2
Support management &
Local Labor Offices        organization                Foreign TR             10      10                               20
Local TR             20      20      20       20      20      100
Staff Training               Local TR             1000   1000   1000   1000   1000    5000
industrial Adjustment Services Develop swareness of mass
TORI5                     layoff technirues            Foreign TR     5                                                 5
Train field staff           Foreign TR             2       2                                 4
Local TR             50      50       50                       150
SUBTOTAL                                    I Foreign TR                                                       62
Local TR                                      =              5.275



141
ROMAN E MPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PSOECT                            ANNEX I11
Summwnt of Fl          d Tr                                    Pogp 3 of 4
NUII OF MONTHS
SUUCOMPO0ifET         DTSCRWFO  OF URtsVI          TYPE       966   96137    7136   3n3   33100   00101   TOTAL
I.B.CARER UdFORMATION & Develop plan for CICWG
COUNSENO TORHI             ctivities                   Foreign TR            15       6       4       3       3       31
Develop & imphemnt trsning   Fordgn TR            12       2                                14
_rInitito CICAG             Foreign TR     9       3       2       2       2                is
Tran Counselors a/           Local TR                     30      460    1440   2720    4720
SUSTOTAL                                      Foreign TR                                                      63
Loal TR                                                      4720
N.C. ADULT TRAINNO                                                           _       _       =_=_
National Traning bord TOR
#7                        Review alterntives           Foreign TR    5       10                                       15
Develop managent &
*taffing                    Foreign TR                     6       6       6       a        26
Develop detaled plan for
RATCs                       Foreign TR    30                  _                             30
SU9TOTAL                                      Forsign TR                                 _                    71
RegionaiAdult Trning      Define *dnSnhstrative
Centews TOR J8            proooduros                   Foreign TR                     3              _                 3
Define vocational profiles for
_ATCs                       Foreign TR                    60                                60
Develop counseling &
placomnt prog rsm           Foreign TR                     3                                3 3
Develop general education
progrsm                     Foreign TR                     0                           _    3
Develop customized training
program                     Foreign TR                     3                                3
Develop small enterprse
training progrwm            Foreign TFR                    3                                3
/ndividualAdult Training TOR  Support occupational training
#8                        program                      Foreign TR            25              25                       50
SUSTOTAL                                       Foregn TR  _                                                   131
W.A. SOCIAL IISURANCE    Develop policV framework and
TOR #10 bi                implemntation plan           Foreign TR                    12      12                        24
Improve efficiency of benofits
delivery system             Foreign TR     1      12      12                                25
Local TR             48                                        48
Improve contribution records
*ytems                       Looal TR     12      12      12                                36
Improve financial management  Foreign TR   1       2      12                                15
Local TR      1      12       S                                19
Develop policy & evaluation
c apability                  Local TR                      10              -         -      10



142
ROMAMA KIPLOYMBT AND SOCIAL PROTECnON PROJECT                             ANNgX 11
umrnwrv of F     _llowshie *nd Trainina                        Pago 4 of 4
|____________       NULM   OF MONTHS
.LOCMP0Wff            DECRPTION OF URVICE           TYPE   T 5196   997   9713    MM    99/00   00101   TOTAL
Strengthen organizabonal
development                 Foreign TR     4       6       _       _                         10
Loo lTR       6      12       6                                24
SUlTOTAL                                       Foreign TR                 I                                    74
Loca TR    .__                                                137
*J. SOCIAL ASSTANCE   Strengthen policy & eluation
TOR 11                     oapdility                   Foreign TR     6               6                                12
Review adjudication
n mohardane                  Looal TR             80                                        S0
Rovhw disability &
handicapped benefits
progrme ol                   Local TR              3                                         3
Integrated cash benefits d/  Local TR     150     150     150     150       SO              750
Integrate eligiblity &
disbureemntc e_    Local TR              32                                                32
Develop MIS to assess
performance *nd efficiency fI    Local TFt         5                                         S
Improve outreach and develop
publicity campagn gl         Local TR     200    200                                        400
Staff trainin               Foreign TR             4
Develop fraud prevention
s stme h/                    Local TR                                              _         0
SUMTOTAL                                       Foreign TR                                                      12
Local TN                                                      1270
TOTAL                  Foreign Trane                                                 - _  _ _-               573
Local TrWnng                                    _                                  t 2,854
a/ Four-month program for 1, I18 people.                               __
bl TOR89, Menagemnt Training, can be found in the POM. It is not Included here as those activitiec are not part
of the project.
c/ 2 days x 45 people. 
d/ Prima staff - 9,000 persona x 2 day; end ditrict staff - 47 ditucts  x 10 persona x 2 woks. 
*I Central staff - 2 days x 10 persons; 47 districts x 2 days x 10 person. 
ft 50 people x 3 days.    i 
g/ Ona day for primarba and 47 distriots.
h/ Included in cah bonefits trldning.                                 =       =       =       =       = 
m:\c brlnaVromaniaaemplymtel lows.xld               I



143                                       ANNEX  12
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA
EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Esnimatd Disbursement Prof e
DI&URSWREENTS                PROFILIE
RD Fiscal yeams     By Cuarter    Cumulative              Romania
and luartes      (US$ MEoni  (US$ Millon)   Project     All Sectors
1995       1        0.0          0.0          0.0%        0.0%
2        0.0          0.0         0.0%         0.0%
3        2.5          2.5         4.5%         3.0%
4        2.5          5.0         9.0%         6.0%
1996       1        3.0          8.0         14.4%        10.0%
2        3.0          11.0        19.9%        18.0%
3        3.4          14.4        26.0%        22.0%
4        4.4          18.8        33.9%        26.0%
1997       1        4.5          23.3        42.1%        34.0%
2        4.8          28.1        50.7%        38.0%
3        5.3          33.4        60.3%        40.0%
4        3.0          36.4        65.7%        46.0%
1998       1        2.5          38.9        70.2%        50.0%
2        2.0          40.9        73.8%        54.0%
3        1.5          42.4        76.5%        58.0%
4        1.4          43.8        79.1%        62.0%
1999       1        1.5          45.3        81.8%        64.0%
2        1.5          46.8        84.5%        70.0%
3        1.5          48.3        87.2%        76.0%
4        1.5          49.8        89.9%        82.0%
2000       1        1.5          51.3        92.6%        91.0%
2        1.5          52.8        95.3%       100.0%
3        1.0          53.8        97.1%
4        1.0          54.8        98.9%
2001       1        0.3          55.1        99.5%
2        0.3          55.4       100.0%
3
4



144



145
Annex 13
Page 1 of 6
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
General Manaaement and Policy Analysis
Project Subcomponent              Performance Indicators
Monitoring and Evaluation        - Completion of design of MIS
- Completion of field test of
MIS
- Number of offices
implementing MIS,
- Completion of design of
evaluation    surveys.
- Completion of field
work/data analysis of
evaluation surveys.
- Dissemination of evaluation
results.
- Impact of evaluation results
on improving policies.
l Automation                     - Strategic plan completed and
approved by Minister.
- Functiorul specification
document completed.
- Number of ICB procurements
of total number (15)
completed.
- Percentage of hardware total
installed and running.
- Percentage of planned user
training completed.
- Percentage of local offices
automated as planned.
Project Management               - PCU staffing completed.
- Percentage of planned PCU
staff training completed.
- Percentage of required PCU
equipment installed.
Employment and Training ComDonent
Project Component/Sub-       Performance Indicators 
Component
Employment Servicesl



146                    Annex 13
Page 2 of 6
1 Administration             Unit costs of delivering services
Fraud in unemployment payments
2. Labor exchange             Labor office job placement rates
Savings in unemployment benefits
3. Job Search/Job Clubs       Labor office job placement rates
Client initiated placement rates
Savings in unemployed benefits 
4. Job Development           Number of job vacancy listings
Savings in unemployment ben'efits_
5. Industial adjustment      Job placement rates
services for mass layoff    Units costs of placing displaced
workers with and without services
6  Career Counseling         Job placement rates for adults
Job retention rates for adults
Dropout rates in active programs
Placement rates from active pgms.
lJob satisfaction ratings



147
147             ~~~~Annex 13
Page 3 of 6
Adult and Mat. Traininc
1.  Adult Training (all     Unit costs of different programs
types including general       with different clients under
vocatoinal).                  different economic conditions
Savings in unemployment benefits
Placement rates for unemployed
Placement rates for initial job
seekers
Job retention rates
Job salary levels for trainees
Cleint job satisfaction ratings
Employer satisfaction ratings
Worker productivity measures
2.  Managment Training      Enterprise productivity
Industrial relations/strikes
Partnerships with foreign firms
Ratio middle-management/total
employees
Enterprise profitability
Balanced activity portfolio
Partnerships with foreign training
institutions
Romanian enterprise cases
Number of new contracts
Social Protection Component
Social Insurance Indicators
OBJECTIVES                         INDI CATORS
1. Policy framework.             - Social Insurance Law
submitted by government.
- Social Insurance Law passed
by Parliament.
- Specific implementation
decrees issued by Government.
2. Complementary private         - TA terms of reference put
pension scheme.                  out to bid.
- Completion of options
review.
- Completion of enabling law
and implementation regulations
and submitted to Parliament.



148                    Annex 13
Page 4 of 6
3. Efficient client-oriented    - Staff training plan in
benefit delivery system.         client orientation completed.
- Percent of staff targetted
for this training who have
received such training
4. Integrated contributions      - Plan completed record
collection and recording         keeping system.
system which is compliance       - Software development
oriented.                        completed for implementing
plan.
- Equipment procured and set
up.
- Records system trial tested.
- Records system fully
operational.
- Development of unit for
compliance.
- Staff trained.
5. Accounting and financial      - Strategic plan for financial
management.                      management completed.
- Operational plan and
guidelines completed.
- Percent of staff trained in
financial management and
control techniques.
6. Policy and evaluation         - Automated forms completed.
capability through use of MIS.  - Work flow plans for
information completed.
- Percent of staff trained in
work flow procedures.
- Standard system reports
completed.
- Percent of managers trained
in report analysis.
- Accounting study completed
on options for accounting
system.
- Accounting system option
decided and implemented.



149                   Annex 13
Page 5 of 6
7. Organizational development.  - Management reform unit of
MOLSP appointed.
- Complete strategic.plan for
new SIO.
- Complete operational plan
for new SIO.
- Complete staffing.
- Percent of required training
completed.
Social Assistance Indicators Matrix
OBJECTIVE & ACTIVITIES           INDICATORS
1. Integrated cash benefit law (i) Regulations are issued
& regulatory decisions
2. Policy and evaluation        (i) No. of reports written by
capability                      policy unit containing policy
options, evaluation of
_programs
13. Claim adjudication          (i) Plan exists, approved by
mechanisms                      MOLSP management
(ii) Training materials exist
4. Review handicapped and        (i) Report is prepared, an
disability benefit programs     implementation plan is
_developed
S. Implementation of the         (i) No. of claims and No. of
integrated cash benefit         benefits granted, time elapsed
program
(ii) Procedure manuals exist
(iii) No. of additional staff
I _______________________________  appointed,  trained
6. Integration of social        (i) No. of steps to pay
insurance/social assiFtance     benefits
payments
7. Management Information        (i) No. of indicators
System                           collected
8. Improve community outreach   (i) Outreach materials
and develop a publicity of new  developed
Ibenefit
9. Staffing and Training Unit   (i) No. of staff trained under
_program



I
150
150            ~~~Annex 13
Page 6 of 6
10. Fraud prevention/control    (i) No. of fraudulent cases
detected



151
Annex 14
Page 1 of 33
PROJECT ACTIVITY MATRIX
Part I. General Policy and Management
A. Monitoring & Policy Analysis
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
1. DeveloD Management and Information   i.  Review existing evaluation
System usinQ administrative data for    nroQrams: Review programs developed
evaluation and planning of emvlovment   for evaluating employment programs
proQrams: Improve the cost                in several countries, including
effectiveness and targeting of            those in pilot programs in Romania
employment programs.                     developed under TACI and PHARE
projects.
ii. Refine: in cooperation with the
Automation and Employment
Departments, procedures for
evaluating the impact of employment
programs for different types of
clients.
iii. Field Test: in at least two
Judets, refined procedures, for
evaluation, planning, and budgeting
of local employment programs.
iv. Finalize and Disseminate
Materials: Finalize procedures,
integrate data collection and
evaluation procedures into the
automated data system, develop
staff training materials. Train at
least one person at each Judet and
related staff at the national
level. Integrate evaluation and
planning materials into local and
national operations including
employment, policy analysis and
revision.



152
Annex 14
Page 2 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
2. DeveloD Manaaement and Information  i.  Review existinQ evaluation
System using administrative data to    programs; Review pilot programs
evaluation and Dlannina of social       developed for evaluating the pilot
assistance oroarama: Improve the cost  projects under the Japan Grants.
effectiveness and targeting of social
assistance programs.                     ii. Refine; in cooperation with the
Automation Department and Department
of Social Assistance, procedures for
evaluating the impact of social
assistance programs for different
types of clients.
iii. Field Test: in at least two
Judets, refined procedures, for
evaluation, planning, and budgeting
local social assistance programs.
iv. Finalize and Disseminate
Materials: Finalize procedures,
integrate data collection and
evaluation procedures into the
automated data system, develop staff
training materials, and train at
least one person at each Judet to
integrate evaluation and planning
materials into local and national
operations.



153
Annex 14
Page 3 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
3. Evaluate how effective emvlovment   i.  Select topics and hypotheses to
service and traininQ Droarams are in   be tested concerning program
helDinQ clients as compared to non-    effectiveness. At minimum these
clients and thereby imnrove proarams.  include employment service
Undertake special establishment or      effectiveness in placing clients in
household survey data for this          jobs and training program
purpose in selected judets.             effectiveness in improving job
prospects with higher wages.
ii. Formulate analytical and sampling
methodology to collect information on
both participants in programs and
non-participants in programs.
iii. Plan and implement field
interviews, clean and process data
for descriptive tabulations,
including descriptive report within
six months of field work. To be done
in at least 3 judets.
iv. Carry out analysis and
evaluation of program effectiveness,
including detailed report and
executive summary report in clear
simple language for policy makers
within one year of fieldwork.



154
Annex 14
Page 4 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
4.  Evaluate how effective social       i.  Select programs, topics and
assistance _roarams are in  helping    hypotheses to be tested concerning
clients as comnared to non-clients      program effectiveness. These would
and thereby imnrove oroFrams.           include at minimum effectiveness of
Undertake special household surveys    program-at lifting households from
(non-administrative data) in selected  poverty and impact of program on
judets for this purpose.                labor supply behavior of households.
ii. Formulate analytical and sampling
methodology to collect information on
both participants in programs and
non-participants (control groups).
iii. Plan and implement field
interviews, clean and process data
for descriptive tabulations,
including descriptive report within
six months of field work. To be done
in at least 4 judets.
iv. Carry out analysis and
evaluation of program effectiveness,
including detailed report and
executive summary report in clear
simple language for policy makers
within one year of fieldwork.
S. Monitor trends in living standards  i.  Review results and lessons of
by continuing Integrated Household      nation wide IRS carried out under
Survey (IHS)  started under TACI.       TACI Project.
ii. Plan and carry out second nation
wide IHS in time for results with
mid-term review of project. Contract
with NCS or other organization with
field survey capacity.



155
Annex 14
Page 5 of 33
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY ACTIVITIES
Goal: Increase the welfare and productivity of workers and decrease the social
insurance expenses by reducing the accidents and diseases in the work place.
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
1. Improve the data collection and      (i) Establish the information system
dissemination system on occupational   structure which should used for
safety at the national level.           collecting and processing data in the
Work Protection Department according
to the legislation.
(ii) Evaluation of the demand for
data processing in ICSPM activity.
- What data can be computerized.
- Work required for computerization.
(iii) Establish the hardware
structure and software required for
(i) and (i).
(iv) Ensure the appropriate
conditions for setting up the
counting and telecommunications
equipment, etc., staff training.
(v) Purchase and install appropriate
equipment.



156
Annex 14
Page 6 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
2. Improve the information and          (i) Establish, with the help of a
documentation activity in the field    consultant, the structure of a
of occupational safety at the           National Service of Information and
national level.                         Documentation; select the proper way
in which we better arrange the
information according to CIS-BIT.
(ii) Establish the need to complete
the documentary stack for medium
term.
(iii) Establish the probable users
and the best ways for information
supply, depending on the users,
requirements.
(iv) Establish the structure of the
equipment for data stocking and
processing and also for multiplying
devices required for information
dissemination.
(v) Ensure the best conditions for
installing equipment, training staff.
(vi) Purchase and install appropriate
equipment.



157
Annex 14
Page 7 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
3. Increase the safety level of the    (i) Carrying out a data bank with
work equipment.                         standards on safety requirements of
the technical equipment according to
the legislation in the IC and CBN
standards.
(ii) Zatablish the methodology of
certification and self-certification
of the work equipment according to
EBC and national regulations.
(iii) Determine the equipment need
for the tests required by the
certification procedures; establish
the required site. for equipment.
(iv) Determine the demand for
services and work provisions.
(v) Purchase and install appropriate
equipment.



158
Anngx 14
Page 8 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
4. Improve the evaluation capability (i) Eutablish the measurement types
of the work conditions at the level    required to estimate the work
of the economic agents to establish    conditions according to the Work
the exposure risks and normalization   Hygiene Norms.
procedures.
(ii) Establish the measurements
procedures and determine the demand
for measurement methods accepted all
over Europe.
(iii) Evaluation of the needs for
measurements and analyses for
services and research.
(iv) Establish the types and
quantities of the equipment needed in
correlation with 4.b and 4.c.
(v) Drawing up a system to store up
and process the measurement results
with the view to create a new data
bank organize on activities.
(vi) Establish the required transport
vehicles and the consumable materials
for medium term.
(vii) Purchase and install
appropriate equipment.



159
Annex 14
Page 9 of 33
B. AUTOMATION
Goal: To improve the management, planning and execution of MOLSP employment
services, social insurance, social assistance programs through the implementation
of efficient, cost-effective and reliable information systems.
Blement 1: Automation of Labor Offices, National Office and National Data Center
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIVITIES
1.    ManaQement: to improve            (i)   Prolect ManaQement: Develop the
management, planning and automation    MOLSP Information Resources Management
activities coordination.                Directorate (IRMD) effectiveness in
management, planning and coordination
of MOLSP automation activities,
including: revision and elaboration of
the automation strategic plan;
procurement of equipment and services;
management and evaluation of
contractors; and coordination with
other activities funded under the
overall project.
(ii) SDecifications: Refine, revise
and update specification for computer
and related equipment procurements;
and, develop specifications for the
procurement wide area network
equipment and telecommunication
services.
2.    Software: to provide software    (i)   DeveloDment: Design,
fqr the automation of MOLSP             Development, Test and Implement
National, Judet and Local Offices       software and related user procedures
activities.                             and training for the following:
(a)   Employment Service, including
Labor Exchange System, Job
Training, Counseling, and active
employment programs;
(b)   Unemployment insurance claim
registration, adjudication and
benefit payment;
(c)   Labor Fund management, including
collection of contributions
data, compliance activities,
accounting and auditing;
(d)   Labor Market Information and
Social Indicators;



160
Annex 14
Page 10 of 33
(e)   Indexation, off-setting, post
OBJECTIVES                                ACTIVITIES
payment auditing and cross-matching of
benefits;
(f)   Efficient data exchange witH
other MOLSP components and
external organization
(governmental and non-
governmental); and,
(g)   MOLSP Administrative support,
including financial management,
budgeting, planning, personnel,
payroll, procurement, and
property and inventory
management.
(ii) Methods: Provide both practical
(on-the-job) and formal training for
MOLSP systems analysts and
programmers, addressing: software
design and development methods;
systems documentation; the use of CASE
tools; configuration management
methods; and, preparation for on-going
maintenance of the software in
development.
(iii) Sunoort  Provide post-
implementation support in facilities
management; systems operations and
production control; trouble shooting;
and, software management and
maintenance.
(iv) User Training. Train MOLSP
National, Judet and Local Office
personnel in the use of the delivered
software.
3.    Comnuter Installation: to          (i)   National Data Center: Provide
provide and install the computers        and install the computer(s) and
and related equipment needed to          related equipment needed to support
support automation of MOLSP              the MOLSP National Data Center. This
Employment Services, Labor Market        includes specified operating system,
Information and Administrative           utility software, and other licensed
activities.                              software; peripheral equipment
including printers, data storage
devices, power conditioning equipment,
etc. Provide warranty services and



161
Annex 14
Page 11 of 33
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIVITIES
routine, periodic and emergency
service for delivered equipment and
software.
(ii) Judet Data Centers: Provide and
install the computer(s) and related
equipment needed to support the MOLSP
offices at the Judet level (40
Judet/County Offices and 7 Sectors in
Bucharest). This includes specified
operating system, utility software,
and other licensed software;
peripheral.equipment including
printers, data storage devices, power
conditioning equipment, etc. Provide
warranty services and routine,
periodic and emergency service for
delivered equipment and software.
(iii) Local Office Comnuters: Provide
and install the computers and related
equipment needed to support the MOLSP
Local Offices (approximately 130
Offices). This includes specified
operating system, utility software,
and other licensed software;
peripheral equipment including
printers, data storage devices, power
conditioning equipment, etc. Provide
warranty services and routine,
periodic and emergency service for
delivered equipment and software.
[PC's anticipated]
(iv) Schools: Provide and install
personal computers (with operating
systems) and printers to support the
Computer Aided Career Information and
Counselling initiative in MOLSP
Offices and selected schools.



162
Annex 14
Page 12 of 33
Blement 2: Automation of Social Assistance Service
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIVITIES
1.    Software: to provide software    (i)   Development: Design,
for the automation of MOLSP Social      Development, Test and Implement
'Assistance program at the National      software and related user procedures
and Judet level.                        and training for the following:
(a)   Social Assistance claims taking
and adjudication;
(b)   Payment of benefits and
distribution of in-kind
benefits;
(c)   Management of institutional care
and related grants to Judet and
Local administrations;
(d)   Social work, counseling, etc,
case management and reporting;
(e)   Indexation, off-setting, post-
payment auditing and cross-
matching of benefits;
(f)   Efficient data exchange with
other MOLSP components and
external organization
(governmental and non-
governmental); and,
(g)   Integration with MOLSP general
administrative and management
information systems (including
necessary augmentation of such
systems that may be required to
effectively support the MOLSP
Social Assistance program).
(ii) Methods: Provide both practical
(on-the-job) and formal training for
MOLSP systems analysts and
programmers, addressing: software
design and development methods;
systems documentation; the use of CASE
tools; configuration management
methods; and, preparation for on-going
maintenance of the software in
development.
(iii) SupDort: Provide post-
implementation support in facilities
management; systems operations and
production control; trouble shooting;



163
Annex 14
Page 13 of 33
software management and maintenance.
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIVITIES
(iv) User Training: Train MOLSP
National and Judet Office personnel in
the use of the delivered software.
2.    Comouter Installation: to          (i)   National Data Center: Provide
provide and install the computers       and install the computer equipment
and related equipment needed to         required to expand the capacity of the
support automation of MOLSP Social      MOLSP National Data Center to meet the
Assistance program.                     needs of the Social Assistance
program. This includes, as necessary,
a;ugmentation of: operating system,
utility software, and other licensed
software; peripheral equipment
including printers, data storage
devices, power conditioning equipment,
etc. Provide warranty services and
routine, periodic and emergency
service for delivered equipment and
software.
(ii) Judet Data Centers: Provide and
install the computer equipment and
related equipment needed to support
the MOLSP Social Assistance services
at the Judet level (40 Judet/County
offices and 7 Sectors in Bucharest).
This includes specified operating
system, utility software, and other
licensed software; peripheral
equipment including printers, data
storage devices, power conditioning
equipment, etc. Provide warranty
services and routine, periodic and
emergency service for delivered
equipment and software.
Element 3: Automation of Social Insurance Service
1.    Software: to provide software    (i)   Development: Design,
for the automation of MOLSP                    Development, Test and Implement
National, Judet and Local Office               software and related user
Social Insurance activities                    procedures and training for the
including augmentation of                      following:



164
Annex 14
Page 14 of 33
administrative, management              (a)   Contributions Data Collection --
information and decision support              Collection of data regarding
systems.
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIVITIES
contributions made to social
insurance funds by workers
employers, etc.;
(b)   Social Insurance funds
management, budgeting, control
and investment, and actuarial
analysis;
(c)   Revenue Collection -- systems to
ensure that monies payable to
the Social Insurance Funds are
received, accounted for, etc.;
(d)   Social Insurance claims taking
and adjudication;
(e)   Payment of benefits;
(f)   Indexation, off-setting, post-
payment auditing and cross-
matching of benefits;
(g)   Efficient data exchange with
other MOLSP components and
external organization
(governmental and non-
governmental);
(h)   Integration with MOLSP general
administrative and management
information systems (including
necessary augmentation of such
systems that may be required to
effectively support Social
Insurance Services)
(ii) Methods: Provide both practical
(on-the-job) and formal training for
MOLSP systems analysts and
programmers, addressing: software
design and development methods;
systems documentation; the use of CASE
tools; configuration management
methods; and, preparation for on-going
maintenance of the software in
development.
(iii) Support: Provide post-
implementation support in facilities
management; systems operations and



165
Annex 14
Page 15 of 33
production control; trouble shooting;
and, software management and
maintenance.
(iv) User Training. Train MOLSP
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIVITIES
National, Judet and Local Office
personnel in the use of the delivered
software.
3.    ComDuter Installation: to          (i)   National Data Center: Provide
provide and install the computers       and install the computer equipment
and related equipment needed to         required to expand the capacity of the
support automation of MOLSP Social      MOLSP National Data Center to meet the
Insurance activities.                   needs of the Social Insurance Service.
This includes, as necessary,
augmentation of: operating system,
utility software, and other licensed
software; peripheral equipment
including printers, data storage
devices, power conditioning equipment,
etc. Provide warranty services and
routine, periodic and emergency
service for delivered equipment and
software.
(ii) Judet Data Centers: Provide and
install the computer equipment and
related equipment needed to support
the MOLSP Social Insurance service at
the Judet level (40 Judet/County
Offices and 7 Sectors in Bucharest).
This includes specified operating
system, utility software, and other
licensed software; peripheral
equipment including printers, data
storage devices, power conditioning
equipment, etc. Provide warranty
services and routine, periodic and
emergency service for delivered
equipment and software.



166
Annex 14
Page 16 of 33
Part II. EmDlovment & Trainina
A. EmDlovment Services
Goal: To develop Employment Services (ES) to provide income support to the
unemployed through the Unemployment Benefit (yE) system, rapidly redeploy
labor including administering proactive programs to reorient human capital,
and smooth the restructuring process through the initiation of mass layoff
techniques to support economic growth and increase standards of living.
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTIVITIES
1. National/Local Management                (i) Alternatives: Study alternatives
Structure: Refine the overall              for restructuring national, Judet,
management and administrative              and local branch offices with
structure for the Labor and                special reference to: (a) improving
Employment Services, the links             general cost-effectiveness of Labor
between the MOLSP, the Judet offices       and ES management including adapting
and the branch labor offices.              to increased automation, with
sufficient flexibility to maintain
computer services in the event that
an autonomous Employment Service is
created, (b) improving delivery of
UB in coordination with Social
Security and Social Assistance, (c)
improving labor exchange services,
and (d) improving administration of
proactive programs.
(ii) Introduce Refinements: Select
revised Labor and ES management
structures, develop revised
legislation and regulations as
necessary, and introduce management
by objectives, simplification,
decentralization and other
efficiency improving elements in the
management and administrative
process.
(iii) Staff development: Provide
initial and ongoing training to
national and local personnel
concerned, including new staff and
staff not previously trained.



167
Annex 14
Page 17 of 33
OBJCTiVBS                                       ACTIVITIES
2.  Labor Market Policy_ Refine            (i) Studies: Undertake special and
labor and employment service policy,       ongoing to enable the MOLSP to
including the design of income             refine labor market policy
support and proactive programs.            including, but not limited to:
(a) analyses of factors affecting
occupational and geographical
mobility;
(b) evaluation of the situation for
women during the transition period;
time;
(c) analysis of the impact of
economic restructuring on labor and
employment.
(ii) Labor Market PoliCV: Based on
studies and ongoing experience
develop an initial plan to refine
selected elements of labor market
policies for the period 1994 - 1997.
3.  Local Labor Offices: Refine and        (i)  Manaaement and organization:
improve employment service                 Develop workplans/procedures and
operations provided by Judet and           related staff training material to
branch labor offices.                      strengthen administrative and
management capability in labor
offices to improve efficiency and
incorporate a) expansion of the
labor exchange function and
proactive employment measures, b)
refinements in the operation of the
unemployment benefit program, and c)
increased automation.
ii. Labor Exchanae: Develop a plan,
procedures, and related training
materials to improve client intake,
registration and job referral
services.
iii. Self directed lob search:
Develop expanded job search/job
club/job coaching programs for labor
office clients and related training
materials for staff.
iv. Job DeveloDment: Develop
expanded employer services and



168
Annex 14
Page 18 of 33
related staff training materials
including (a) job development
procedures to identify more job
vacancies for the labor exchange,
and (b) systematic qualitative
methods of determining local short
term (e.g. 6 month) employment
trends.
v.   Staff Trainina: Provide at
least one month of staff training to
approximately 5000 local office
staff starting in areas where large
scale layoffs are anticipated, in
two or more of the above technical
areas 1 areas, (e.g. local office
management, UB benefit
administration, labor exchange
operations, self directed job search
techniques, and/or job development
techniques).



169
Annex 14
Page 19 of 33
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTIVITIES
4.  Industrial Adiustment Service:         (i) Awareness: Develop an awareness
Develop the capability to facilitate       of mass lay-off techniques utilized
labor market adjustment of large           in nearby and 2 - 3 OECD countries.
groups of workers being displaced          MOLSP will identify and set up a
due to economic restructuring.  This       steering committee and a core
capability is to focus on early            working team to coordinate a plan
intervention at the enterprise level       and guidelines, including
prior to layoff and will use a joint       establishment of legislative advance
employer-employee committee with           notice provisions linked to the
state support to develop an                delivery of rapid response measures.
adjustment plan.
(ii) Strateo2: Identify the agency
to deliver this service and develop
strategy and materials.
(iii) Orientation: Organize and hold
orientation sessions for social
partners, particularly in Judets
regions where mass lay-offs are
anticipated.
(iv) Train field staff: Identify and
train a small number up to 16 of
staff field delivery experts and
hold orientation sessions for local
field staff.
(v) Imolement: Field test 2 pilot
sites, in areas where mass layoffs
are anticipated,evaluate results,
revise plan and materials if
required and implement nationally.



170
Annex 14
Page 20 of 33
B. CounselincT
QGoal:      To develop high quality career information and counseling
materials and procedures to improve human resource allocation, labor force
mobility and productivity, and to improve the cost-effectiveness of
employment, education and training programs.
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
1.  Establish a CICWG: Establish a       (i) Conduct consultations between
Career Information and Counseling       Ministry of Labor, the Ministry of
Working Group (CICWG).                   Education and the Institute for
Educational Sciences to determine the
location, composition and terms of
reference for the CICWG, with roles
and responsibilities of all staff and
equipment and facilities
requirements.
2.  Establish a CICAG: Establish a       (i) Establish criteria for
Career Information and Counseling       participation, and terms of reference
Advisory Group (CICAG).                  for the functioning of the CICAG.
3.  Review Foreign Aooroaches: Review  (i) Arrange study tours for members
career information and counseling        of the CICWG and the CICAG to acquire
strategies and products in other         knowledge of relevant career
countries.                               information and counseling materials
and procedures which are applicable
to Romania.



171
Annex 14
Page 21 of 33
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIVITIES
4.  Develop a detailed nlan: for         (i) Develop, using both foreign and
career information and counseling for  local experts, a detailed plan for
Romania.                                 CICWG activities which identifies
specifically which products, concepts
and procedures will be developed or
adapted for use in Romania, how and
when.
(ii) Develop presentation materials
and present the plan to staff of
participating agencies and interest
groups throughout Romania.
(iii) Revise the plan in accordance
with feedback received.
5.  Develop Products: Develop career   (i) Develop printed materials,
information and counseling products    including a series of occupational
and materials.                           profiles, a series of career posters
and annual career information
newspapers.
(ii) Develop a computer-based career
information system and supporting
materials (user guide and
teacher/counselor handbook).
(iii) Develop a series of up to ten
video programs.
(iv) Develop interest and aptitude
test materials and procedures which
are integrated with all print,
computer and video materials.



172
Annex 14
Page 22 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
6.  Develoc and imDlement traininQ:    (i) Develop short-term (1/2 to 3 days
Develop training materials and          per product) training materials and
procedures and train trainers.          procedures to train counselors and
teachers to effectively use the new
products of the CICWG.
(ii) Train trainers in employment and
educational settings in all Judets.
(iii) Develop and implement a four-
month diploma program in counseling
at the university level to enable
counselors in employment and
educational settings to counsel more
effectively.
7.  Procure: Procure materials and       (i) Develop detailed implementation
equipment and implement career          plans for all products and procedures
information and counseling products    for local employment offices and
and procedures in local sites.           educational and training institutions
which include designation of pilot
sites to test, evaluate and refine
products and procedures.
(ii) Procure equipment and materials.
(iii) Reproduce and distribute career
information and counseling products
and procedures in accordance with
implementation plans.



173
Annex 14
Page 23 of 33
C. Adult Trainina
GOgAL The overall goal of this sub-component is to improve enterprise
productivity, promote inward investment and enhance international
competitiveness by improving the skills of the workforce.
OBJECTIVES                                ACTrVITIES
1. National Trainina Board (NTB)         (i) Alternatives: Review the
Restructure adult training including    tripartite governance structure,
developing a structure for               legislative base, financing, and
tripartite governance for                operation of adult training program
development of comprehesive              in several other countries.
community based services related to
regional and national needs.             (ii) Structure and Reaulations:
Develop regulations and procedures to
guide operations of National and
Regional Training Boards and Regional
Adult Training Centers (RATCs)
including establishing: (a) a
tripartite governance at the regional
and/or Judet level to govern RATCs;
(b) a financial structure to support
investment and recurrent costs of
training programs for different
clients (e.g. adults seeking initial
employment, seeking to change their
qualifications, and the unemployed);
(c) minimum services to be provided in
RATCs (job counseling and placement,
general education, occupational
training, entrepreneurship training,
custom enterprise training); (d)
methods of delivering services
training services (open entry to and
flexible entry exit modular
instruction in individual programs in
RATCs); (e) methods of financing
priority national programs and RATC
services (e.g. normative funding base
on the number of full-time equivalent
trainees).
(iii) Plan; Create a short-term (1
year) and longAC3!MITSE9ear) plan to
Support adult training encompassing:



174
Annex 14
Page 24 of 33
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTIVITIES
(a) development of a network of RATCs
based on conversion of selected
existing institutions; (b) provision
of support to selected existing
training institutions (e.g. sectoral
training institutions, enterprise
training centers, Group Scholars) on a
program by program basis.
(iv) National Activities/Staff
Development: Develop NTB:
(a) Develop national staff and
procedures for: administration,
finance, civil works, evaluation and
assessment, counseling/placement,
general education, occupational
training, entrepreneurship, foreign
languages, language education
(approximately 13 professional staff);
(b) Develop sub-contracting procedures
and priorities for development of
programs of special national
significance (e.g. vocational
curriculums with national priority,
follow-up studies of RATC program
graduates, etc.) identified by NTB.
(v) Criteria and Site Selection:
(a) NTB to establish competitive
procedures to request RATC proposals
from interested communities, in
keeping with parameters agreed with
the Bank, (e.g. availability of
facilities, commitment to NTB norms,
establishment of a tripartite Regional
Training Board) for establishing
RATCs; (b) Advertize competition,
evaluate, and select up to 3 sites.
(vi) Develoli Detailed Plans: NTB to
provide staff support to selected
RATCs to develop a detailed plan for
development and operation of the
RATCs including, but not limited to,
a: financial plan, facility plan,
staffing plan, and program plan
(vocational profiles to be taught).



175
Annex 14
Page 25 of 33
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTIVITIES
2. Regional Adult Training                (i) Administration: Develop
Institutions (RATC): Initiate             administrative procedures for
operations at 3 comprehensive             personnel, program operation, public
Regional Adult Training Centers, by       relations, financing.
restructuring selected existing
institutions which will be governed       (ii) Vocational Training: Define up to
on a tripartite basis, to deliver         20 vocational profiles for each RATC,
comprehensive services meeting NTB        develop modular training curriculum
norms.                                    material, define specifications for
related equipment and materials and
obtain/install equipment and
materials.
(iii) Facilities: Design and complete
facility conversion.
(iv) Counseling: Develop counseling
and placement programs at each RATC
including defining and purchasing
related materials and equipment.
(v) General Education: Develop up to
four general education programs (math,
physics, literature, lang.)
(vi) Customized Training: Develop the
capability for customized quick-start
enterprise specific.
(vii) Entrepreneurship: Develop
entrepreneurship training programs
(viii) Instructor Training: Develop
and provide approximately one month
pedagogical training to all RATC
instructors (approximately 90).
3. Strenathen Existing Adult              (i) Criteria and Site Selection: NTB
Training Proarams: Provide support        to refine the process and criteria, in
to selected existing training             keeping with Bank agreements  by which
institutions, which meet NTB norms,       it will select and support, on a
on a program by program basis.            program by program basis,
strengthening selected existing
training institutions:



176
Annex 14
Page 26 of 33
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTIVITIES
(ii) Occupational trainina: Provide
project support for development of up
to 47 occupational training programs
in existing training institutions
including developing modular training
materials, developing specifications
for related equipment and materials,
and installing equipment.
(iii) Foreign LancuaQes: Selectively
support development off up to 3
language programs in 12 sites apiece
(total 36 language training programs)
including defining training materials
and installing them in sites.



177
Annex 14
Page 27 of 33
Part III. Social Protection
A. Social Insurance Activity Matrix
Goal: To develop an efficient system of social insurance which is accessible,
accurate, prompt, cost effective and non-discriminatory
OBJECTIVE                                 ACTIVITIES
1. Policy framework and                  (i) Legislative stratea*: on the
implementation plan for reformed         basis of White Paper draft law on new
vublic system                            system and discuss with relevant
staff and officials; prepare final
draft for Parliament acceptable to
the Bank. Promulgate law.
(ii) Draft comnlementing regulatorv
decisions for the new system of
Social Insurance (SI)
2. Complementary private pension         (i) Options: review different kinds
system                                   of systems (funded, voluntary,
employer-based, contribution-based)
from OECD countries
(ii) Policy formulation: develop a
recommended system considering the
legal, financial, regulatory and
organizational needs required for
Romania
(iii) Legislative plan: develop
legislative principles needed for
setting up system; draft law and
regulations
(iv) Implementation plan: develop a
plan for implementation, implementing
it



178
Annex 14
Page 28 of 33
OBJECTIVES                               ACTIVITIES
3. Efficient client-oriented benefit   (i) Communications strateqv: develop
delivery system                          a plan for providing a comprehensive
information service to the public
about entitlement and appeals
throughout the reform process;
implement plan
(ii) Service delivery strateov:
develop a plan to ensure that the
correct amounts of benefits are paid
on time and efficiently, with proper
safeguards against fraud and abuse;
implement plan
(iii) Facilities plan: develop a plan
defining needs for facilities;
implement plan
4. Intearated contribution               (i) Contribution historv: develop a
collection and recording system which  plan to establish system for keeping
is compliance-oriented                   contribution and payment records of
contributions in an efficient,
reliable way; buy equipment, develop
software, implement plan
(ii) Compliance: develop a unit to
check compliance of contributions
from employers, employees and the
self employed; train and appoint
staff for unit
5. Accounting and financial              (i) Strategic financial management:
manaaement                               review financial management
functions, legal changes needed,
staff training neeed.
(ii) Financial MIS: review financial
and accounting MIS in light of
unified system, design and implement
new system, including staff training.
(iii) Cash Management: review short-
term cash management procedures,
legal changes needed and staff
training needed.



179
Annex 14
Page 29 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
6. Policy and evaluation caDabilitv:   (i) Procedure manuals: write, test
develop a Management Information        and print materials using the
System (MIS) and strengthen policy      automated forms, develop procedure
analysis and evaluation capability      materials to establish flow of
information and periodicity
(ii) Training materials: write, test
and print training materials for the
trainers
(iii) Training: train the trainers
in benefit administration, forms of
SI district office staff, central
MOLSP SI staff. Training in
management skills and customer
services for SI district office
heads. Data needs and evaluation for
central SI staff.
(iv) Monitoring and evaluation vlan:
develop a plan for monitoring,
evaluation and development of social
insurance policy; produce analysis
for policy review
(v) Link: MIS with evaluation and
policy capability
(vi) Accounting study: perform study
on best accounting system; propose
options, implement plan
7. Organizational development:          (i) Reform unit: appoint a management
produce a streamlined organization      reform unit at MOLSP to overview
that is efficient, professional and    organizational reform
able to carry out the administration
as defined in the policy reform plan   (ii) Business Dlan and oraanizational
with clear links with other agencies   design: develop strategic business
for organizational reform, implement
it
(iii) Human resources strategy:
determine if staff is adequate in
numbers and in training; plan for
training and staffing of new
organization



180
Annex 14
Page 30 of 33
B. Social Assistance
Goal: To improve the ability of the social safety net to soften the impact of
the reforms needed for the transition to a market economy.
OBJECTIVE                                 ACTIVITIES
1. Integrated cash benefit law &         (i) Consensus buildinQ: Draft law on
regulatory decisions.                    new cash benefit and discuss with
relevant staff and officials; prepare
final draft for Parliament acceptable
to the Bank
(ii) Draft com=lementing recnulatorv
decisions for the new cash benefit,
including cost, indexation
mechanisms, claims procedure, review
of cases, link with other services
2. Policy and evaluation capability:   (i) Training: arrange study tours to
strengthen, at the Directorate for       similar European Social Assistance
Social Assistance of MOLSP, the          offices for at least two staff
capability to address social
assistance policy and evaluation of    (ii) Policy unit: with trained staff,
programs                                 establish a policy and evaluation
unit for Social Assistance able to
perform policy and data analysis.
Define periodicity and type of
reports to be produced by unit
(iii) Strategic plan: based on
evaluations, develop a detailed plan
for social assistance needs in the
years to come



181
Annex 14
Page 31 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
3. Claim adiudication mechanisms:       (i) Present structure of claims
review the current system of            adludication: assess the present
adjudication for social assistance      system for benefit eligibility
and social insurance benefits so that  determination and appeal, using
system is clear, fair and efficient    visits and case sampling and
recommend the best system for Romania
for appeals bodies and procedures,
considering the legislative
tradition. Propose and
implement plan.
(ii) Materials : develop training
materials for social assistance and
manuals for delivery and appeal
bodies staff
(iii) TraininQ: training of staff
4. Review handicaoted and disability   (i) Benefits: assessment of the
benefit DroQrams: the current           present administrative and medical
inequitable programs of these two       certification system for determining
types of benefits leads to              the degree of disability benefits;
duplication of social insurance and    recommendations of what benefits are
social assistance payments              needed
(ii) Rehabilitation: assess the
provision of medical and vocational
rehabilitation for disabled and
handicapped, including success in
integrating them in the labor force;
recommendations for reform
(iii) Trainin: develop materials and
train social assistance and
handicapped benefit administrators



182
Annex 14
Page 32 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
5. ImDlementation of the integrated    (i) Automated forms: design forms and
cash benefit vrogram: according to      explanatory leaflets for integrated
an implementation plan                  delivery of benefits, then test them,
print them and send them to SA
district offices and Primarias
(ii) Procedure manuals: materials are
written, tested, printed and sent to
SA district offices and Primarias
(iii) Office eaui ment and space:
procure office space allocation,
desks and chairs, telephone, copier
and fax machine for additional and
existent SA staff
(iv) Additional staff: produce a
staffing plan and implement it
(iv) Training: design a training plan
for training trainers on the
following topics: benefit
administration, forms and Management
Information System for Primaria
workers, SA district office staff,
central MOLSP SA staff. Training in
management skills and customer
services for SA district office
heads. Link with training unit.
6. Integration of social                (i) Payment efficiencies: assess the
insurance/social assistance vavments:  possible efficiency gains from
develop a system for integrating        increased integration of payments for
SI/SA cash benefits                     cash benefits for both SI and SA;
implement reforms
(ii) Training: develop materials for
training, train SI/SA district office
staff on changes



183
Annex 14
Page 33 of 33
OBJECTIVES                              ACTIVITIES
7. Management Information System         (i) System developed: design the MIS
system needs to be developed to         according to organizational reform
enable policy makers and managers to   and benefit disbursement
assess the performance of the staff
and the efficiency of the               (ii) Procedure materials: using the
administration                          automated forms, develop procedure
materials to establish flow of
information and periodicity
(iii) Training: conduct training of
central SA staff and district office
staff in charge of reporting
(iv) Link: MIS with evaluation and
policy capability
8. Improve community outreach and        (i) Outreach awareness: through
develop a publicitv of new benefit:    training sessions for Primaria and SA
district office staff involved in
benefit administration
(ii) Publicity camoaian: design of
messages, choice of media for
campaign, test of messages, contract
with media company for producing 2
videos, 3 leaflets, 2 TV spots (if
can be aired free) and 2 radio spots.
Evaluation of campaign.
9. Staffing and TraininQ Unit:           i) Staffing needs: develop a system
for permanently evaluating if staff
is adequate in numbers and in
training
(ii) TraininQ needs: establish a
system for in-service training of SA
staff
(iii) Stud tour: of the staff of
this unit to learn how it operates in
other countries of Western/Eastern
Europe
10. Fraud prevention/control: when       (i) Revie   of cases to detect
the new integrated program is in        possibility of fraud, causes
place, case samples will reveal
fraudulent cases                         (ii) Fraud control system:  et up a
system for controlling/ deterring
fraud



1
184



Yew I   yew I          Y0sr3            Yew4            yew I           yewa
ID    ___                                       l 0                 110210 a02 '  04 01  02  4  01  0   0   04 01 02 0   0  01 02   2 104 0i 102 10  04 01
4      Raw9  pw..dwm.. _w .vu4Un Iot
5      RiM ho tobOd pesoodwso
6      RasIts and dsoo.udns m*Weals
IDolp &A porM MI
39     ROWSw edging p,gmm
1      RAM. PMo.dW,s SW owdining hqiat
I  10   F.M _omn         s
J 11   Fbiunnd  & I ml iu    dda
l ~~12  EvhaoESUiig ofoow'.e                                                                                  w
13     Evdkei &wMVY                                                                           w                                                      0
14         le6do tophAiwethm.
21 
l-lw    Aau                                                                           '_A*
13  Evaluate LA .Us_  'm                                                                                                                        .
21  -       swdimdssu                                                           -- P" ;j
22                     b11i kenlw                  ._                                                                
28-  'aya                                                                                                                                o  vlu
-   ______________   .                                                                . _.                                             _.    _    -
___ ,__ _____  ____                                          ____ 



l ~ ~ ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ yw                                 -   -wi    WAX___ _,__
~Nune                                         01 02  I  00 V 2                     Yea3            Yew 4           Yew I           Ye 
ID_                 ______11_2_C_3___4_________                   0*03  04 01_0202304 0110210204  01002204 A0 02 03 04 01
24 Meeke Uwkg sWaded *or.&
U   Nmi.r rmiuss of II (TAC3
-is     ce.wu 26d 545
_uew .s. afl hi._* _ytu
lS    b -   id s     bta  _el r
33      9dAM Nis         M D                                           -sr  -I
34   _teemi   a I we_s to  e e
sr       IsIh     e
I                                                                                                                                                    OD _-t e 
37  h.P.., week 04me0S safe
3l      Estabfeay reqdema data bas= 
40      Detemis dwms 1w s_asm
4 1
42  Aowwo-   , _be                     _                     l
44         E     d0t            _       -                       _ 0 Id A
p a 2



Yew I           Yew 2           Yaw 3           Y4 |4             e a           Ya wS
ID  NHome                                        T_ 1ai  14  01 I 21  04a       l  a2 1a2   4            [4 a1 1*0   0  0 1 0I2 0   04 01
47      Dot.mnW  wlolaManaumbla nads                          m
48     #WchintaR $*Apwnt
so      Pumhse- nd.dng srumm  equipment
S1  hwe   tmcmw s-i idah_ty
I        _                                                               .~G
sa LL AMzrnM AM  mAYn.
_   OunE.pATA CfIr
54  Mnagmml TA -A
us      SpreloUNaSna
67  eftw._
53      Dodo], dehp, tn Ut _1 _ylaeM
so      T*ohoded Ir.Jnq                                                                     kw                            . 
.1  .    etddVl a
00      Malntenan  a op_rtln euppont
lu  Tr d,i_
UZ  kintaNMaInaI Hwdwmo
03     CWnWi pue.eeang balky
64      Ned Wis. Mal A ea  _e__
65  Empsvmsn Seia N . Caeuieaiai A Sdihul
OJ-bibc C     i sAta _ PU                                         _      ____ ____                        _
as      Appta dog
,5 .urchase equipmXnt
61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg W
_    UNW    -                           .    _ w
.. ~~~~~.                   r                                                                                                   _ ~~~~



you I                     Year 2 =      3            Ya4                                             _ YOUS
ID   Nam__T0                                                               2103 104  a01 0202401102  0ll4 I                 t 0l CM     04  Cll 02 0   04 O1
70       tWo TA
7 1      T ~id" -ta 
73  Refni ne@ f    .e     .  amet OUtwo
74       Assess rt uolng allmadvee
76       ltrouo tsf_wnenimt.
76      Train o.dond A lood level etff
71  *ts" Dleve p_men
I78     Undasd, Sam"
7I       WMl  plan D        " rde . labor meAet
SO  Ref _h op      teserA.tmuo t birh bor br                                                       _. 
31       Develop wwrk plnel,rfedwr  staff t__h_
materie                                                                                                                                                    0
02       Doevlop p_en    t. to ImkAovo ce.t Inazke- A                                     _       _             _                    _                         i ..
I              ~~~~~~reel..
U3       Develop expmned job soewo prorane di
related tadff trslWno mg"eh
84       Develop empandd erloyer .en'loe
36     Tran esaff Moo 0oad staml)
36Developbko Inuate4unitsumegs boe
37       DeVelp  wome  o laof taohlwdqe A
MOth wod*wn mmou
I U Ideedy egwt der eeiOn'e. devlp
_     tr teamz  tlb 
Iase     og*de          @ orlental    dseua fat            _    _W pe_mare
I30     TraIn  eIta N                                                                                                                                             C.
91        eld teWt 2p PM    e     ,           t                            ,                             __ ___  __                                               s-I
0  J
U   _     i n I E B & M I E I M .Ii S                 .__  _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __o-
I               _           l                                                                      _   o~Pes 



-
t   __  Year 1   Yew 2            Y   tS           Year 4            ' wE4           Yew e_
lb      e                                        01  02 03 1040   02  0   041 10                 04      02 02 1001          2010402          203001 1
93  Reavew approdwa abroad                                                          __W_H         _ _ 
34      Arran. od* toure or CKWWO and CICAO         _                            WA
SD* evelop      for woen I hbk euma  _I h                   _
7s       1eve)op plan lfo CICWO saMves In Rwnoeds
37      Develop prdaotn maedals & preent plan                _
-a       levi.s plan beaud en feedback rael_ved
to Develop new                %I *U    pt.duotu &                                   _ n 
100      Develop pinted maedal__
101      Develop oonp iesaad w_ear Info sytem &                                        _       _l
eupperinimatedala
102      Develop sers of vIdeo prooparne
103      Develop Intert & aptiude test mat*edd &A
104  Implement itabi
iOS      Develop tiAanomatedd                                             _    _ 
106      Tinln taeiist Id Judta)__
10i  Equlp le.ad dukes_ _                                                                             _                                                    ;
lOP      Develop knplmentsen plan for products I
109     Procure ewqpmetrn te & iedde
110      Rsproducp l dlrrsto o"r Into &
111  ReemA.tsbkeH  manaMt_t RANhwo
Iii       ReM& w     gevern aw .  etae.b   In   odw   ersunrmb ee
-11-4    Develop reg_dw _f          fao  edl wRs*w                                                                                                            x
ilO      Devebp   W-_  and long-m planeto
. _' - *                                             .  .                                        .              _ ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rag"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 15
190              Page 6 of 10
I-r:~  jjI11jjf1jJ la4 $1
-aC  IT~~~~~~~~~~~
s                  c~~~~l '



__________________YewI_Y w_2_ew____r___ew                                                                                    Ye  0a  04  0
-Notn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~a  a1 2Q    s 1  aiA 01                   1  ci 1 401 W0310  14 -01 102 1 03 10411 102 a1 0            |IOi 102 1 03 I0   01
.:       nren.do.  ar.                                   Vet             '
140 luppwt   as*ked.  nwle         _n                                                        _
Ng"ht"wbe. amP>th      , tet    f
142      Def  *elotodon poseee_
143      IdIenfd need. & develop proge. In seleted |
.nt.we - 
144  SWupf 1 d dibng & new bih hU.wt 
145      lath. meted lbaiaflsl   eteJ
t4@ ttow p      * tpf-dhm now *   odnr
_  lmdvidorwe It !wssJ bldine
147      Suppo seeted 'udWdow In deveop 
$ergm    cepel for Addressg IA poky NW
151      Arrage study tlourlsr at loat 2 stulf
162      E ttablh pdoy end evdhuadon uw_
1S3      Devef op *dtud pim for SA In ht
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
Reie  garnetn I4ee    eyta
15   R VieW ban&ahpg  dlsab&tvd b.a1psewel
153      Asses. piwst system & caP                                                    ,S                                                    - - _
&m d2  Ww. ,._  __ed
160      D.vip kdudn metade   rvnbenei                                                                                                                         -a _ -
I                                     'L__~~~~~i        I**       * _                                                                              I  I.- 
*                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soc 7



Veag 1            .aVisr 2   .    Y.w 3           Var 4            Yow              Year         _
to  No"                                      -      1 2      If 104 _ 1        0213 4  a   02 |  4 01 102 0   0 I  I4  Qsi 0 2 1 0s 04 01  0I   31  04 01
162      DeawnI fern,. and W.as.te daaa.vniab to
18) I       ata i   p po**a&s mmmd.: d..en*,te _i
164    _ObtainA   ,.UI .1    .
I        Deelp & _.dsI a s  tafla1  en_
M6       DeuI1iaWdna* p1faXlr t,ddng trainr;l tran
iS   Develop *let  for hltsua*a   hA saa_ banfi
is#      As..s. effidewy gia  A kiyhmant Wowem
l63      Develop trodudn nwtsu1uo train SIISA dlstikt
Ies staff prfsa.s and adm* at  edo
171     Deelop ml$_
172  D,_   ehpw          for We fw _w
173     Train lntrd& letu   A  tl hI swiu  o                              -
174       k* MIS WMi vddUnA a pocy caeabllty 
170M v smnmewy osuwtred _dI
170   Dowdop awatan tvouh ttWni  O P_".u
nd do"  Is"
137     OssIw awd bnphmm  p*ot  camaign                                                                                              I
i   178  Evaluate a_ a_w
9Davala stafb* ard trahWg nith
I    tN   D        lap         staf         syst em
I  130   D-__mpament mf vdon                                                                                                                           .
_31      Davah avtin fie detwmn. ba-#le t,dd I_
122      Cin vaut   yt        sh  e:ed_j
0 Dn
i1~   ~12 10        ROi'O Om" ts dsDd Xms.O9
3I 194  Iwi"bi^."-   _                                                                                             .                                       O -
.    _                                                -__            . '                             _p gsi 



NIm_                                                  Yot I             Yew 2             Yu :3              Yew 4             Ya                Yew  *
ID Nano                         _                         110 t2 rGi 3  |l q4102 | Q3 |104  Q11|  Q2U| 3 |104  GIral s  g    al 10210   |    GQScli     |04  0|    1
lag      Estab4sh swiem for oonlrol3ng & detarlno                       01   1                               _ 4      _ 0                                 _ _ 0
inl ML EAL H&NCI
ldd bitbbbh pWe framework A bnplmanntawn plan
1le      Draft low an new Pl sytem: dlseuee: rveAi_
190    * Draft omolanwndng regatoery deolalon,
191  Dewve op eumrnte.y private pensor. ayeotem
12      RSevw eupedena* In *ither ount,lee ttuwu
193      Develop systm   bwad on rRN esn ne' eda 
194      Devel   gaadve pdndpiIs (ofr systa  draft
law breasisdons
lag         Opeve     nd nmplent plan
1S6  Develop eleont-.l*nted beneft dolvery .yst__
137      Dselop ple to hIpto    denlant ervie a IW
is      tbeveep plen tsr povidn omnWyreenlwe ht
esrvloes to sbe  S tiwlmewnt
15  Dfine lacuh  niad.; brplemnt pa
200  D$V  llolrsoGM"  a ;bp_spE __e
200    DoevoP lest u         n & renorwin systemp
. !"-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  .g:
202     E h   dt___ _ _ __ _ _ _  *tJ ehOl _                            _        __
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "_
203~~ -lay  ldp             wtkindzom _
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0 L
2-07   ~DWW MSf 1 tWll pMoons_ k                b be   | -                   --                          _                                         ..o
I    n llotS                                                                                                                                                          O
po 



Yew I            Y.uI2             Vow 3            Vow 4             Yew IlOO
J0   Nwm                                            0I 0I 0L3  04  011102  02  04  0j]2jaJEs4  C1jJaJjj7                OW4 06I21031 0 Q01  0   0   04- 01
R0B      Dmlop pmeeoduras manud
203      Deafp &  rn.ndnets tref&hg muwIdeg
2.0 Teak,Wm  fbdanefiat adndL,n. w meam  W&U..
211      UModte an evaitua te1 p.5ev dmdopment
analyz fi or y roilew
212      Ur* MM wI*vWuadon b puSeV coeapktV
VI 3    lay foas.eumdmg   PytM "$proos pdss.
214  Dewkop ekewmr4d ergmnhaden wwrkhi whth          __________                          ____              ___
___  treme  of eq wed edev frumewmk
213      Appet snmnegemew refosn uhdt at MOLSP    I01
216      D.vdgp uuats* buakss O,mn for
ememafh!ftd tfm huhmnt
2   M Pmdi .                      svsbdn  tremr    taue"i
med.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
213  RoundS & twin staff em roqukPopod



195                      Page 1 ofl
ROMANIA
EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
SUDervision Plan
Number of staffweeks
TIMING          STAFFING                               of which
Field      HQ    Total
FY95     Task Manager                                    6         6       12
Resident Mission Project Officer               10         0       10
Implementation Specialist                       3         3        6
Employment/Training Specialist                  3         1        4
Social Assistance Specialist                    2        2         4
Social Insurance Specialist                     2         2        4
Automation Specialist                           2         2        4
Subtotal                                       28       16        44
FY96     Task Manager                                     8        6       14
Resident Mission Project Officer               10         0       10
Implementation Specialist                       6        3         9
Employment/Training Specialist                  6         3        9
Social Assistance Specialist                    6         2        8
Social Insurance Specialist                     6         2        8
Automation Specialist                           6         4       10
Subtotal                                       48        20       68
FY97     Task Manager                                     6        6        12
Resident Mission Project Officer                8         0        8
Implementation Specialist                       3         3        6
Employment/Training Specialist                  4         3        7
Social Assistance Specialist                    4         2        6
Social Insurance Specialist                     4         2        6
Automation Specialist                            4        4         a
Subtotal                                       33        20       53
FY98     Task Manager                                     4        3         7
Resident Mission Project Officer                 8        0         8
Implementation Specialist                        3        3         6
Employment/Training Specialist                   4        3         7
Social Assistance Specialist                     4        2         6
Social Insurance Specialist                      4        2         6
Automation Specialist                            4        4         8
Subtotal                                        31       17        48
FY99     Task Manager                                     3         3        6
Resident Mission Project Officer                 8        0         8
Implementation Specialist                        3        3         6
Employment/Training Specialist                   3        3         6
Social Assistance Specialist                     2        2         4
Social Insurance Specialist                      2        2         4
Automation Specialist                            2         2        4
Subtotal                                        23        15       38



196



197
ROMANIA                                           ANNEX  17
EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                            Page 1 of 3
Be  Pfcrogllm krAemtdn  &chmd4b 
(US$ nIeqo. kinluing confg*ingsal
EsIMATED TIMING OF ACTIITIES AND RELATED
FINANCING
PR' ICT YElAR     w1x
PRE-PRO-                                                                 PROCURE-
PROJECT ELEMENT              JECT      1       2       3      4               6 t    TOTAL        MENT METHOD
LOAN TIMNG
Signing/Effeclvenv sClosing b/           XX X                                        X X
WRKS
Labor offices I Facilites rehab (RATCs)                                                                 NBF: US$1Im
Prepare documernts                              XX XXXX   XX
Award contracts                                   X X   X  XXXX  XX
Carry out works                                  X X   X  XXXX  XXXX         XXXX
Works Enendng Sprad                      0.30    0 00   4.21  3.50    3.00    0.00        11.00 
GOODS fabout 12 ICS meckesal
.ouioment/Matstlols:  cl                                                                               ICE: US$21 .0m
(8 packagess
Prepare equipment lists,                                                                               Intl Shopping:
specifications & bid or                                                                                US$ 1 Om; Local
shopping documents                      XX  XXXX  XXXX   XXXX  XX                                      Shopping: US$1.3m.
Obtain price quotations and                                                4
purchase/Bidding, evaksation
and contract award                           XXXX  XXXX   XXXX  XXXX   XXXX
Deliver goods/lnstall                           XX XXXX   XXXX  XXXX   XXXX   XX
E~    wnt Finacing Sed           _           ____ _ 0.80    3.60  10.20    2.40    4.50    1.80  23.30
Veh des:
01 package)
Prepare specifications & bid or
shopping documents                            XX                                                       ICE US$0.7m
Obtain price quotations and
purchase OR Bidding, evaluation.
and contract award                             XX  XXXX
Dclivcr goods                                    X      X    XX    XX
Veicles i       Spd                       0.10    0.10   0.60   0.00                        0.70
13 packages)
Prepare specifications & bid or
shopping documents                       XX X       XX      XX      XX     XX                         ICE: US 10.6m
Obtain price quotations and
purchase OR Bidding, eviuation                                                                        Intl. Shopping:
and contract award                             XXX    XX       XX                                     US*0.7m
Deliverflnstell                                   X XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX
Coputanrs Finaneing Sp.ed                  2.70    5.001  0.20   0.20    0270    1.40         1.30



198
ROMANIA                                              ANNEX  17
EAPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                                Page 2 of 3
ESTI" TED TIMING OF ACTIVITI  AND RELATED
PROJECT YEAR Iquartnrht
PR-PRO                                            I                          PROCURE-
PROJECT  RAENT                JECT       1        2                       3  4  S  t      TOTAL        MENT METHOD
|OWSULTANT SVICES d/
ORI:
Prepare TORseShort Net                     XX XX                                                            Shon Ust/
Invite and evaluate proposalIs/                                                                              Bank's Consultant
Negotiate and Award contract                      XX                                                         Guidelines Procedures
Deliver aervicees                                      XXXX   XXXX
TOR2:
Prepre TORs/Short lst                      XX XX                                                             Short List/
Invit and valuate proposdet                                                                                  Bank's Consultant
Negotiate and Award contract                      XX                                                         Guidelines Procedures
Deliver services                                    X XXXX   XXXXe  XXXX
Prepare TORe/Short list                  XXX                                                                 Short List
Invite and evaluate propoeals/                                                                               Bank's Consultant
Negotiate end Award contract               XX                                                                Guidelines Procedures
Deliver services - - -                                         XXXX XXXX   XX__ XXXX    X_ XXX  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
0R4:
Prepare TORs/Short list                    XX                                                                Short List
Invite end evaluate proposals/                                                                               Bank's Consultant
Negotiate and Award contract                   XXX                                                           Guidelines Procedures
Deliver services                                    X XXXX   XXXX   XXXX
TOR: */                                                                                                       N.B.F.
Prepare TORs                               XX
Deliver services - - - -                          XX  XXXX   XXXX   XX - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -         ||
ORS: ft                                                                                                      N. B. F.
Prepare TORs                               XX
Deliver services - - - - - -                      XX  XXXX   XXXX  XX - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
R7: 9/                                                                                                       N.B.F.
Prepare TORs                               XX
Deliver services                                  XX  XXXX   XXXX  XX --
TORS:
Prepare TORs/Short list                    XX                                                                Short LisVt
Invite and evaluate proposeal/                                                                               Bank's Consultant
Negotiate and Award contract                       XX                                                        Guidelines Procidures
Deliver services - - - - - -                           XXXX   XXXX   XXXX - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
OR1O: h/
Prepare TORs/Shon list                     XX                                                                Short LiUs
Invite and eveluent proposist                                                                                Bank's Consultant
Negotiate end Award conutct                    XXX                                                           Guidelines Procedures
Deliver services                                    X      XXXX   XXXX  I      I        I       I



199
ROMANIA                                             ANNEX  17
EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT                               Page 3 of 3
ESTIMATED TIMING OF ACTIVMES AND RELATED
FINANCING 
PROJECT YEAR fqusrtrly)
PRE-PRO-                 I |             I                                 PROCURE-
PROJECT ELEMENT               JECT       1      2   1  3        4   |            6       TOTAL       MENT METHOO
TOR11:
Prepare TORs/Short lists                 XX                                                               Short List/
Bank's Consultant
Invite and evaluate proposals/                 XX                                                          Guidelines Procedures
Negotiate and Award contract                      XX  XXXX   XXXX  XX
Deliver services
Consultent Services
Financing Spread                       2.40    4.80    5.50    2.20    0.40    0.20        15.40
TANING
Prepare TORs/Select cendidotes;
Invite proposals and contrsct with                                                                        Short List of training
selected Institutions                    XXX  X.                                                          providers (see iWl
Deliver trainmng                                 XXX XXXX   XXXX   XXXX   XXXX
Training Financing Spread                  0.90    1.40    1 70    0.90    0.70    1 .00       6.70
Intl Shopping:
USS4.9m; Local
Incremental Operating Cots                                                                                 Shopping: USS2.7m;
nng SDread                             0.70    2.50    5.20    6.301   5.80    6.30        26.80 NBF: USS19,3m
TOTAL                              8.80   18.40  27.70   14.50   15.00   10.80        95.20
of which Bank-financed                    8.00   15.80   S6.60    6.40    5.50    3.10       55.40
NOTES:
ea Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
b/ Assumes project effectiveness by third quarter FY95; and closing Sept 2001.
c/ To the extent practical, equipment and materials would be grouped into packages of sizes that would interest large
numntbers of international vendors. It is expected that local suppliers will participate in all ICB goods procurement.
d/ TORs for major packages have been prepared and csn be found in the POM. Detailed activities under each package
and estimated monthy manpower requirements for local and external TA are presented in Annex 10.
e/ Bilateral financing (US Dept. of Labor).
f/ Bilateral financing iCaneda).
g/ Bilateral financing (Gerrnany).
hi TOR U9, Management Training, can be found in the POM. It is not included hers as those activities are
not pert of the project.
il To the extent possible, training activities will be integrated into consultant services contracts and programming
defined and agreed in that context. TORs for major packages have been prepared end can be found in the POM.
Detailed activities and estimated training requirements, in months, for local and external training, are presented
in Annex 11.
m\sabrina\romaniacemplymt\procimpr.xls
SHutfman



200



IBRD 25020R
ROMAN IA
.C-                                                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     -w
m ~ ~ ~ ~~~~RH                                                         i        ~         VS   
V,                  ARAMURE~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          0'
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



