                             Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                       Report No: 28935-RO

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (CPL-38490)

                                ON A

                                LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55.4 MILLION

                                 TO

                              ROMANIA

                               FOR AN

            EMPLOYMENT & SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT (ESPP)




                             June 4, 2004




HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION

   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective May 11, 2004)

     Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
             1 Leu = US$ 0.0000292
            US$ 1 = 34,182

           FISCAL YEAR
          July 1   June 30

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL           Agricultural Services Adjustment Loan
CIC            Career Information and Counseling
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
ESPP           Employment and Social Protection Project
FESAL          Financial Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loan
LRP            Labor Redeployment Program
MIG            Minimum Income Guarantee
MIS            Management Information System
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOLSP          Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MOY            Ministry of Youth
NAE            National Agency for Employment
NATB           National Adult Training Board
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
NHP            National House of Pensions
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
RATC           Regional Adult Training Center
SPAL           Social Protection Adjustment Loan
SSD            Social Sector Development (Project)

    Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
  Country Director     Anand K. Seth
   Sector Director     Charles C. Griffin
 Task Team Leader      Richard Florescu

                                           ROMANIA
              EMPLOYMENT & SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT (ESPP)


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
 1. Project Data                                                                    1
 2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
 3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
 4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
 6. Sustainability                                                                16
 7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
 8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
 9. Partner Comments                                                             *19
 10. Additional Information                                                       31
 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             32
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
 Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
 Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
 Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
* Borrower's Contribution is included in section 9

Project ID: P008776                                                  Project Name: EMPLYMT & SOC PROTECTION
                                                                     (ESSP)
Team Leader: Richard Florescu                                        TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 4, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: EMPLYMT & SOC PROTECTION (ESSP)                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-38490
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (43%); Vocational training
                            (32%); Other social services (14%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (7%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance
                            and contractual savings (4%)
                  Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Social risk mitigation (P); Vulnerability
                            assessment and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/16/1992                                     Effective: 12/05/1995                12/05/1995
     Appraisal: 10/31/1994                                         MTR: 11/15/1997                  11/15/1997
      Approval: 03/07/1995                                      Closing: 09/30/2001                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Labor/MOLSP(MIN. OF LABOR)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Michael H. Wiehen
Sector Director:                Charles C. Griffin                             Ralph W. Harbison - Div. Chief
Team Leader at ICR:             Richard Florescu                               Maurice Boissiere
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Florescu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
1. Strengthen the capacity of labor offices to administer increasing numbers of claims for unemployment
benefits and active labor adjustment services (e.g., job placement, employment counseling, training). 2.
Develop a flexible adult training system which responds to evolving labor market demand resulting from
economic restructuring and 3. Implement reforms in social insurance and assistance programs, targeting
those population groups which are most vulnerable to falling into poverty during and after the transition to
a market economy.

Background. The social protection system in place at the time of the ESPP preparation, was a legacy of
the previous socialist era, designed for a full employment economy. The very limited reform attempts,
aiming only to address the day to day emerging hardships caused by the early transition process towards
market economy could not cope with all the mid and long-term social consequences of structural
adjustment.

The labor market interventions were mainly focused on the registration of the increasing number of
unemployed (almost 12% in 1995) and the payment of unemployment benefits introduced beginning
December 1990. A very limited number of active labor programs, used to be previously delivered by a
network of 17 old type training centers, belong to the MOLSP. All these centers, obsolete in terms of
physical facilities and equipment, were providing training using outdated curriculum and in a supply driven
manner. Almost no private training providers existed on the market. Programs such as small business
assistance or temporary community employment and job counseling and placement services were weak in
public employment offices and nonexistent in the private sector.

The pensions system (classical PAYGO) provided both contributory (old age, disability and survivor
pensions) and non-contributory benefits (sick leave and maternity leave) financed out of the pension funds
(state social insurance budget).

The social assistance programs, financed out of the state budget, were inherited from the communist era.
They were mainly designed to support: (i) the pro-natalist policies (e.g. child allowance programs and birth
indemnities) and (ii) the protection of special disadvantaged groups (e.g. abandoned children, handicapped
and elderly). No comprehensive means-tested cash benefit programs targeted on poor households were
available at that time.

Comprehensive design approach. As many of the first generation social sector projects in the Region, the
design and objectives of the ESPP were comprehensive. The fairly complex design had to match the social
protection complexity and its huge needs as identified at the beginning of transition, even with the risk of
difficult implementation. Given the project complexity and the novelty of many of the reform concepts and
principles, the project preparation cycle was lengthy (more than three years) and costly, as well as the
implementation itself, but, in the end the efforts paid off since the development objectives were fully met.

The ESPP objectives reflected both the priorities identified by the Government of Romania and the Bank.
Specifically the two White Papers on Pensions (1994) and Social Assistance (1993) reforms, prepared by
the Government with the support of external technical assistance under the Technical Assistance and
Critical Imports Loan (TACI) and of the PHRD Grant for the project preparation, laid out the deficiencies
of these sectors and proposed ambitious reforms needed to be implemented in order to overcome these
deficiencies on the medium term. Also the Bank' s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Romania
finalized in 1993 identified social protection as one of the major areas of support, in helping the



                                                      - 2 -

Government cope with the side effects generated by the economic reforms, and fight adequately the likely
increasing poverty. The Bank's Report on Romania ,"Human Resources and the Transition to a Market
Economy" (1992) made a wide set of policy reform recommendations, which the team that prepared to
project took into account as well.

The project implementation was quite lengthy (eight years) exceeding by two years the initial closing date.
The high turnover of staff at both senior management and technical levels, numerous Government agencies
involved in the project and the fast changing legal environment had a great impact on the timing of
implementation.

A large amount of upfront technical assistance (22.4% of the disbursed loan funds, excluding the bilateral
TA grants) was included in the project to foster institutional development of the MOLSP and its relevant
agencies in developing the needed legislation and support the early steps of its implementation. Under these
circumstances, procurement of goods and services (e.g. office and IT equipment, software development,
training equipment) could only be launched after the completion of technical assistance activities. As a
result, the disbursement performance was weak in the first year of project life.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although restructured once, the initial project objectives remained valid over the entire project life.

3.3 Original Components:
The Employment and Social Protection Project was a fairly complex project structured in the three main
components with a total baseline costs of US$81.6 million:

I.       General Management and Policy (US$26.5 million)
II.      Employment and Training (US$46.1 million)
III.     Social Protection (US$9.1 million)

Each of the components comprised several sub-components, some of them containing distinct activities.

Component I's overall objective of improvement in the management, planning, execution,
cost-effectiveness, and evaluation of the MOLSP programs has been structured in three sub-components:
A.       Monitoring and Policy Analysis (US$3.9 million)
B.       Automation of the Labor and Social Protection Offices (US$21.2 million)
C.       Project management (US$1.4 million)

Component II's overall objective in strengthening the MOLSP capacity is to administer unemployment
benefits and pro-active labor market programs, and develop a flexible and responsive adult training system,
which was initially structured in three sub-components:
D.       Employment Services (US$18.8 million)
E.       Career Information and Counseling (US$6.2 million)
F.       Adult Training (US$21.1 million)

Component III's overall objective in the development and implementation of reforms aim to restore the
financial viability of the social insurance system and target the social assistance to those most in need,
which was structured in two sub-components:
G        Social Insurance Reforms (US$3.8 million)
H        Social Assistance Reforms (US$5.3 million)




                                                     - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:
Labor Redeployment Program (US$10.5 million). In 1997, the project was restructured in order to support
the implementation of a wide range of active labor market measures (training and retraining, small business
start up advisory services, business incubators, local economic development planning, employment
services) for the large number of workers displaced as a result of industrial and agricultural structural
reforms initiated under the structural adjustment programs FESAL and ASAL. For the purpose of this
ICR, the LRP sub-component is numbered as D1.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of project preparation, no formal Quality at Entry criteria were available. However, this report
uses the current Bank standards for its evaluation. Under these circumstances, the Quality at Entry would
be rated as Satisfactory based on: (i) the consistency of the project objectives with the priorities identified
by the Government in the two White Papers on the reform of the Social Insurance System (1994) and
Social Assistance System (1993), the Bank's sector review (Human Resources and the Transition to a
market Economy, 1992) and the 1994 CAS; (ii) adequacy of the project design given the needs of the social
protection sector; and (iii) realism of the needs assumptions, implementation arrangements, system
priorities which were in line with the situation in the country and the envisaged benefits as described in the
SAR, as well as taking into account the potential risks and appropriate measures to mitigate them.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project has satisfactorily achieved its major objectives set forth in the areas of social protection, labor
market, pensions and social safety net. In the labor market area, the main output is the establishment of a
fully functional National Agency for Employment (NAE), with a country wide network of local offices
(292 sites) that provides a wide range of benefits and demand driven - performance based active services,
administered by the local labor offices to all labor market clients, irrespective of their occupational status.
Currently the NAE is operating with ratio of staff /client of 1/177, as compared with the ratio of 1/668 in
1993. The NAE became financially sustainable, running surplus in the budget over the last three years.
The services and programs implemented country wide in 1993 by the NAE helped 557,735 job seekers to
find employment, out of which 491,872 got permanent employment. The overall (registered) unemployment
rate decreased from 11.3% in 1997 to 7.6% in 2003. The public pensions system was reformed in April
2001, and the performance of the pensions budget is constantly improving both in the revenue and
expenditure sides, inspite of the difficult conditions created by the unfavorable demographics and the
deterioration of the dependency rate (0.73 contributors for a pensioner in 2003). Although the public
pensions fund is still facing a deficit of 0.34% of the GDP in 2003, the medium and long-term projections,
taking into account the recent parametric reforms, deficit will decrease with a possibility of balancing it in
the next four years. However, the pensions reforms initiated under the ESPP, contributed significantly to
the decrease of the risk for elderly to fall into poverty from 0.35% in 2000 to 0.29% in 2002. In the short
time since the National House of Pensions was established (2001), the institution became a mature agency
capable to deliver pensions and short term benefits to more than 6.1 million beneficiaries country wide, in a
timely manner. The social assistance system introduced in 2002 the Minimum Income Guarantee Program
(a conditioned proxi-means tested benefit) provided to the poorest households with a fairly good targeting
performance, which contributed significantly to the poverty reduction. In 2002, the MIG program covered
619,000 families (1,098,453 persons), representing almost 5% of the total population. The last Poverty
Assessment for Romania (June 2003) showed that the MIG was the best targeted program in the Region,
62% of the resources going to the poorest 20% of the population, but the coverage is still weak. The
Poverty Assessment conducted by the Bank in 2003, as well as the update of the poverty profile jointly
prepared by the Bank and the Government (early 2004), revealed continuous decrease in the: (i) overall



                                                       - 4 -

poverty from 35.9 % in 2000 to 25.1% in 2003, and (ii) severe poverty from 13.8% in 2000 to 8.6%
in 2003.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: General Management and Policy (US$26.5 million).
The overall achievement of objectives under Component I is rated satisfactory, though the Monitoring and
Policy Analysis did not fully meet its initial objectives.

A.       Monitoring and Policy Analysis (US$3.9 million). The objective of this component was to
support the development of a Management Information System (MIS) in tracking and evaluating ongoing
programs and help refine new policies introduced under the Project. In order to achieve this objective, the
MOLSP was supposed to develop evaluation procedures and guidelines for integrating data collection and
evaluation in the MIS and train local office staff to integrate these procedures into the local operations.
Also, an applied research and evaluation program, based on data obtained from the household and
establishment surveys, was envisaged to be developed in collaboration with the National Commission of
Statistics. As part of the overall MIS, the Project also envisaged the development of data collection
system for occupational safety.

Although an overall integrated MIS was not achieved, parts of it were developed mainly in the employment
area, with the support of the consulting services provided by GOPA (Germany).

However, the applied research and evaluation programs registered progress, through the completion of the
Net Impact Evaluation Study for the Labor Redeployment Program that helped adjusting and fine tuning
the operation of the programs, and through the institutionalization of the Household Survey that was
conducted by the National Commission of Statistics on a yearly basis providing the necessary data for
poverty evaluation reports.

B.       Automation of the Labor and Social Protection Offices (US$21.2 million). The initial objective
of this sub-component was to support the improvement of the overall management, planning and execution
of the MOLSP core responsibilities by selectively introducing automation to a number of activities, such as
the contribution records system of social insurance (pensions) and the unemployment benefit system.

As stated in the SAR, a National Data Center was supposed to be established and a country wide network
integrating all the local MOLSP offices. Given the multiple and subsequent legal and institutional changes
over the entire project life, the automation strategy was revised to accommodate these changes. As a result,
it was decided to implement the automation components in subsequent steps pending on the readiness of
each part of the social protection network (employment, pensions and social assistance) and leave the
overall integration for a later phase.

The project provided financial support for contracting IT consulting services to assist the MOLSP to: (i)
update the automation strategy, (ii) identify the IT system requirements for employment and pensions areas,
and (iii) prepare the bidding documents. The Department of Social Security of Australia was contracted to
implement these TA activities and delivered assistance and knowledge transfer to the MOLSP staff.

Automation of Employment Services. The first IT package launched was the turn-key automation system
for NAE, comprising a national network (WAN) with more than 200 local networks (LAN). The contract,
amounted to almost US$5.6 million was awarded to Siemens Business Solution (Austria). The system
became operational in March 2002, when the new Unemployment Law became effective. It was fully
functional in 2003 when it was successfully completed with the software for accounting, budget, asset



                                                      - 5 -

inventory and wage payments modules.

The hardware infrastructure of the system comprises: (i) 3 Risk Servers (AIX OS) at the NAE level; (ii)
160 Intel Servers (Linux OS) and 1398 workstations (Windows XP OS) in the local offices; and (iii) 52
LAN printers and 260 regular office printers, and the related communication and connectivity equipment.

Today, the system covers almost 80% of national and local level functions of the NAE, on-line: job
vacancies, job seekers records, benefit eligibility and payments, labor mediation, active labor market
services management and financial management.

Almost 2500 employment staff and 150 IT specialists were trained under the new IT system. The first
years of implementation revealed an improvement of the quality of the employment services provided by the
NAE network, speeding up the claim process as well as the benefits and service delivery.

Automation of Pensions Offices. The procurement for the second package was only launched once the
new Law on Pensions was approved in 2001. The contract amounting to US$8.5 million which was signed
in April 2003 was awarded to S&T System Integration & Technology Distribution AG (Austria). Given
the late launching of this package, the Bank jointly agreed with the MOLSP and the National House of
Pensions, to allow the extension of contract implementation beyond the ESPP closing date, with the
remaining activities following to be financed out of the subsequent ongoing Social Sector Development
Project. The NHP automation system is expected to be completed by end of 2004. When completed, it will
be the first system in Romania fully integrating the employers and employees registers with the pension
beneficiaries database.

Besides the above mentioned turn-key system, the MOLSP has also acquired during the project life,
significant quantities of office equipment (multiple function copiers, heavy duty and regular printers, paper
cutting machines for vouchers, PCs and off the shelf software) and office furniture both for the national
and local levels. Thus, at the end of March 2003, the NHP was fully functional with 1900 workstations
and servers and 260 LAN printers, country wide. This enabled the timely delivery of pension benefits for
almost 6.5 million of pensioners and non-contributory benefits (sick leave, maternity leave and farmers
benefits) for other 3 million beneficiaries.

C.       Project management (US$1.4 million). The Project Management was carried out over the entire
project life by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) consisting of 6 staff, covering all areas of expertise
requested for a proper implementation (financial management, procurement and disbursement). The
Project provided funds for the PCU staff training, IT and office equipment and furniture. For the first 36
months the PCU was assisted by foreign technical assistance provided by P.A. Management International,
Canada. The foreign consultants support ensured a smooth project take-off and an adequate knowledge
transfer to the PCU team. The PCU team was the same for the duration of the project and was one of the
reasons for the satisfactory implementation of the project. The Project financed the needed training in
procurement, disbursement and project management.

The PCU activity was complicated by the fact that it had to deal with three implementing agencies
(MOLSP, NAE, NHP) each of them with their own administrative structure and budget. In fact, under the
financial management area, the volume of activity was tripled, than in a normal project with one
implementing agency only.

In parallel, the same PCU ensured the necessary support for the preparation and the first two years
(2000-2003) of implementation of the follow-up operation (SSD Project), carrying out significant


                                                      - 6 -

additional workload.

During the entire project life, a number of 335 contracts for goods and 27 contracts for consulting services
were concluded. Complete lists of contracts for goods and services concluded during the entire life of the
project implementation are presented in the Borrower's contribution to the current ICR. As a result of the
competitive bidding procedures used in the procurement process, important savings were made, and thus
US$11.8 million were cancelled from the initial loan amount.

Component II: Employment and Training (US$46.1 million).
The overall achievement of objectives under Component II is rated satisfactory, with all the envisaged
outputs being achieved. Given the success in the implementation of its sub-components, the Government
requested that further support be provided in the follow-up project (SSD) in order to scale-up for results,
ensuring continued institutional development and further sustainability.

D.       Employment Services (US$18.8 million). This sub-component aimed to improve the capacity of
the MOLSP' Employment Services to: (a) deliver income support to the unemployed through the
Unemployment Benefit system; (b) assist in the labor redeployment of excess labor; and (c) implement
active labor programs to upgrade human capital. Three parallel activities were envisaged to be carried out:
re-defining the national administration and policy, development and delivery of employment services at the
local employment services level, and the design of special procedures for dealing with large-scale layoffs.

The MOLSP was also assisted in the design and implementation of this sub-component activities by the
German Society for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) financed by the German Government. The GTZ
consultants provided technical and logistical support for the establishment of the National Agency for
Employment (NAE) and its country wide network of local agencies, and for the design and partial delivery
of a comprehensive modular training program for the NAE staff and management.

The legal framework for the establishment of the NAE and its functioning statute were approved in 1998
and 1999. NAE was established as an autonomous entity with a tripartite administration board
(Government, trade unions and employers representatives) and became functional on January 1999. At the
project closing date the NAE is a strong institution, with employment offices at county (judet) and local
levels in 292 locations country wide, operating with almost 3,745 staff properly trained, ensuring a ratio of
staff /client of 1/177, as opposed to the ratio of 1/668 in 1993.

The NAE is financially sustainable (running budgetary surplus beginning with 2001) and provides
currently a wide range of employment services, switching more and more to the financing and provision of
active labor market measures, as opposed to its initial responsibilities which were limited to the delivery of
income support benefits (unemployment and post-unemployment benefits, severance payments and some
placement services). The unemployment benefits were rationalized beginning with 2001 when the new
unemployment legislation introduced flat benefits with variable time length, according to the time
previously worked, making thus a more efficient work incentive benefit system.

Staff Training. As above mentioned, the Project supported the design and delivery of a comprehensive
short-term training program for almost all the NAE staff (national and local levels), on a wide range of
specific topics and activities: placement and job matching, career information and counseling, adult training
development, local economic development planning, business incubators, SMEs financial support,
computer skills, labor market analysis and statistics, public awareness, human resources and employment
legislation. These courses were organized primarily for training the NAE's own trainers who were certified
and disseminated the knowledge to all the staff country wide. The design and delivery of the various


                                                      - 7 -

specialized training modules was conducted under each of the labor market sub-components with the
assistance of the relevant foreign consultants which were selected to provide the specific technical
assistance (GTZ-Germany for Employment Services, GOPA-Germany for National Adult Training Board,
United States Department Of Labor for Labor Redeployment Services, ACCC-Canada for Regional Adult
Training Centers and Phill Jarvis and Associates-Canada for Career Information and Counseling). In total,
more that 5000 man-months of staff training were delivered. These programs are described in more details
in the relevant sub-components further on, as well as in the Borrower's contribution to the current ICR.

Office equipment, furniture and vehicles. The Project supported the endowment of the central and local
offices with office equipment (copiers, fax machines, communication equipment, presentation materials and
equipment), IT equipment, office furniture and vehicles). The procurement of these goods was conducted
in tranches as the institutional needs were identified and the physical rehabilitation of the buildings
(financed out of the NAE's own funds) and served for the purposes of all activities related to the labor
market components. The procured equipment is also presented in more details in the relevant
sub-components further on, as well as in the Borrower's contribution to the current ICR. A separate
presentation of the Integrated IT System of the NAE, was previously done in the Automation
sub-component.

D1.      Labor Redeployment Program (US$ 10.5 million - by reallocation of funds). In addition, at the
time of project restructuring (1997), a new sub-component (Labor Redeployment Program) was introduced,
providing financial support for the actual delivery of a wide set of active labor market measures to address
frictional and structural unemployment as well as the lack of demand for labor to assist with the
redeployment of the workers collectively dismissed from the state-owned companies as a result of the
industrial restructuring programs agreed under the FESAL and ASAL programs. This sub-component was
designed under the Social Protection Loan, approved in 1997, as part of an overall and coherent reform
policy promoted by a Government willing to undertake painful reforms that needed strong social protection
support. The MOLSP was assisted in the implementation of this program by the foreign technical
assistance provided by the US Department of Labor. The loan amount allocated initially for the
contracting of LRP activities was US$8.5 million, the rest being spent for the technical assistance and the
preparation of the public awareness campaign. Finally the loan disbursed US$9.5 million against the active
measures.

The necessary legal framework, regulating for the first time in Romania the collective dismissals, the
provision of redeployment services and of the severance payments was approved in 1997. In 1998, more
than 92,000 clients (collectively displaced) were enrolled in a wide set of active measures: (i) employment
and relocation services including pre-layoff services, social and career counseling , labor market
information. job-seeking assistance, placement and relocation assistance; (ii) training and retraining
services (iii) small business development assistance; (iv) business incubators development; (v) temporary
employment in local communities public works and (iv) and local economic development planning
activities. More than 1,400 contracts were concluded in order to implement these activities.

A particular feature for Romania in this program is the eligibility for LRP services extended to members of
the military displaced from the Ministry of Defense structures as a result of the army downsizing and
restructuring process, a first time in the Region. In 2001, some 1,400 laid-off militaries were enrolled in
active labor programs, including business incubator services, contracted by the NAE in 101 contracts,
country wide. The table fully summarizes the aggregate results of the LRP, for both categories of clients
(civilian and militaries).




                                                      - 8 -

   Measure           No of          Clients         Clients     Placement       Unit Cost/    Unit Cost/       TOTAL
                   Contracts        Assisted        Placed       Rate (%)        Client         Client        COST ($)
                                                                                 Assist.        Placed.
Institutional               201          5,913          2,279            38.5           130            337        768,248
Training
On Job                        21           351             245           69.8           237            340          83,294
Training
SME                         259         30,815          4,443            14.4            54            375      1,664,852
Assistance
Temporary                   808         13,240         *1,761          *13.3            382         *2,874      5,060,891
Employment
Employment                  167         41,736          8,803            21.1            31            146      1,284,672

Services
Business                       6           168             148           88.1         2,541          2,884        426,870
Incubators
Local Ec.                     38                                                                                  289,236
Dev. Plans

                                                                     *541.7
TOTAL                     1500          92,223       *17,679        **328.4           103.8                     9,578,064
* the figures include only clients what were in permanent employment after programs ended. Another 11,479 clients obtained
short-term employment (6 months) during temporary community employment programs, out of which 10% continued on to
permanent employment.
*the figure includes both permanent and short term employed clients.

The results of the LRP program were also evaluated through a Net Impact Study conducted in April 2002.
The overall conclusion of the study was that the LRP had a positive impact on both employment and
incomes, reaching thus its objective, though the study revealed impact differences among the various
categories of beneficiaries, by the type of measure they participated in and type of client.

Measures such as employment and relocation services (41,736 participants) proved to be the most efficient
ones, with the fastest results for these participants who were frictionally unemployed. The participation in
training and retraining activities, increased the probability of long-term employment by 12% and more
targeted to those who were structurally unemployed. The provision of assistance and consulting services
for small business development, another highly demanded measure successfully transferred basic
knowledge on legal, management, marketing, sales, financial and accounting aspects of the business
process, to 30,815 participants and addressed the lack of demand for labor, and assisted in the development
of private sector.

A less efficient measure (high unit cost with low rate long-term employment probability) proved to be the
public works program, which enrolled a much lower number of participants (13,240) in 808 contracts,
implemented mainly the regions with high unemployment figures (mining and mono industrial areas), and
were the potential for social unrest was very high. The impact of this type of measure was similar with the
one from other countries in the region where similar programs were implemented, but in some cases it
makes sense to consider them, in order to attenuate the temporary high social costs of the economic
reforms. Anyway, the set of ceilings for this measure was justified and kept its magnitude at a reasonable
level. But, at the same time it is noteworthy mentioning that their social effects were obvious, contributing
to the rehabilitation of local roads and infrastructure and the environmental cleaning.



                                                            - 9 -

One of the big gains of this program, besides its positive outputs, its sustainability. Given the success of
the LRP, the Government updated the unemployment legislation, incorporating all these active measures
among the regular activities financed by the NAE out of its own budget.

E.       Career Information and Counseling - CIC (US$6.2 million). The objective of this
sub-component was to develop high quality career information and counseling procedures and materials, in
order to improve human resource allocation, labor force mobility and productivity and thereby the
cost-effectiveness of employment, education and training programs. The objective was successfully met,
and only the failure of contracting the automated career information system (very specialized software),
caused by the excessively high bid prices compared with the initial estimates, prevented the highly
successful rating. It is noteworthy that the development of this system is currently financed under the
ongoing SSD Project, and will thus be achieved.

Three Government Agencies were involved in the implementation of this sub-component: MOLSP,
Ministry of Education (MOE) and Ministry of Youth (MOY), on the basis of a Protocol of Collaboration
signed by the relevant ministers. These agencies were assisted in the program implementation by the
Canadian experts from Phillip S. Jarvis & Associates Inc., financed by the Canadian Government.

The main activities through which the objective was fully met were the following: (i) development of a
country wide network of CIC centers; (ii) design, production and distribution of specific materials and (iii)
short and long-term staff training.

CIC Centers. Based on the above mentioned Protocol, a network of 774 CIC centers was established
county wide in selected premises of the three partner agencies: 227 centers in employment offices, 500
centers in high schools and universities and 47 youth centers. These centers operate with properly trained
staff and with equipment and materials financed under the Project.

CIC Materials. A wide range of products and materials were produced and distributed free of charge
through the entire network: occupational profiles, posters, newspapers, video cassettes, aptitude and
interest tests. The CIC working group developed standards for 450 occupational profiles. These profiles
represent descriptions of selected occupations providing information related to work environment, physical
demand and activities, training requirements, institutions offering suitable training programs and salary
ranges. A career newspaper ("A Future for Everybody") was developed in 10 issues and printed in
1,250,000 copies each, containing information regarding national and global labor market trends, career
planning process, career pathway, occupational training - lifelong learning, job search process,
entrepreneurship, legislation, assessment and self assessment tests. Also a series of 12 career video
programs, presenting information about the labor market trends (careers of the future), job search
techniques, employability and presentation skills and attitudes was produced and distributed through the
network of CIC centers for which the Project supported the procurement of 1280 sets of video-tv
equipment.

The Project financed also the development of specialized software for a battery of professional and aptitude
and interest tests which were installed in the PCs procured and distributed within the entire network. A
second set of tests (psychological professional interest test "Interoptions") was granted by the Human
Resources Development of Canada, with all adapting-using rights for Romania for a permanent use. The
test which allows the evaluation of youth and adults interest for certain occupations or professions, was
translated, adapted and distributed widely through the network.



                                                    - 10 -

Training. The staff (1,670 persons) providing career counselling and guidance from the three partner
institutions involved in the implementation of this sub-component, got short-term modular training in order
to adequately provide the CIC services and make the best use to the materials developed under the Project.

In addition, the Project financed two long-term training programs, certified by a master degree diploma in
public policies and administration. The two programs were developed as a modular system (10 weeks for
theoretical training, 6 weeks for practical training and 17 long-distance courses). Almost 900 trainees
graduated these courses in two series, in 2001 and 2002.

The successful completion of this sub-component as well as the high demand for this kind of services and
materials, prompted the Government to request follow up support, in order to continue the program within
the SSD project, ensuring thus a great degree of sustainability.

F.       Adult Training (US$21.1 million). The objective of this sub-component was to redirect and
upgrade the skills of the labor force, thereby reducing structural unemployment, enhancing enterprise
productivity, and improving international competitiveness by: (i) expanding adult training opportunities for
the unemployed, employed workers who need to change or upgrade their skills, and first time job entrants,
(ii) meeting the training needs of the enterprises, which may have difficulty in providing training internally;
and (iii) restructuring the governance and administration of the adult training system at national and local
levels in order to make it demand driven.

This sub-component was slow to take-off mainly due to the novelty of the adult training concept at that
time in Romania, and to the fact that the Project threatened the old institutional training system used to
provide inefficient training in a supply driven approach, with a new system, capable to provide flexible and
modular training in order to properly respond to the market and clients demands.

The foreign technical assistance, provided by the GOPA consultants financed primarily by the German
Government, contributed to a large extent to the proper understanding of the adult training concept and to
the legal and institutional developments needed for the program implementation.

National Adult Training Board (NATB). Based on the Protocol agreed and signed by the MOLSP, the
trade unions and employers associations with the support of the German consultants, has developed the
necessary legal framework for the establishment of the NATB which was finally approved in 1999. The
NATB was established with a tripartite management structure, with representatives form the trade unions,
employers associations and relevant Government institutions. The NATB started functioning as a structure
with consultative role to the Government, in the development and promotion of adult training strategies,
coordinating and controlling the following activities: (i) the accreditation of the training providers; (ii) the
development of the occupational standards; and (iii) the assessment and certification of the professional
competences acquired by the adult trainees through the continuous training. Later on, the NATB Law was
amended (2003), and the NATB merged with the Commission for Occupational Standards and
Accreditation (COSA), an entity established previously under the Education Reform Project, taking over
these additional responsibilities.

Regional Adult Training Centers (RATCs). Initially the Project was supposed to finance the
establishment of three RATCs as independent agencies under the authority of a tripartite regional board,
with the aim of developing and delivering short-term modular training with flexible entry/exit, to rapidly
respond to the labor market demands, as well as support programs including career counseling, small
business assistance, and customized training. As time elapsed and the client better understood the gains of
this demand driven approach, the MOLSP requested the increase of the RATCs number to five.


                                                     - 11 -

The site selection process for the five RATCs was hampered for a long time by the multiple changes in the
property status of the buildings identified, as a result of the various claims of property restitution. Finally
the locations for the five RATCs were: Ramnicu-Vilcea, Turnu-Magurele, Constanta, Cluj and Craiova.
The Borrower used its own funds to rehabilitate the selected buildings at a reasonable cost and with a good
quality.

In the implementation of this sub-component, the MOLSP and NAE were properly assisted by the
consultants from Association of Community Colleges of Canada (ACCC) under a large and complex
technical assistance contract. The Canadian consultants together with the NAE experts developed
institutional administrative and operational procedures, modular curriculum for up to 10 training modules
for each RATC, lists of equipment and related technical specifications, and training programs for the
RATCs staff and the instructors (including the training delivery for 150 trainees). The Project financed
also a comprehensive study tour program in countries with relevant experience in the region (Hungary
mainly) and overseas (Canada), for the RATCs management and technical staff.

At the time of the project closing date, all 5 RATCs were fully functional, capable of providing modular
training for 34 programs. It is worth mentioning that the placement rate for the first cohorts of trainees that
graduated the various training programs was higher than 90%. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR
presents in great details the lists of teaching equipment and training modules which are currently being
delivered.

Overall, the adult training sub-component successfully met its development objectives, in spite of the
lengthy implementation process. Moreover, based on the sub-component success, the Government
requested the Bank to provide additional financial support in order to upgrade the NAE's own network of
21 local training centers in the same approach, under the currently implementing SSD Project.

Component III: Social Protection. The objective of this component was to implement reforms and
restore financial viability, specifically the social insurance system and give better social assistance to those
most in need. This component was structured in two sub-components: social insurance (pensions) and
social assistance. Although significant delays in the implementation of this component were observed,
caused by the lengthy legislative process especially in the area of pensions reforms, the objectives were
successfully met.

G.       Social Insurance Reforms (US$3.8 million). This sub-component aimed to develop a financially
viable, contributions-based social insurance system to protect contributors and their families from complete
loss of income, due to old age, disability, illness or death.

Public Pensions System. Based on the recommendations included in the Social Insurance White Paper
(1993), the MOLSP prepared draft legislation aiming to reform the public pensions system by: (i)
increasing the retirement age; (ii) diminishing the gap between the men's and women's retirement ages; (iii)
introducing a new benefit formula taking into account the entire work life of the contributors; (iv)
establishing a better relationship between the contribution and benefit levels, by capping the contributions,
(v) improving the revenue collection; and establishing an autonomous pensions administration institution
with tripartite management board (Government, employers and trade unions representatives). The draft law
was approved by the Government and submitted for the Parliament approval in 1996. Unfortunately, due to
the political changes and the continuous turnover of senior decision makers, the approval process was
significantly slowed down, being finalized only in 2000. The new law came into force in April 2001.




                                                       - 12 -

The MOLSP was assisted in the implementation of this component (preparation of primary and secondary
legislation, institutional establishment of the NHP, and staff training) by the consultants from PLS Consult
Denmark. A complex set of regulations, norms and studies was also prepared and piloted in selected
pensions offices, with the support of the external consultants in the following areas: (i) eligibility criteria
for disability pensions; criteria for beneficiaries of early retirement for working in difficult conditions (hard
labor), public awareness, development of a timely and efficient pensions payment system, infrastructure
needs assessment, revenue collection and fraud control procedures, revision of the IT C strategy, design a
new financial management system.

In the area of institutional capacity building, a strategic business plan for the NHP and its territorial
branches was developed, training needs assessment was conducted, training materials were developed and
training for trainers programs were completed. All the NHP staff was trained in the areas of expertise
relevant to their positions in the new institution (NHP).

Given the short time elapsed since the new pensions law became effective (April 2001) until the project
closing date and the gradual implementation of the parametric reforms, major improvements in the financial
sustainability of the public pensions system has been difficult to observe. However, promising signs of
recovery have been noticed, the fiscal deficit of the pensions fund slightly decreased from 0.87% of the
GDP in 2001 to 0.38% of the GDP in 2003 in spite of the unfavorable trend of the demographics. At the
same time, the number of the early retirement future beneficiaries (for special and difficult work conditions)
has been reduced from 1.3 million persons to less than 400,000 although the evaluation process for the
special and difficult work conditions is still ongoing, the revenue collection performance has improved due
to the tight measures take by the Government in the financial discipline area. The recently launched
process of unification of the revenue collection for all social funds (pensions, unemployment and health)
under the authority of the Ministry of Public Finances is expected to provide more room for further
improvements.

The latest financial projections conducted by the Bank, using the actuarial model developed by the Bank
(PROST), predicted a consolidated public pension fund for the near future (2007-2008) capable of
supporting the transition costs envisaged during second pensions pillar (mandatory contribution and private
management of pension funds).

Another major activity financed out of the loan funds, was the informatization of the NHP processes. The
integrated IT system was contracted with S & T Austria after a long procurement cycle (almost two years),
caused by the (i) late approval of the new pensions law, (ii) complexity of the system requirements, and (iii)
slow internal review process in the Bank (lack of IT experts available to conduct the review). Due to the
this lengthy process the time for the actual implementation of the contract, exceeded the revised project
closing date. At the Government request, the Bank agreed to finance the implementation of this contract in
two steps: first part under the ESPP and the remaining activities out of the ongoing SSD Project. The
Automation sub-component describes in detail the IT program for the NHP.

Private Pensions. Upon the Borrower's request, the ESPP supported also the technical assistance for the
preparation of the draft legal framework for the introduction of the private pension schemes. The contract
was awarded to Pro Democratia Foundation (Switzerland). The foreign consultants conducted jointly with
the Romanian experts a comprehensive set of economic, demographic and financial simulations, in order to
assess the feasibility of the implementation of the private pensions. Following the validation of these studies
the experts prepared the draft legislation for both the second and third private pension pillars (mandatory
and supplementary). The draft secondary legislation related to the prudential regulations, supervisory
institutional framework, actuarial instruments, communications strategy as well as local and abroad


                                                       - 13 -

training of the Romanian specialists were developed and provided under the Project. Unfortunately the
approval process of the private pensions law (second pillar) was hampered by the excessively cautious
approach of the Government, caused mainly by the past major crises that shocked the capital market in
Romania. Since the actual approval of the private pensions Law was not among the objectives of the
ESPP, it did not endanger the outcomes of the sub-component.

H        Social Assistance Reforms (US$5.3 million). The objective of this sub-component was to ensure
the implementation of the income support benefit law and to support the design of a new social assistance
framework legislation aimed to improve the efficiency of the cash benefits and services delivery to the most
needy groups of population. Initially, this sub-component was designed to support the implementation of
the income support benefit law, but due to the fact that the above mentioned legislation was approved
before the loan effectiveness, the sub-component design was reshaped in order to support the preparation of
the new National Social Assistance Framework Law, and its first steps of implementation. In parallel, the
Project supported the redesign of the above mentioned cash benefit system, which introduced the Minimum
Income Guarantee (MIG) Benefit - Law approved in 2001 - and the early steps of implementation. The
MOLSP was assisted during the whole process, beginning in 1998, by the French consultants from Caisse
d'Allocation Familliale du Sud Finistere.

The National Social Assistance Framework Law incorporates the main principles recommended by the
Government's White Paper on Social Assistance Reform, aimed to: (i) enhance the decentralization process;
(ii) consolidate the wide and complex range of benefits and services, (iii) improve the financing of the social
assistance programs, (iv) establish improved eligibility criteria and (v) improve the delivery of the social
assistance services and cash benefits.

The main feature of the new law was the change of focus from the income support benefits to the
development and delivery of services in collaboration with the NGO sector, an area of assistance neglected
so far. At the same time, the new law promotes a participatory approach in the decision making process at
the county (judet) level, involving all the interested stakeholders. In this sense, the secondary legislation for
the establishment of the Departments for Public Social Assistance Services at the Judet Council level, was
passed. The institutional building of the structures of the new social assistance system continues under the
ongoing SSD Project.

The MIG Law, introduced a conditional cash benefit (proxi-means tested), targeted to the poorest families
and individuals, which replaced the old income support system that became obsolete and meaningless. The
first two years of MIG implementation revealed positive results, some of them unexpected at the time of the
law design. The workfare requirement (up to 72 hours/month of community employment) became an
efficient self-targeting mechanism, so that only the ones in real need complied with this requirement. In
2002, the MIG program covered 619,000 families (1,098,453 persons), representing almost 5% of the
total population. The total cost of the program was 0.28% of the GDP. The last Poverty Assessment for
Romania (June 2003) showed that the MIG was the best targeted program in the Region, 62% of the
benefits going to the poorest 20% of the population, but the coverage is still weak. Similar figures were
registered for 2003. Other positive results observed were the increase of the social capital and community
participation and the issuance of IDs to the applicants that never had before (especially Roma). At the
same time, as a result of the requirement for the applicants to register as job seekers with the employment
offices, suddenly, the total level of registered unemployment increased by three percentage points (end of
2001). The MIG implementation performance was evaluated in a study jointly financed by the Project and
the DFID and its recommendation are currently being considered for improving the legal framework.

The Project financed also the development, printing and dissemination of public awareness campaign


                                                      - 14 -

materials to promote the new laws and to help their implementation: booklets comprising the texts of the
MIG Law, the implementation norms and the National Social Assistance Framework Law (16,000 copies),
posters and leaflets for MIG (200,000 copies), application forms for MIG (3.9 million copies), and a video
tape presenting best practice cases of MIG implementation. Six training workshops for the MOLSP and
Judet Councils staff involved in the MIG implementation were also organized.

As mentioned in the Automation sub-component, the development of the IT system for the social assistance
was dropped from the ESPP and incorporated in the ongoing SSD Project, due to the delay in the approval
of the reforms legislation. Only a limited amount of IT and office equipment was purchased under the
Project for basic automation needs. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR presents detailed information
on the equipment procured under the Project.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact for this project is rated high. The project supported the establishment
and development of three new institutions (headquarters and local offices): National Agency for
Employment, National House of Pensions, and National Adult Training Board, all of them with tripartite
management boards (government, trade unions and employers), and are continuing to operate.

While the NAE and the NHP were established as semi-autonomous agencies under the umbrella of the
MOLSP, by taking over the responsibilities previously covered by the MOLSP and the relevant staff, the
NATB is a new autonomous entity with genuine responsibilities, having a consultative role to the
Government in the design of the adult training policies, financing and accreditation of the training
providers.

The five RATCs established under the Project are functioning at high international standards, and some of
their training programs have already been internationally accredited, and the network is being extended
under the ongoing SSD Project.

The project supported also the institutional capacity building of the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection and its de-concentrated offices especially in the areas of career counseling, pensions and social
assistance reforms, policy monitoring and evaluation. Besides the professional training (local and abroad)
relevant for each domain and activity of the social protection, the staff of all agencies received appropriate
training in computer use.

As a result of the support provided under the Project, all these institutions are today fully functional,
operating in a demand driven approach, with qualified staff and modern office equipment and with
adequate budget support.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The political changes resulted from the electoral cycles, had repercussions in the timely implementation of
the Project due to the significant delays in the approval of the legislation enabling reforms in the pensions



                                                     - 15 -

and social assistance areas.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Staff turnover. The frequent technical staff changes at the decision making levels in the MOLSP
hampered and slowed down the implementation process. Each time new component coordinators were
appointed significant time was lost until they familiarized with the Project philosophy, content and
procedures. However, as noted before, the PCU staff were retained over the full duration of the Project,
which provided institutional continuity.

Budget support. At some incidental cases when the country faced severe budgetary constraints, the
budget allocations for both loan funds and local counterpart funds were significantly reduced and thus
slowed the procurement and disbursement performance. However, even in such cases the problems were
solved allowing thus the MOLSP to catch up with some of the delays and finally meet the project objectives

Financial management. At the time the loan was ratified the Government decided to develop and maintain
over the entire implementation period, separate financial management and accounting systems for each of
the implementing agencies, due to the fact that each agency had its own budget source: MOLSP (State
Budget), NAE (Unemployment Budget) and NHP (Social Insurance Budget). While not arguing against
this decision, the observation that this multiple recording system imposed additional workload on the PCU
and slowed down the daily implementation process, is valid.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The internal approval processes developed for covering the fiduciary responsibilities were very complex
and cumbersome necessitating a huge number of signatures, almost 57 for each contracting phase and
payment tranche. It was a great surprise even for some of the Cabinet members to realize the complexity
of this process, but unfortunately not much could be done in order to simplify it.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated to be US$95.2 million out of which US$55.4 million was to be
financed by the Bank, US$2.8 million by the bilateral donors (Canada, Germany and US), and the rest of
US$37.0 million by the Romanian Government. At the end of the project, US$11.8 million were cancelled,
mainly as a result of the savings coming from the competitive procurement procedures applied under the
project and of the significant fall in the prices of IT and office equipment.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability rating is likely.
Institutional sustainability. The newly established institutions (National Employment Agency and
National House of Pensions) and their country wide networks are already solid and mature. They have
qualified and responsible management, properly trained and experienced technical staff and adequate office
infrastructure. The budgets are stable and increasing (they are significant portions of the GDP: more than
1% in the case of the NAE and 7.4% in the case of the NHP, in 2002. The organization and the services
provided are in line with the EU accession requirements.

Policy and processes sustainability. The active labor market services, adult training, and career
counseling were concepts and activities newly introduced by the ESPP. As expected, the implementation of
these concepts was slow until they were understood and the benefits recognized. However, in the end, the
needed legislation was passed enabling adequate financing of these activities. In some areas, such as career
counseling, Romania is mentioned as having one of the best developed support systems in the Region.


                                                       - 16 -

The fact that the Government asked the Bank to scale up these programs under the currently implementing
SSD Project is an encouraging and realistic indication that the policy developments, the new institutions
and process put in place are likely to be sustainable on medium and long-term goals.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The new employment legislation included the activities financed by the NAE and active measures were
developed and implemented under the Labor Redeployment Program. Given the strong financial position of
the NAE, adequate financial resources are available to support the implementation of these active measures
on an ongoing basis.

Following the successful completion of the RATCs sub-component, the Government decided to extend this
approach to the entire network of 20 local training centers, so that in the end these centers could compete
with the RATCs to access public and private funds.

The parametric reforms introduced in the public pensions system as well as the implementation MIG Law
proved to be successful. These reforms are currently continuing, their legal framework being updated. The
Government approved an action plan for the consolidation of the public pensions system by speeding up
the previously approved parametric reforms as part of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan currently under
preparation. The SSD Project provides support for the establishment of the Private Pensions Supervision
Commission. On social assistance area, the SSD Project continues to support the implementation of the
new national social assistance system, in a joint effort with the EU Phare program, and the improvement of
the MIG legislation is also envisaged for 2004.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory with respect to identification, preparation and appraisal of the project.
The Bank approved in 1992, a PHRD Grant amounted to JPY 67.6 million for sector work, identification
and project preparation. At the Government's request the Bank agreed to administer the PHRD Grant, with
the understanding that the local expertise would be also involved in the technical work for the project
preparation. The project design was consistent with the Bank's CAS and country study previously
conducted (released in 1992) for Romania: "Human Resources and Transition to a Market Economy".

The project preparation cycle was quite lengthy (more that three years until it became effective in
December 1995). As a result the preparation costs were significantly high, but this tended to be a common
feature for the first generation of projects in the social sectors in the early years of the transition in ECA
countries.

The project design was very ambitious, maybe too ambitious, trying to cover all areas of the social
protection, introducing many new concepts and principles, and promoting reforms which in some cases
were not easily accepted (especially in the pensions area).

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory throughout project implementation. The core of the
team that prepared the project, continued to supervise it for most if its implementation. The decision to
decentralize the task management of the project in the field for the last years of the project life, contributed
to closely monitoring project implementation and timely response to the client needs. The project was
restructured in 1997, by introducing the LRP to help the Government implement a wide range of active



                                                      - 17 -

labor market measures for a large number of collectively displaced workers. The restructuring did not
change the project objectives which remained valid over the entire life of project implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. From sector work to supervision and project
restructuring, the Bank provided adequate teams with a wide range of expertise in all the project areas:
labor market, pensions, social assistance and information technology. The dialogue with the Government
and the implementing agencies was in the end a productive one, but acknowledging areas of policy
disagreement at various stages in the project life. The expertise, diplomacy and commitment to the reform
principles of the Bank's team members was extremely useful in reaching agreements on some of the
sensitive areas of reforms supported by the Project (especially pensions and adult training).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government agencies performed satisfactorily throughout the extensive sector work and preparation
phase of the project. This was helped by the availability of the PHRD Grant mentioned above, which
allowed extensive participation of the various government agencies as well as of the social partners
(employers and employees associations) in the project design and preparation phases. The agreed
legislation and collaboration protocols needed to be in place in order to enable the implementation of social
assistance component and labor market activities were passed prior to negotiations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
In spite of the delays registered in the initiation of the legal frameworks in some of the project areas, such
as adult training and pensions for which the rating in 1997 was unsatisfactory and put the project at risk,
the Government overall implementation performance is still rated satisfactory, having in mind that the
development objectives were fully met. The availability of counterpart funds was to a large extent ensured,
though with some gaps in the periods when the country faced significant budgetary constraint. At these
moments, the MOF's due diligence and support as well as the continuos assistance in the dialogue with the
Bank were extremely helpful. The Government could have been more proactive in the design and approval
process of the public pensions reforms, but due to the sensitivity of these reforms, the whole process was
much longer than initially expected.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The ESPP was one of the first projects in Romanian in whose implementation were involved more
government and nongovernment agencies. Just a brief listing of these agencies will help getting sense of the
complex implementation arrangements that had to be in place: MOLSP, NAE, NHP, MOE, MOY, NATB
and MOD lately (three of them having tripartite management structures).

The PCU staff was properly trained in project management, procurement and disbursement and had the
same competence during the entire project implementation, ensuring the continuity that helped the project to
overcome the critical moments that it faced at some times. Moreover, the heavy work load imposed by the
complex financial management requirements makes even more notable the PCU performance.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Taking into account the satisfactory performance of the Government and of the implementing agencies, the
overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Despite the several difficulties encountered during the
project life including the two changes in the Government, as part of the regular election schedule in 1996
and 2000 plus the six changes in ministers of labor and social protection, the Borrower as a whole,
remained actively engaged in the project implementation.




                                                        - 18 -

8. Lessons Learned

Complexity. As many of the first generation of projects in the transition countries, the project design was
fairly complex. The already widely spread expression of "Christmas tree project" applies to the ESPP as
well. To a large extent, the rationale for the high complexity derives from the comprehensive set of
recommendations included in the Bank's report "Human Resources and the Transition to a Market
Economy in Romania" (2002). While the statement that a less ambitious project design would have
allowed an easier and faster implementation may be accepted, it would be fair to say that in the end the
efforts paid off, since all the project development objectives were satisfactorily achieved.

Donors involvement in the project preparation helped very much the process on one hand, and secured a
significant amount of valuable technical assistance, delivered during the implementation, on grant basis, for
the development of employment services, adult training, career counseling and active labor market
measures.

Stakeholders participation (trade unions and employers associations) was also very helpful in building up
consensus, and ensuring active support and participation during the project implementation.

Multiple implementing agencies. The coordination of the large number of implementing agencies
(Government and non-Government) involved in the implementation of the various project components and
sub-components requested significant effort on the PCU side, especially in the early years of the project
life, when the consultative process was not very smooth.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Public Finance (General Directorate for External Public Finance) and the
implementing agency provided comments to the draft ICR which were incorporated in the final
version, endorsed by the Ministry of Public Finance through the letter dated May 13, 2004.

(a1) Borrower's Report:

                      MINISTRY OF LABOR, SOCIAL SOLIDARITY AND FAMILY

                                                  REPORT
                            Regarding the Implementation of the Project on
                                    Employment and Social Protection
                                              Loan # 3849 RO

        Romania's history changed course after 1990, steering towards a new development era
based on the market-oriented economy. Among other changes it had to go through Romania had
to fundamentally restructure its social security system to make it compatible with the urgent needs
of the transition period. The process of reshaping the social protection system in all constitutive
parts  work force, social security and social assistance  started right after the turning point in
the country's history. The World Bank has been a constant and steady supporter of the new
developments through the technical assistance it granted for the building up and legal
substantiation of reforms, as well as the financial support required for the establishing and
organizing of the institutions meant to implement these reforms.



                                                     - 19 -

The World Bank's assistance started in the TACI (Technical Assistance and Critical Imports)
project whereby Romania, in 1992-1994, first embarked on addressing the social security issues
for the unemployed, and the specific related services. In 1993, the alternatives in the social
protection reform were presented  for social security issues - in the White Paper on the Social
Security and Pensions Reform, and for social assistance  in the White Paper on the Social
Assistance System.

In the second project with World Bank support  the ESPP (Employment and Social
Protection Project) essential steps forward were made in social protection issues. The project
was in operation from 1995 to 2003, putting in final form the basic laws and establishing the basic
specific institutions relating to employment, social security for the unemployed, and the pensions.
The social assistance system reform was initiated also during this period, 1995-2003.

The World Bank's support will keep sustaining the already-operating institutions, and assisting in
completing the reforms in the pensions' and social assistance systems, through the SSD (Social
Sector Development) project, over 2003-2007.
The present REPORT is aimed at displaying the targets of the Employment and Social
Protection project, as well as the extent of their having been completed through project
implementation.

                                       PROJECT OVERVIEW

        The Work Force and Social Security Project has been aimed at supporting the reforms in
the fields of work and social security, by assisting the establishing and development of institutions
that are apt to implement these reforms. The project is basically one for institutional building.
The project's structure by COMPONENTS, Sub-components and Targets is the following:

        I. (A) OVERALL ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
                 I.1     Follow-up and Analysis
-       Training programs information/management system
-       Social assistance programs information/management system
-       Assessment of employment programs
-       Assessment of social assistance programs
-       Integrated households' survey
-       Labor safety
                I. 2     Introducing Information Technology (IT)
-       Work force offices system
-       Social security system
-       Social assistance system
                I.3      Project Coordination

II. (B) WORK FORCE AND TRAINING
        II.1     Work force Services
-       Cross-country and local managerial structure
-       Labor market



                                                 - 20 -

-       Local work force offices
-       Industrial adjustment services
                II.2    Vocational Guidance and Information
                II.3    Training for the Adults
-       The National Council for the Adults Vocational Training
-       Regional centers for the adults' training
-       Adults' training on contract

        III. (C)SOCIAL PROTECTION
        III.1    Social Security
        III.2    Social Assistance

        The negotiated, overall Project cost was $ 96.7 million, with a 5-year implementation
period.
Project funding was planned to run as follows:
        $ 55.4 million ........................IBRD loan
        $ 38.5 million ........................local costs
          $2.8 million ........................bilateral, non-reimbursable co-funding

                     MODIFICATIONS OPERATED TO THE PROJECT

1.      Following the implementation of enterprise restructuring, privatization and liquidation
programs steps had to be taken to provide social security to those who had been laid off through
restructuring.

        Considering the urgent nature of the mentioned steps for the concerned stage of the
program MOLSP examined the Project cost structure by targets and proposed re-allocation of
certain amounts so that $10.58 million become available as funding for a program specially
designed for that purpose.

        The funds thus available resulted from:
-       non-allocated funds ....................................... $4.8 million
-       funds for adults' training on contract .................. $5.78 million

2.      Savings were identified that provided the possibility of cutting on the loan agreement's
value, after full implementation of a part of the Project's objectives, and following the examination
of the stage of implementation of the remaining Project objectives. A last extension of the
loan-withdrawal deadline was therefore requested.

Thus, a reduction of $5.7 million from the loan amount was agreed upon, as well as the extension
to September 30, 2003 of the loan-withdrawal deadline.

                          PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS

WORK FORCE AND TRAINING



                                                    - 21 -

        II.1    Work Force Services

        This sub-component was aimed as an institutional building objective, namely `The
cross-country and local managerial structure of work force offices' and `The local work
force offices', designed to provide social protection conditions and services to job-seekers, from a
structural and human resource standpoint.
        The sub-component has deployed a number of activities, such as:
-       The implementation of a comprehensive short-term training plan for about 2,500 people;
-       Training the directors of local employment offices, and the implementation of the system
of local and cross-country performance indicators in all local employment offices;
-       Assessment of the net impact of the training programs, with Unemployment fund
budgeting;
-       Pilot-project on the inquiries in the local labor market of the selected counties;
-       Assessment of the basic needs in office equipment for all local employment offices, and
purchasing the office equipment for these local offices.

NAE Staff Training

        The purpose of this activity was to use short- and medium-term training programs for
developing NAE staff's capacity to provide quality services to job-seekers. Between 1997-2003,
the training programs focused on the following activities:
I.      Establishing work-groups (DEL  Local Economic Development; MACS  Pro-Active
Anti-Unemployment Measures; GRASP  The Assistance Group for Pre-Layoff Services).
II.     Training trainers in labor mediation and statistics:
III.    Training trainers for the implementation of the pro-active anti-unemployment
measures.
IV.     Training for the implementation of Law 76/2002: 44 participants.
V.      Early stage in training on Public Relations and Promotion of Institutional Image,
for 50 managers from the national and county agencies, with technical assistance by USDOL.
VI.     Training in Human Resources: - 102 participants
VII.    IT staff training: 200 participants
VIII. Training for the devising of the employment balance: 102 participants at regional
courses.
IX.     Business Incubator  pro-active anti-unemployment measure.
X.      Credit for SMEs: trainers from the Romanian Banking Institute. Graduation certificates
for graduates.
XI.     Vocational information and guidance:. 144 specialists attended the courses.
-       Labor market analysis:

Outfitting NAE with Equipment

One of the Project objectives was to rehabilitate local employment offices by outfitting them with
office equipment and consumables, equipment for the development and implementation of
employment programs, introducing IT, supplying and using computers and computer programs,



                                                 - 22 -

purchasing vehicles (cars).

The Project Purchases component included the equipment used for dissemination of specific
information (copiers, fax machines), as well as other categories of equipment for the staff's
permanent training activities (projectors, flipcharts, writing boards, projector screens, color TV
sets, video-recorders, etc.)

II.2.   Vocational Information and Guidance

The aim of the Project's objective "Vocational Information and Guidance" (ICC) was to
develop career planning and improving in the integrated approach of a consistent, modern and
flexible vocational information and guidance system, by means of:
       Establishing a network of vocational information and guidance centers, with appropriate
logistics;
       Designing, carrying out, and implementing products and activities in vocational
information and guidance;
       Training programs for the vocational guidance advisors.

        Three ministries were initially involved in the Project: the Ministry of Labor, Social
Solidarity and Family (MOLSP), the Ministry of Education and Research (MOE), and the
Ministry of Youth and Sports (MOY). A network of Vocational Information and Guidance
Centers (774 centers) was established as follows: 227 centers with the County Employment
Agencies (AJOFM), 500 centers in schools, and 47 MOE centers for the Information of the
Young.

        The Project's expected vocational information, guidance products and materials were:
-       Printed materials: occupational profiles, posters, newspaper on career issues;
-       Videotapes on career issues;
-       Psychological tests on vocational interests and skills;
-       Inter-active testing and assistance computer system for career selection.

      The Project also included short- and long-term training programs, the latter category with
master degree and certificate.

II.3.   Training for the Adults

The "training for adults" objective benefited from a complex approach as it concerned the topic of
employment from the standpoint of this particular population category.
The distinctive feature of the Project lays in introducing and defining the population category of "
adults". These represent that part of the active population, which includes the young
graduates of high schools, employees trying to change occupation or improve their skills,
and the job-seekers, and who are all liable to respond to labor market requirements with respect
to qualification.
        The goals towards which the efforts have been directed are:
       Establishing a tripartite body  Government, Trade Unions, Employers  meant to develop



                                                - 23 -

strategies for the training of adult persons, which are apt to harmonize the work force structure
with labor market requirements in terms of training, according to the stages of economic
development.
       Developing a comprehensive system of vocational guidance and information, accessible to
all categories of adults, and
       Building modern capacities of vocational training within the National Agency for
Employment, accessible to all adults.

        The National Council for the Adults' Vocational Training

        The structure and draft legal project of the National Council for Vocational Training
(CNFP) were designed. CNFP is a body designed to coordinate, at country level, the programs for
the training of the adults, and provide through its strategies a work force structure harmonized
with labor market requirements, which, consequently, would allow the effective utilization of the
vocational training funds.

Regional Centers for the Adults' Training

The Project has stipulated resources for a network of six Regional Centers for the Adults'
Training, in order to develop the capacities for the adults' training by means of methods that befit
this population category, and with modern means.
The selection of the regional-center locations took into account the distribution of the existing
capacities for vocational training, as well as the regional needs for the same matter.

SOCIAL PROTECTION

        III.1   Social Security
        The options for social security reforms came for the first time on debate in 1993, in the
White Paper on Social Security and the Pensions' System Reform, which was issued in the TACI
(Technical Assistance and Critical Imports) Project with World Bank funding.

        In original form, the project Work Force and Social Security stipulated support for the
reforms relating to the public pensions system, respectively development of the legislative
framework, and the establishment of an institution that would provide effective management of
the public pensions fund. Later on, funds were re-allocated among the various project components
so that resources were created for studies aimed at establishing pension systems under private
administration as a complement to the public pensions system.

        The Public Pensions System

        The main objectives of the public pensions system (PPS) reform stipulated in the project
were directed at integrating the pension funds, improving the PPS managerial and institutional
structure, and its financial administration, as well as the pension payment procedures.
        MOLSP specialists and the team of consultants carried out a series of activities that were
directed at meeting the planned objectives. These activities included:



                                                 - 24 -

       Developing a plan for the implementation of and dissemination of information on
the new social security system, consisting in:
       Developing an effective system for supplying the due benefits to their recipients,
consisting in:
       Developing an integrated system for collecting and recording the social security
contributions:
       Developing an accounting and financial management system containing:
       Developing an Information Management System, and improving the analysis and
evaluation capacity by:
       Institutional Development

       Considering all these efforts, the public pensions system has been reconstructed by means
of Law 19/2000 regarding the public system of pensions and other social security benefits,
and secured institutionally by the establishment of the National House of Pensions and Other
Social Security Benefits (NHP). The statute of NHP was approved through Government
Decision no. 1065/2000 on the approval of the NHP statute.

       The project has also drawn up the technical specifications for developing the integrated
information system that NHP activities require, selecting the supplier thereof, and completing over
50% of the necessary works by loan closing date. The NHP integrated information system will be
completed with Social Sector Development (SSD) funds. The `IT Introduction' chapter
describes the NHP integrated information system.

The Pensions System under Private Administration

The preoccupation for developing capitalized pensions systems under private Administration
arose from the analysis conducted on the Romanian pensions system which, in the medium and
short term could not provide sufficient financial security to the elderly, as well as from the need
for a correlated implementation.

The main target-domains and the documentation issued are:

       Economic, demographic and financial simulations needed for the implementation of
the capitalized pensions system under private administration, which include:
       Preparing and developing the prudential provisions on the operation of capitalized
pension funds and the companies for the administration thereof.
       Defining and designing the actuarial instruments for the examination and control of
capitalized pension funds under private administration, which includes:
       Defining and designing the institutional framework for the implementation and
operation of the capitalized pension system

       Developing draft laws required for the implementation of the system of capitalized
pensions under private administration.
       Examination of the legislative amendments to the universal pension-funds


                                               - 25 -

organization and functioning.
       Utilization of privatization procedures for the funding of the costs of transition, as
well as/or the additional benefits for current pensioners.
       Developing the legislative strategy for Parliamentary support, and the strategy for
informing civil society's leading actors - trade unions, vocational associations, etc.  and
involving them in public information campaigns.
       Training Romanian specialists in and outside the country, for the implementation
and functioning of the system of capitalized pensions under private administration.

       The preoccupation for promoting a system of capitalized pensions under private
administration has lasted to date. Currently, a new draft law on this type of pension system is
being prepared for examination in Parliament, as part of the overall reform of the Romanian
pension system.

III.2. Social Assistance

       The `Social Assistance' sub-component was firstly aimed as support to the implementation
of the Family Aid Law that had already passed and whose enforcing started prior to Project
implementation. Consequently, the objectives in this project sub-component had to be
reconsidered.
A new set of the Project's terms of reference (TOR) was developed in accordance with the
current stage of the reforms and the specific needs of social assistance. The new TOR objectives
were harmonized with recent evolutions in social assistance, and the World Bank agreed to them,
also. The actual project activities started in October 1998, in four major action lines with the
assistance of "Caisse d' Allocations Familiales du Sud Finistere  France":
:
       Line I:        Legislation
       Line II:       System Structuring
       Line III:      Management - Information System
       Line IV:       Staff Training

The results were presented to the new MOLSP leadership, who agreed              to carry out the
Test-Phase for the Automation Component whereby the unique payment system of family
aid benefits was on test.

PROGRAM OF PRO-ACTIVE MEASURES

The program's stated objective was to mitigate the negative, economic and social impact of
the enterprise privatization, restructuring and liquidation processes in Romania, by means
of a pack of pro-active services aimed at facilitating the reinsertion of laid-off workers in
the labor market, as soon as possible.
A Program for Work Force Redistribution (PRFM) was developed in 1997, responding to the
massive layoffs that took place in the power-consuming, inefficient industrial branches. The
program was designed with the direct assistance of the foreign experts of USDOL (US
Department of Labor), and the World Bank. USDOL provided technical assistance following the



                                                - 26 -

December 1998 contract whereby $1.4m was allocated, as part of the overall loan program
allocation of $10.5m.
         The panel of pro-active measures that the program supplied includes:

1.       Employment-relocation services. Training and re-training services.
2.       Employment in public services.
3.       Assistance and consulting for the development of small businesses
4.       Assistance programs for the development of business incubators.
5.       Services for planning the local economic development

         In PRFM, more than 1,400 contracts for pro-active measures were concluded, for over
92,000 eligible persons. The overall placement rate in these contracts was 19% (17,463 people
were placed to job / 92,017 clients).
        The effectiveness of the redistribution program was also highlighted in the Report on the
Program's net impact assessment, which a specialized company issued in 2002, with loan funding.
The general conclusion of the PRFM program operation was a positive impact on
employment and incomes, the program meeting its overall operability target for the
outstanding cases of collective dismissals, and not just for them.

LABOR SAFETY

The `Labor Safety' objective was aimed at developing the evaluation capacity on work
conditions, and the information-documentation capacity, by means of better specific and computer
equipment in order to improve effectiveness in preventing accidents at work and avoid
professional diseases.
        The following domains were identified, for which Project funds were to be directed to:
        IT
        Information-documentation
        Work-equipment safety
        Evaluation of work conditions

INTRODUCING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT)

        The Project supported from the beginning the IT-based institutional development in all
domains it covered.
        The Project's stipulations for IT-based activities equally regarded the immediate `ongoing'
needs apt to support the effective progress of the reform development and implementation process
itself, and the institutional building perspective. In this second line, integrated IT systems were
designed and achieved, which are capable to assist newly established institutions to operate on a
fully IT-equipped basis.
        The IT systems were completed at the time and to the extent allowed by the progress
attained in the implementation of the reforms in various fields, and by the way the phasing
of reforms met the Project's timing requirements (loan deadline for closing the financial
operations was September 30, 2003).




                                                - 27 -

        The Project allowed the completion of the NAE integrated IT system in amount of
$5.51m, and the execution of over 50% of the NHP integrated IT system (the $8.56m original
contract cost will be completed in 2004, under the ongoing Social Sector Development Project).

PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT

Project Management
A fixed-structure team assumed the management of the Project's implementation over the whole
period, which constituted a valuable continuity element in the shifting circumstances that
distinguished the period.
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) worked closely with the technical implementation units that
were appointed in the specialized departments of the ministry and, later on, in the newly
established institutions - the National Council for Vocational Training of Adult Persons, National
Employment Agency, and the National House for Pensions and Other Social Security Benefits - as
well as the specialized economic departments with these institutions.
PCU provided assistance for the Project's technical implementation teams, on acquisition
procedures, annual budget drafting, loan funding management, and the relations with the World
Bank and Ministry of Public Finance (MPF).
The Project implementation management had to provide solutions to the specific issues of a
multiple-source funding and complex-structure project with wide territorial dispersion in
objectives and the issues covered.
Thus:

       In funding management  four funding sources were covered: the loan itself, the local
budgets with state MOLSP-budget allocations, the social security budget, and the unemployment
fund budget. These funds were under MOLSP administration  in the first part of the
implementation period; the management of the specific budgets was taken over by NAE and NHP
after the establishing thereof.
    Managing these budgets involved keeping separate accounting records, the necessity of three
    credit ordonnateurs for fund approval, and three financial control mechanisms, in preventive
    and post-allocation phase.
       In institutional building diversity, and territorial coverage  Project management had to
face the impossibility of packaging the procurement of equipment and services, which widely
expanded the volume thereof.
    The tables below show this aspect in the structure of acquisitions  327 local or international
    acquisition procedures were conducted, with a $12.6m worth of assets purchased (average
    acquisition contract was $38,532), as compared with 8 international competitive bidding
    actions covering assets of $11.3m worth.

              STRUCTURE OF ACQUISITION OF ASSETS AND SERVICES
                              BY PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES

          Procedure                 Number of acquisitions                   USD Worth
                                                                       (Amounts paid by loan
                                                                             closing date)



                                                  - 28 -

Local shopping                                 193                          2,591,554
International shopping                         134                          10,022,758
International competitive                       8                           11,299,000
bidding
TOTAL                                          335                          23,913,312

              STRUCTURE OF ACQUISITION OF CONSULTING SERVICES
                             BY PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES

         Procedure                  Number of acquisitions                 USD Worth
                                                                    (Amounts paid by loan
                                                                           closing date)
Quality and Cost Based                         22                           9,728,998
Selection
Individual Consultant                           5                            118,414
TOTAL                                          27                           9,857,412

Another 21 staff information/documenting and training (study visits, seminars and
conferences) actions are added thereto, with 108 (MOLSP, NAE and NHP) specialists
attending, and amounting to $346,627.

In parallel to the PCU actions, fund transfers were operated for the monthly payment of the 1,413
contracts of pro-active measures that the National Employment Agency conducted, amounting
to $9,578,062.

Despite the diverse nature of the acquisitions and the multitude of operations conducted, there
were no complaints to be investigated by the World Bank, nor the preventive control bodies,
with respect to the selection procedures for assets and services suppliers, or consultants.

PROJECT COSTS  FUNDS UTILIZATION

Project costs were estimated in 1994, and were based on the institutional building structure that
was expected to appear following the reforms meant to be implemented in the main project areas,
i.e. work force, social security and social assistance. These costs were estimated on account of
prices expected for the acquisition of assets and services.
The Project's overall negotiated worth was $96.7m, with a five years' implementation period.
Project funding was expected to run as follows:

$55.4 million                  IBRD Loan
$38.5 million                  local costs
$2.8 million                   bilateral non-reimbursable co-funding

An analysis of the impact of the modifications operated, and the extent to which certain estimates
in acquisition prices for assets and services were certified by market evolutions reveals savings
that helped reduce the loan costs from $55.4m to $49.7m, with corresponding local-costs


                                                - 29 -

reduction. Little data is available regarding the financial execution of the co-funding sources, the
only certain thing to be said being the compliance with the expected objectives.

The amounts used by the end of Project implementation period were: $43.68m (from the Loan)
and ROL 309.20bn (from local funding). The difference to the initial costs of $49.7m represents
costs of the NHP integrated IT system, which were transferred to the Social Sector Development
Project.

        87.9% IS THE RESULTING UTILIZATION DEGREE OF LOAN FUNDS against
the last figure of loan costs, with Project objectives that were met according to the requirements
of the institutional building and pro-active measures programs.
        Loan fund utilization structure by destination is displayed in the adjoining chart, whereby
one can note that 74.67% of the funds were used for the acquisition of assets and services and for
funding pro-active measures programs.

        The loan funds utilization rate was imposed by the speed whereby the legal basis of
reforms had been provided, and the institutions established that were expected to implement the
envisaged reforms. The financial operations, payments to the Special Account, the (direct)
payments from Project Account, the withdrawals for supplying the Special Account have all been
audited and endorsed through preventive audit within the ministry and in the institutions charged
with the management of local budgets, on an annual basis. The Court of Audit carried the annual
post-audit, as well.

Meanwhile, specialized audit companies audited the financial operations according to the Loan
Agreement stipulations, on an annual basis. The World Bank agreed to all these audit companies,
the audit Report being submitted to the Bank. None of the audit levels above ever signaled any
financial irregularities.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team consisted of:

Richard Florescu, Social Protection Coordinator & Task Team Leader, ECSHD
John Innes, Senior Economist, ECSHD
David Fretwell, Lead Employment and Education Specialist, ECSHD,
Camelia Totezan, Program Assistant, ECCU5
Jennifer Manghinang, Program Assistant, ECSHD




                                                 - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Participants in the active labor market         80,000 (estimated initially in 1997)
measures under the Labor Redeployment           86,800 (enrolled by June 2003)            92,223 (enrolled by Sept 30, 2003)
Program, collectively displaced as a result of
industrial restructuring (unit = workers).
Unit costs of delivering proactive labor market US$ 400 (estimated initially in 1997)
services (unit = participant average cost).     US$ 106 (in June 2003                     US$ 104 (at Sept 30, 2003)
Six regional adult training centers (RATCs)     6 (estimated initially in 1995)
established and operating as planned ( unit = 5 (revised in June 2003)                    5 (completed by Sept 30, 2003)
# of RATCs established).
National Adult Training Board (NTB)             1 (initially estimated in 1995)
established and operating effectively (unit =   1 (fully functioning in June 2003)        1 (fully functional at the ICR date)
NTB established).
Job placement rates of participants in the (i)  (i) 40% (estimated initially in 1997)     (i) 38.5% (at Sept 30, 2003)
inst. training and (ii) on the job training     (ii) 45% (estimated initially in 1997)    (ii) 69.8% (at Sept 30, 2003)
programs (unit = % of participants placed in
employment following training).
Poverty reduction among elderly as result of    23.4% in 2000                             21.7% in 2003
social insurance reform as documented by
annual household surveys (unit = % of poor
who are pensioners).
Poverty reduction among general population      35.9% in 2000
as result of the social assistance reform as    28.9% in 2002                             25.1% in 2003
documented by household survey and
poverty assessments(unit = % of total
population - approx 22.5 mil.).
Severe poverty reduction among general          13.8% in 2000                             8.6% in 2003
population as result of the social assistance   10.9% in 2002
reform as documented by household survey
and poverty assessments(unit = % of total
population - approx 22.5 mil.).


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Total registered unemployment rate (1997 vs. 11.3%                                        7.6%
2003)
Total number of unemployed enrolled in          n.a. previously                           23,961 with 66% placement rate
training and retraining programs (1997 vs
2003) - Gov and Bank financed
Total expenditures for social assistance        1.6%                                      2.8%
as share of the GDP (1996 vs. 2002)
Applications approved for social assistance     145,112                                   619,000
cash benefits (income support benefit/1998
vs MIG/2003).
Beneficiaries receiving supplementary           893,905                                   1,003,400
benefits for families with more children.
(1997 year of introduction vs. 2002).
Number of Career Counseling and offices         n.a. previously                           774 within the MOLSP, MOE and MOY
Number of occupational profiles developed       n.a. previously                           450
Career Newspapers                               n.a. previously                           10 issues of 1,500, 000 copies each
Career Counseling Video Tapes                   n.a. previously                           12 programs in 1280 copies each
Number of future beneficiaries of early         1,300,000                                 397,000
retirement as a result of the enrollment in
special work groups.
Business incubators                             n.a. previously                           6




                                                                    - 31 -

1End of project




                   - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Monitoring and Policy Analysis                               3.80             1.20            31.5
Automation                                                  21.20           13.58             64.1
Project Management                                           1.40             0.45            32.1
Employment Services                                         18.70           10.78             57.6
Career Information and Counseling                            6.20             3.44            55.5
1.2 Adult Training                                          21.10             6.80            32.3
Labor Redeployment Program                                                  13.39
Social Insurance Reform                                      3.80             5.05           144.7
Social Assistance Reform                                     5.30             4.62            87.1

Total Baseline Cost                                         81.50           59.31
 Physical Contingencies                                      7.50
 Price Contingencies                                         6.20
                        Total Project Costs                 95.20           59.31
                  Total Financing Required                  95.20           59.31


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category          ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                                            0.00         0.00          11.00        11.00
                                   ()              (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          31.60             0.00         3.60          0.00         35.20
                                 (26.10)           (0.00)      (2.40)          (0.00)       (28.50)
3. Services                                                     19.30          2.80         22.10
                                   ()                ()        (19.30)         (0.00)       (19.30)
4. Incremental Op. Costs                                         7.60          19.30        26.90
                                   ()                ()        (7.60)          (0.00)       (7.60)
5. Labor Redeployment                                                                        0.00
                                   ()                ()            ()            ()         (0.00)
    Total                         31.60             0.00        30.50          33.10        95.20
                                 (26.10)           (0.00)      (29.30)         (0.00)       (55.40)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category          ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                                                                       5.97         5.97
                                   ()                ()            ()           ()         (0.00)
2. Goods                          13.67                        13.70                       27.37
                                 (11.30)             ()       (11.62)           ()         (22.92)

                                                - 33 -

  3. Services                                                                   11.42             2.80             14.22
                                              ()                ()              (9.00)              ()             (9.00)
  4. Incremental Op. Costs                                                       0.16                              0.16
                                              ()                ()              (0.16)              ()             (0.16)
  5. Labor Redeployment                                                         11.59                              11.59
                                              ()                ()             (11.59)              ()            (11.59)
       Total                                13.67              0.00             36.87             8.77             59.31
                                           (11.30)            (0.00)           (32.37)           (0.00)           (43.67)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
      staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
      (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank          Govt.       CoF.         Bank        Govt.        CoF.      Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Monitoring Policy Analysis     3.90          0.50                     0.65         0.55                  16.7     110.0
Automation                    16.70          7.80                     10.62        2.96                  63.6     37.9
Project Management             1.40          0.10                     0.35         0.10                  25.0     100.0
Employment Services            3.70          17.60       1.20         9.30         1.48        1.20     251.4      8.4      100.0
Career Information and         4.70          2.20        0.70         2.97         0.47        0.70      63.2     21.4      100.0
Counseling
Adult Training                18.00          5.60        0.90         2.67         4.13        0.90      14.8     73.8      100.0
Labor Redeployment                                                    9.58         3.81
Program
Social Insurance Reform        3.90          0.20                     4.73         0.32                 121.3     160.0
Social Assistance Reform       3.10          3.00                     2.80         1.82                  90.3     60.7
TOTAL                         55.40          37.00       2.80         43.67       15.64        2.80      78.8     42.3      100.0




                                                           - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At the time of appraisal no cost benefit analysis was conducted due to the lack of data needed for this
purpose. However, during the project implementation the MOLSP financed out of the loan funds, a Net
Impact Evaluation Study on the Labor Redeployment Program that assessed the client satisfaction and the
cost effectiveness of the various active labor market measures, implemented under the project, as described
in detail in the chapter 4.2 of the current ICR.

Also, the Poverty Assessment for Romania conducted by the Bank in 2003, using the households and labor
market surveys data as well as the administrative data provided by the MOLSP and other Government
agencies, revealed a steady decline in both general and severe poverty rates in the last three years. Thus the
general poverty rate declined from 35.9% in 2000 to 25.1% in 2003, while the severe poverty rate
declined from 13.8% in 2000 to 8.6% in 2003. Much of this decline can be attributed to the successful
implementation of the Minimum Income Guarantee benefits for which the Government allocated constantly
almost 0.4% of the GDP per year, besides the significant positive impact of the overall economic growth
rate (4.5% on average) that Romania registered in the last three years.




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/1992

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1993 Appr.
              03/1994 P Appr.
              09/1994 Negot.

 Supervision

              02/18/1996                4    AUTOMATION (1); TASK             S               S
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             EMPLOYMENT/TRNG. (1);
                                             SOCIAL PROTECTION (1)
              11/15/1996                3    INFORMATION TECH. (1);           U               U
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              04/25/1997                3    INFORMATION TECH. (1);           U               U
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              04/24/1998                5    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             RESIDENT PROJ. OFFICER
                                             (1);
                                             EMPLOYMENT/TRAINING
                                             (1); INFORMATION
                                             TECHNOLOGY (1); PENSIONS
                                             ECONOMICS (1)
              11/12/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EMPLOYMENT SERVICES SP
                                             (1); CAREER COUNSELING
                                             CONS (1); IT CONSULTANT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/16/1999                4    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             IT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             EMPLOYMENT SRVICES SPE
                                             (1)
              04/14/2000                6    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PR.EMPL.SERVICES SPEC.
                                             (1); PR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); IT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/04/2000                2    EMPLOYOMENT SERV. SPEC           S               S
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              02/18/2002                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S



                                              - 36 -

                                           LABOR MARKET SPEC (1);
                                           PENSIONS (1); PENSOINS (1);
                                           PROGRAM TEAM LEADER (1)
               02/18/2002              5   TTL - SOCIAL ASSIST. (1);           S    S
                                           PTL - POVERTY (1);
                                           EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (1);
                                           PENSIONS REFORM (1); IT (1)
               11/07/1997              4   TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT            U    U
                                           OFFICER (1); EMPLOYMENT
                                           (1); IT (1)
               10/01/1999              4   TTL (1); EMPLOYMENT (1);            S    S
                                           IT (1); PTL (1)
               11/04/2000              6   TTL (1); EMPLOYMENT (1);            S    S
                                           SOCIAL ASSISTANCE (1); IT
                                           (1); PENSIONS (1);PTL (1)
               09/01/2001              4   TTL (1); EMPLOYMENT (1);            S    S
                                           PENSIONS (1); PTL (1)
               06/13/2003              5   PTL - SOC ASSISTANCE (1);           S    S
                                           TM-MICRO CREDIT (1);
                                           EMPLOY SPEC-LABOR MKT
                                           (1); L.ECON-PENSION
                                           REFORM (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           (1)

 ICR
               11/24/2003             3     PTL (1), TTL (1), IT (1);          S    S
                                            PENSIONS (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                 994
  Supervision                                                           710
  ICR                                                                    30
  Total                                                                 740




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Impact of Active Labor Market Programs, Abt Associates Inc. 2002.
Public Policies for Career Development, Case Studies and Emerging Issues ofr Designing Career
Information and Guidance Systems in Developing and Transition Econimies, A.G.Watts, David H.
Fretwell, World Bank, 2004.
Romania Poverty Assessment, World Bank, 2003.
Borrower's Report (full version),




                                               - 40 -

- 41 -

