Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3849 RO
Loan Agreement
(Employment and Social Protection Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 23, 1995
 LOAN NUMBER 3849 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1995, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of finance (the 
Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to two 
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($2,800,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinanciers 
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)
"MOLSP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, or 
any successor thereof;
(b)
"Project Operating Manual" means the Project Operating Manual of the 
Borrower dated September 23, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Borrower's Social Safety Net Strategy" means the Borrower's strategy for 
the development of its social safety net, including its employment and social 
protection programs, as set forth in the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated November 
26, 1993;
(e)
"Social Assistance White Paper" means the "White Paper - The Social 
Assistance System of Romania - Description, Assessment and Options for Reform" issued 
in July 1993 by MOLSP; and
(f)
"Social Insurance White Paper" means "The White Paper on Social 
Insurances and Pensions Reform" issued in December 1993 by MOLSP.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty-five million four
hundred thousand dollars ($55,400,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Page  3
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal  to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, economic, employment development and social protection 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Page  4
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.  
Section 4.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:
Page  5
(a)
Cofinanciers Agreements, providing for loans and grants in an aggregate 
amount equivalent to one million two hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000), shall have 
failed to become effective by October 31, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may 
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
(b)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof; and
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of Cofinanciers 
Agreements providing for loans and grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to one 
million six hundred thousand dollars ($1,600,000) have been fulfilled, other than 
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(b)
that the Borrower has selected consultants to assist the Project 
Coordination Unit, referred to in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, in the carrying out of its activities under the Project.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Page  6
Romania
Telex:
11239
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Ion Gorita
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Rachel Lomax
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Goods, consultants'             36,700,000     100% of foreign
    services and                                   expenditures,
    training other than                            100% of local
    under Part C of the                            expenditures
    Project                                        (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 80%
(2) Goods, consultants'              3,400,000     of local expen-
    services and                                   ditures for
    training under                                 other items
    Part C (1) of the                              procured locally
    Project                                        for goods, and
                                                   100% for
Page  7
(3) Goods, consultants'              3,000,000     consultants'
    services and                                   services and
    training under                                 training
    Part C (2)
    of the Project
(4) Incremental                      7,500,000      100%
    operating costs
(5) Unallocated                      4,800,000
                                    __________
    TOTAL                           55,400,000
                                    ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs of office and 
other materials and supplies utilized in the carrying out of the Project by the 
Borrower, departments and agencies responsible therefor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) expenditures under Category (2) except after a law on social insurance 
which, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Social Insurance White 
Paper, provides for a viable and efficient social insurance system designed to sustain 
and advance the objectives of the Project shall have been enacted, and all 
arrangements for implementing the provisions of said law shall have been completed; 
and (c) expenditures under Category (3) except after a law on social assistance which, 
in accordance with the principles set forth in the Social Assistance White Paper, 
provides for a viable and efficient social assistance system designed to sustain and 
advance the objectives of the Project shall have been enacted, and all arrangements 
for implementing the provisions of said law shall have been completed.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and services 
not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to alleviate unemployment and poverty, improve 
efficiency and affordability of employment and social protection services, and promote 
economic competitiveness and labor productivity, all in accordance with
the Borrower's Social Safety Net Strategy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.
Carrying out of programs to improve management, planning, execution, monitoring 
and evaluation, and cost effectiveness of employment and social assistance programs, 
including: (a) to strengthen the capability of MOLSP to ensure efficient coordination 
of Project execution; (b) to upgrade the monitoring and policy analysis functions of 
MOLSP to facilitate suitable monitoring and evaluation of employment and social 
assistance programs and the cost effectiveness thereof; and (c) to expand the 
automation of labor and social assistance and insurance offices to support the proper 
administration of the programs provided under the Project.
Page  8
2.
The provision and utilization in the carrying out of this Part A of the Project 
of technical assistance, staff, staff training, computers and computer programs, 
equipment and materials and works to rehabilitate office facilities.
Part B:
1.
Carrying out of programs to improve the administration of employment services 
and adult training programs, including: (a) to upgrade the organization and delivery 
in labor offices of regular employment services and of industrial adjustment services 
targeted to large-scale layoffs; (b) to strengthen career information and counseling 
in labor offices and schools; and (c) to improve the flexibility and responsiveness of 
training programs to the needs of the private sector so as to reorient the skills of 
employed and unemployed workers to those required in a market economy.
2.
The provision and utilization in the carrying out of this Part B of the Project 
of technical assistance, staff, staff and adult training, enterprise training 
programs, general education and entrepreneurship training, computers and computer 
programs, equipment and materials, vehicles and works to rehabilitate labor offices 
and training programs facilities.
Part C:
Carrying out of programs to improve the administration of the social protection 
system and the financial viability thereof, including: (1) to upgrade the organization 
of the social insurance system to unify the various pension funds thereunder and 
improve its financial management, and contribution records and benefits disbursement 
systems; and (2) to develop and implement an integrated social assistance system of 
cash benefits, improve the organization of its services delivery and target its 
benefits to those most vulnerable to poverty, including the provision and utilization 
in the carrying out of this Part C of the Project of technical assistance, staff, 
staff training, computers and computer programs and equipment and materials.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due  
                       (expressed in dollars)*
 
November 1, 2000                                 1,065,000
May 1, 2001                                      1,105,000
November 1, 2001                                 1,140,000
May 1, 2002                                      1,185,000
November 1, 2002                                 1,225,000
May 1, 2003                                      1,270,000
November 1, 2003                                 1,315,000
May 1, 2004                                      1,360,000
November 1, 2004                                 1,410,000
May 1, 2005                                      1,460,000
November 1, 2005                                 1,510,000
May 1, 2006                                      1,565,000
November 1, 2006                                 1,620,000
May 1, 2007                                      1,675,000
November 1, 2007                                 1,735,000
May 1, 2008                                      1,795,000
November 1, 2008                                 1,860,000
May 1, 2009                                      1,925,000
November 1, 2009                                 1,995,000
May 1, 2010                                      2,065,000
November 1, 2010                                 2,140,000
May 1, 2011                                      2,215,000
November 1, 2011                                 2,290,000
May 1, 2012                                      2,375,000
November 1, 2012                                 2,460,000
May 1, 2013                                      2,545,000
November 1, 2013                                 2,635,000
May 1, 2014                                      2,730,000
November 1, 2014                                 2,825,000
Page  9
May 1, 2015                                      2,905,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                       The interest rate (expressed
                                       as a percentage per annum)
                                       applicable to the Loan
                                       on the day of prepayment
                                       multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
    maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original validity period, such 
period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.  The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents  or 
the request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of 
extension. Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review 
in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
Page  10
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
from at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Contracts for goods which the Bank agrees are of proprietary nature, the timely 
supply thereof is critical for efficient Project execution, or need to be compatible 
with other installed equipment, may be awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, and contracts awarded in accordance with Part C.3 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said  
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
Page  11
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard 
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to 
prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, 
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank, or (d) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
Overall responsibility for the carrying out of the Project shall be assigned by 
the Borrower to MOLSP.
2.
For the purpose of facilitating the efficient carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, with membership, staff and other resources and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank (i) a Technical Coordinating Committee to be 
responsible for the general coordination and supervision of Project execution, (ii) a 
Project Coordination Unit to assist the Technical Coordinating Committee referred to 
in subparagraph (a) (i) hereof in the carrying out of its responsibilities, (iii) a 
National Training Board acting through County Training Boards in which the private 
sector will have substantial control over the determination of training courses 
carried out in Part B.1 (c) of the Project, (iv) a Working Team to be responsible, 
under the overall guidance of the National Training Board referred to in subparagraph 
(a) (iii) hereof, for the development and implementation of special employment 
services targeted to large scale layoffs under Part B.1 (a) of the Project, (v) a 
Career Information and Counseling Advisory Group to be responsible for the provision 
of policy guidance in the carrying out Part B.1 (b) of the Project, (vi) a Career 
Information and Counseling Working Group to be responsible, under the overall guidance 
of the Career Information and Counseling Advisory Group referred to in subparagraph 
(a) (v) hereof, for the carrying out of Part B.1 (b) of the Project, (vii) Regional 
Adult Training Centers to participate in providing the training under Part B.1 (c) of 
the Project, and (viii) a Monitoring and Evaluation Group to be responsible for the 
monitoring and evaluation activities under Part A.1 (b) of the Project; and
(b)
maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, between MOLSP and (i) 
the Borrower's Ministry of Education to ensure effective cooperation in the carrying 
out of Part B.1 (b) of the Project, and (ii) the offices of the local mayors and the 
local education authorities to ensure effective cooperation in the carrying out of 
Part C.2 of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that, without limitation on the provisions of 
this Schedule (i) the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements 
and other details set forth in Section IV of the Project Operating
Manual, and (ii) all essential staff required for the carrying out of the Project and 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank shall be assigned to the Project by June 30, 
1995; (b) employ consultants, with qualifications and terms of reference and on the 
basis of time-schedules satisfactory to the Bank, in order to assist in the carrying 
out of the Project; and (c) ensure that the training activities under the Project 
shall be carried out in accordance with programs, including time-schedules for the 
implementation thereof and criteria for the selection of
candidates thereunder, satisfactory to the Bank, including, without limitation, 
overseas training under Parts A.2, B.2 and C.2 of the Project shall be limited to the 
training of staff who subsequently will be responsible for providing local training to 
other staff.
4.
In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project in accordance with the 
Page  12
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement and the requirements set forth in the 
Project Operating Manual, the Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to the Bank: (a) by March 31 of each year, a 
report on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Borrower's 
Social Safety Net Strategy as of December 31 of the preceding year, as measured on the 
basis of indicators agreed with the Bank, and setting out the actions recommended for 
the efficient carrying out of the Project during the period following such reports; 
and (b) on or about June 30, 1997, a report integrating all available data on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the actions recommended for the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof. Thereafter, the Borrower shall take all measures required on its part to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof in accordance with the recommendations of the said report and the Bank's 
comments thereon.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  13
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documentsand other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
