Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13108-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
LAM TAKHONG PUMP STORAGE PROJECT
APRIL 5, 1995
Infrastructure Operations
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



Currency Equivalents
(As of December 1994)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1 = B 25.0
BI = US$0.04
Government and EGAT Fiscal Year
October I to September 30
Weights and Measures
bpd            -           barrels per day
ha             -           hectare
kV             -           kilovolt (1,000 volts)
MVA            -           megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kW             -           kilowatt (1,000 watts)
km             -           kilometer
MW             -           megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh            -           kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
Gwh            -           gigawatt-hour (I million kilowatt-hours)
MCM            -           million cubic meters
MMt            -           million metric tonnes
tcf            -           trillion cubic feet
tpa            -           tons per annum
toe            -           ton of oil equivalent
MMtoe          -           million tons of oil equivalent
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DEDP           -           Department of Energy Development and Promotion
DEQP           -           Department of Environmental Quality Promotion
DPC            -           Department of Pollution Control
ECCT           -           Energy Conservation Center of Thailand
EGAT           -           Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EGCO           -           Electricity Generating Company
EIA            -           Environmental Impact Assessment
EMDP           -           Environmental Mitigation and Development Plan
ERR            -           Economic Rate of Return
FPO            -           Fiscal Policy Office
GSE            -           Good State Enterprise
IPPs           -           Independent Power Producers
MEA            -           Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF            -           Ministry of Finance
MOSTE          -           Ministry of Science, Technology and the Environment
NEA            -           National Energy Administration
NEB            -           National Environmental Board
NEPC           -           National Energy Policy Council
NEPO           -           National Energy Policy Office
NESDB          -           National Economic and Social Development Board
NGOs           -           Non-Governmental Organizations
OEPP           -           Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
PEA            -           Provincial Electricity Authority
PDP            -           Power Development Plan
PTT            -           Petroleum Authority of Thailand
ROR            -           Rate of Return on Fixed Assets
VAT            -           Value Added Tax



-'-
Thailand
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower              :           Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT).
Guarantor             :          Kingdom of Thailand.
Implementing Agency               EGAT.
Beneficiary           :           Not applicable.
Poverty               :           Not applicable.
Amount                :           US$100 million equivalent.
Terms                 :          Repayable over 17 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee        :          0.75% on undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms       :           Not applicable.
Financing Plan                   The financing plan for the project is shown in para. 4.22.
Net Present Value                 US$86 million equivalent, at 10% discount rate (equalizing
discount rate compared to the next best alternative - 16%).
Map                   :           IBRD No. 26284.






-ii-
Thailand
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ............................................
I.    The Ener2e Sector
A. Overview .................................................1
B. Resource Endowment ......................................... 1
C. Energy Consumption .3
D. Organization and Planning  ...................................... 3
E. Environment ............................................... 4
F. Energy Pricing  ............................................. 5
G. Energy Conservation  ......................................... 6
H. Privatization in the Power Sector .................................. 7
I. Energy Sector Issues and Strategy  ................................. 9
11.    The Power Subsector
A. The Power Market ...................................... 1
B. Generation and Transmission Facilities .1.............................  1
C. Power Development Plan .....................................   12
D. Past Bank Experience and Sector Strategy  .      ....................... 14
III.   The Borrower
A. Organization and Management .................................   17
B. Staffing and Training  ........................................ 19
C. Operational Performance .................................. 20
D. Financial Management .................................. 21
IV.   The Project
A. Objectives and Description .............................. ...  24
B. Implementation  .................................  29
C. Cost Estimates  .................................  31
D. Financing Plan  .................................  32
E. Procurement  ..................................  32
F. Disbursements ..................................                                      34
V.    Enviromnental AsDects
A. Environmental Impact Evaluation and Approval .......           ................. 35
B. Environmental Impact and Impact Mitigation .........          ................. 35
C. Rehabilitation ........................................ 38
D. Transmission Lines  .......................................   41
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission to Thailand in July 1994, comprising Darayes Mehta
(Principal Power Engineer), Rebecca Sekse (Financial Analyst), Barry Trembath (Senior Power Engineer) and
Maninder Gill (Resettlement Specialist). Donald Graybill acted as the Environmental Expert for the project. Peer
reviewers were Ramon Lopez-Rivera (Consultant, Hydropower), Jamil Sopher (Principal Financial Analyst) and
Olivier Koenig (Senior Economist). The project was cleared by Mr. Callisto E. Madavo, Director, EAI and Mr.
Vineet Nayyar, Chief, EAlIN.



-iii-
VI.    Financial Analysis
A. Past Performance  . ..........................................  43
B. Present Financial Position .             ..................................... 44
C. Financial Outlook   .         .........................................  46
D. Lignite Mine Operations   .             .....................................  48
E. Tariff Levels and Structure . ..................................... 49
F. Financing Plan   ............................................  50
VII.   Project Justification
A. Economic Analysis .           .........................................  52
B. Risks ............................................... 53
VIII. Agreements Reached and Recommendation
A. Agreements  ..............................................   55
B. Recommendation ............................................ 56
Annexes
1.      Highlights of EGAT, MEA  and PEA  Operations  .........................  57
2.      Demand-Side Management Program   .................................  58
3.      Power Subsector Privatization Plan  ..........                      ........................  60
4.      Demand Forecast .............................................   62
5.      EGAT's Existing Generating Capacity  ................................  63
6.      EGAT's Existing Transmission and Substation Facilities .....................  64
7.      Power Development Plan  .              .......................................  65
8.      Balance of System  Load Requirement and Capabilities  ...................... 67
9.      Projected Energy Balance.........    I .......                                                               68
10.    Rationalization of Bulk Supply Tariff to MEA  and PEA   .....................  69
11.    Project Cost Estimate   .         .........................................  71
12.    Key Dates Schedule for Procurement and Construction ...................... 73
13.    Contract Packages   ............................................  75
14.  Disbursement Schedule .......................................... 77
15.    Environmental Plan and Budget .                  ...................................  78
16.    EGAT's Past Financial Performance  .................................  79
17.    EGAT's Projected Financial Performance  ..............................  82
18.    EGAT Tariff Rates ............................................  88
19.    EGAT's Investment Program  .                .....................................  89
20.  Fuel Price for Optimization ........................................ 90
21.    Rate of Return on EGAT Power Development Plan ........................  92
22.    Capital Cost ..............................................                                                   93
23.    Project's Economic Rate of Return  ..........                        ........................  94
24.  Documents in Project File . ....................................... 95
Charts
1.      EGAT's Organization Chart  .               .....................................  96
2.      EGAT Organization for Design of Lam  Takhong  ......................... 97
3.      EGAT Organization for Construction of Lam  Takhong ...................... 98
4.      Organization for Environmental Mitigation and Rehabilitation   ................. 99
5.  Implementation Schedule . ....................................... 100
Map
IBRD No. 26284



Chapter I
The Energy Sector
A. Overview
1.1        The social and economic transformation in Thailand over the past 25 years has resulted in
rapid growth in energy consumption. Most of this growth was initially met by energy imports: at the
time of the 1979/80 oil crisis, Thailand's dependence on imported oil was in excess of 90% of total
primary commercial energy. In the ensuing years, however, efforts made by the Thai Government to
promote the development of indigenous energy resources have had a visible impact on the pattern of
commercial energy consumption.
1.2       In 1993, the total supply of commercial energy in Thailand of about 33 million tons of oil
equivalent (toe) increased two and a half times over 1983 levels, and was growing at an average rate of
11% per year. Of the total amount, 62% was supplied by petroleum, 21% by natural gas, 13% by
lignite, 3% by hydro power and 1 % by coal. In addition, Thailand consumed about 10 million toe of
renewable energy in 1991, mainly in the form of fuel wood which remained the predominant fuel in
rural households. Despite the country's impressive economic growth (of 8% per year for the last six
years), per capita commercial energy consumption has been fairly modest and comparable to that of a
low-income developing country. The modest consumption pattern is due to the large rural population
and the relatively high price of commercial energy (compared with rural income levels), which places
commercial energy beyond the reach of the lower income group. The outlook is, therefore, for rapid
growth in commercial energy consumption as the economy continues expanding.
B. Resource Endowment
1.3        Thailand has a diversified energy resource base, consisting of bio-mass, petroleum (oil and
natural gas), lignite, hydropower, and geothermal energy, the latter being still at an exploratory stage in
the northern region. However, Thailand's indigenous resources are limited in comparison to its needs,
and the country's energy imports will increase over the years.
Oil and Gas
1.4        Given the geological features of the country's hydrocarbon basins, crude oil is not
expected to be a major contributor to Thailand's resource base. At the end of 1993, there were about
245 million barrels of proven and probable oil reserves. Of these, about 177 million barrels are
condensate, which would have to be produced in association with offshore gas, and about 68 million
barrels are crude oil. There are additional oil reserves of about 440 million barrels. Production is
currently limited to Phet crude from the Sirikit oil field, producing about 22,000 barrels per day (bpd)
in 1993. An additional 26,000 bpd of condensate was produced in association with gas from offshore
fields in the Gulf of Thailand. To meet the oil demand, Thailand imported 163,000 bpd of finished
petroleum products and 321,000 bpd of crude oil for processing in its three local refineries in 1993.



-2-
1.5        The country's natural gas resources are limited and Thailand would not be able to produce
sufficient gas to meet the demand over the next 30 years. Natural gas has been discovered mostly by
companies looking for oil. At the end of 1993, the remaining proven and probable reserves were about
6.5 trillion cubic feet. Gas production in 1993 was 930 million cubic feet per day (mmcfd), of which
880 mmcfd were produced from the offshore fields. Considering the country's limited supply, Thailand
would be looking towards importing piped gas from neighboring countries (potentially from Malaysia,
Myanmar and, recently, Viet Nam), or importing from international markets in the form of LNG.
Negotiations are well on their way for import of piped gas from Myannar.
Lignite
1.6        Thailand's coal resources are all relatively low grade, of the variety generally categorized
as lignite. Geological lignite reserves amount to a total of 2.1 billion tons, i.e., 3.7 billion barrels of
oil equivalent, 69% of which is in the Mae Moh basin in northern Thailand which has been developed
by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT). Economically minable reserves are
estimated at 1,330 million tons (MMt), of which 1,152 MMt are located in Mae Moh. The output at
Mae Moh, is currently at a level of about 7 million tpa. Earlier plans to expand Mae Moh mining to a
level of 31 million tpa by 1998 (enough to support power generation of 4,700 MW), have had to be
severely curtailed due to geotechnical and environmental problems. While potential for additional
lignite discoveries is good - recent nation-wide exploration by EGAT has resulted in a number of
discoveries, including that in 1987 of a major deposit at Saba Yoi in southern Thailand with potential
reserves in excess of 200 MMt - its commercial exploitation is in doubt due to political reasons. With
uncertainties surrounding the development of the country's lignite resources it would be necessary to
import coal and establish coal-fired generation by as early as 2000. Recently, prospects have emerged
for development of lignite-fired power in Laos, which could be exported to Thailand.
Hydropower
1.7        Thailand's hydropower potential, excluding that of its two main international rivers -- the
Mekong and the Salween -- is estimated at 11,700 MW. Of this, about 2,400 MW, with an annual
generation capability of 4,500 GWh, have already been harnessed by EGAT. Increasing opposition
from the public and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to the construction of dams would make
development of hydropower extremely difficult, and Thailand cannot look forward to any significant
development of this renewable energy resource. On the other hand, development of pump storage
projects which does not involve damming of rivers and entails minimum ecological and social impacts
would be pursued whenever it is economically viable compared to the next best option of peaking
internal combustion turbines.
1.8        The hydropower potential of rivers within Thailand is dwarfed by that of rivers forming
the Thai frontier with Laos and Burma. The development of possible sites on the main rivers would
require agreement between the riparian powers, including in particular acceptable terms for Thailand to
use a major part of the energy generated since the other countries are unlikely to be in a position to
absorb the energy provided by such projects. Negotiations have recently been completed for import of
hydropower from Laos which would be produced jointly by international private organizations and the
Lao Government.



-3-
Bio-mass
1.9        The process of modernization occurring in rural Thailand notwithstanding, use of
traditional fuels has remained predominant in rural areas. About two-thirds of the reliance on bio-mass
consists of charcoal and firewood use by rural households (at the rate of about 10 MMtoe/year), and
consequently forests near inhabited areas have been heavily over-cut. The remaining third of bio-mass
supply consists of bagasse and paddy husks used as fuel in the sugar and rice industries. Thailand
suffers from an increasing scarcity of wood fuels and other wood products, particularly in the northeast.
In 1993, the Government launched a nationwide reforestation campaign that would involve the public
and the private sectors and the rural population.
C. Energy Consumption
1.10       Consumption of final commercial energy in the economy in 1993 is accounted for by the
following sectors: (a) transport for 39%; (b) industrial for 31 %; (c) residential and commercial (R&C)
for 24%; and (d) other for 6%. Energy consumption during 1986-93 grew at an annual average of
8.8% with transport growing at an annual average of about 11.8%, followed by industry at 11.4%,
agriculture at 5.4%, and the R&C sectors at 2.9%. The high consumption of the transport sector is
basically due to inadequate mass transport systems and severe traffic congestion in the metropolis.
Within the industrial sector, the manufacturing subsector, particularly food and beverage, accounted for
the bulk of energy consumption growth. Residential energy use represents about 77 % of the total R&C
sector of which 90% is consumed by the urban population. Although the rate of rural electrification is
high, woodfuel (mostly wood and charcoal) continues to be the main cooking fuel in the countryside.
1.11       The power sector in Thailand has grown at a rapid pace over the past two decades.
Considerable progress has been made in making electricity widely available, especially in provincial
urban areas. Industrial consumption has also been growing rapidly. Overall, growth in power demand
has consistently exceeded that of commercial energy consumption. This has resulted in a per capita
electricity consumption in Thailand (about 970 kWh in 1993) higher than the average for countries at an
income level similar to Thailand. Similar trends are expected to prevail in the future as the country's
industrial and socio-economic development accelerates.
D. Organization and Planning
1.12       The energy sector in Thailand is operated by a number of well-managed and mature public
institutions. Their inter- and intra-sectoral arrangements are quite sophisticated and the policy
framework is extensive. There are numerous energy-related agencies, spreading across many ministries
and include several cabinet level committees. The relationships between Government energy agencies
and state energy enterprises are increasingly similar to those of other advanced East Asian countries; the
agencies formulate energy policies in line with the enterprises' commercial objectives, yet these are
consistent with the country's needs.



-4-
1.13       The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) -- the dominant entity in the petroleum sector
-- is involved in downstream oil and gas activities; upstream activities are carried out by the private
sector. PTT is responsible, inter alia, for the purchase, transport, processing and sale of natural gas.
However, PTT competes with international oil companies and has a third of the market share in the
distribution and marketing of oil. The power sector is organized around three state enterprises: EGAT
is responsible for generating and transmitting electricity and producing and utilizing lignite, while the
Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) are
responsible for power distribution in the Bangkok metropolitan area and the rest of the country,
respectively. Highlights of the operations of EGAT, MEA and PEA are included in Annex 1.
1.14       Energy policy and planning is vested in key governmental organizations. At the highest
level is the National Energy Policy Council (NEPC) which is chaired by the Prime Minister. Its
members include the deputy prime minister, ministers whose portfolio involve energy, and
representatives from the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), the secretary
general of the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO), the director general of the Energy Development
Promotion Department (EDPD), and the director of the Budget Bureau. The NEPO, which is the
secretariat to NEPC and acts as its operating arm, functions primarily as a link between NEPC and the
country's state energy enterprises and conducts all energy policy work. The NESDB is a central
planning agency that assesses the country's economy and prepares the five-year plans. The various
departments involved in energy affairs are: (a) the Department of Mineral Resources, responsible for
assessing and preliminary exploration of the country's coal and petroleum reserves; (b) the Department
of Energy Development and Promotion, which was recently established to assume responsibilities of the
now-defunct National Energy Administration, responsible for conducting research and development and
monitoring energy sector activities; and (c) the Department of Industrial Works, responsible for
controlling industrial air and water pollution.
1.15       State enterprises engaged in the energy sector enjoy a large degree of autonomy in the
conduct of day-to-day operations; however, they are subject to strict government control in all matters
related to investment planning and financing. Because of strict procedures for controlling public debt,
all loans made by public enterprises requiring government guarantee must be approved by the National
Debt Policy Committee and by the Cabinet, and subsequently endorsed by the Fiscal Policy Office
(FPO) of the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, in 1985 a National State Enterprise Committee was
appointed under the Prime Minister to monitor compliance by public enterprises with government
guidelines in the area of pricing. While many of these state energy enterprises still lack financial
discipline and autonomy or suffer from labor redundancy and cumbersome personnel policies, this is
not the case with PTT and EGAT. Both these enterprises are in the process of undergoing a major
restructuring of their organization through corporatization, with a view to a partial or full privatization.
E. Environment
1.16       In 1992, the Government revised its National Environmental Act, reorganizing the Office
of the National Environment Board (NEB), and establishing NEB as a cabinet-level committee chaired
by the Prime Minister. The Act established three department-level organizations that report directly to
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Science, Technology and the Environment (MOSTE).
These are the Office of Environmental Policy and Planning (OEPP), the Department of Pollution



-5-
Control (DPC) and the Department of Environmental Quality Promotion (DEQP).   The Act
strengthened public's right to be informed and to participate in environmental matters and established an
NGO coordination unit to facilitate this. The Act also established an Environmental and Quality of Life
Development Fund (funded by surcharges on natural gas and petroleum products) to finance
environment protection programs of private industry, local authorities, NGOs and communities. About
Baht 550 million were used from this fund in 1993-94 for pollution control activities in Pattaya, Phuket
and Hadyai.
1.17       The OEPP is currently engaged in preparing a National Environmental Action Plan with
the guidance of a subcommittee established under the NEB. In the interim period, it has prepared a
Provincial Action Plan that identifies policies and measures for protecting the country's natural
resources and the environment. In regard to the energy sector, this plan: (a) lays out plans to control
pollution from vehicles and industry; (b) identifies areas of serious environmental concern and
establishes preventive and emergency measures to deal with their atmospheric pollution; (c) establishes
criteria and regulations to control pollution from burning lignite in industries; and (d) lays down
methods for monitoring ambient and emission levels and preparing an inventory of pollution sources.
Based on these plans, investments are being made in: (a) improving fuel quality to reduce emissions; (b)
building monitoring systems in the industrial estates; and (c) strengthening the monitoring capacity for
atmospheric pollution from Government entities such as EGAT.
1.18        The process for the approval of the Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) of projects
of public sector organizations, such as EGAT, was strengthened.  Particularly significant is the
appointment of an external "expert committee" (having representatives of affected ministries, academics,
and one member of the public, usually represented by an NGO), to review EIAs.
F. Energy Pricing
1.19       The current prices of all energy products in Thailand reflect their actual economic costs
except for lignite. In August 1991, the Government deregulated the price of all petroleum products
except liquified petroleum gas (LPG). In addition, the Oil Stabilization Fund, which was established by
the Government in 1974 as a mechanism to dampen the effect of large short-run movements in
international oil prices on retail product prices, was phased out.
1.20       Currently, the ex-refinery prices of oil are tied to the world market through periodic price
adjustments based on the Singapore spot-market price. Except for a small surcharge levied on imported
oil products to protect domestic refiners, the domestically-refined petroleum price structure fully reflects
the cost of supply based on the international market. In 1993, the Government allowed EGAT to
purchase 20% of its oil on the open market, on a trial basis. PTT was successful in the tender process
and currently has long-term contracts with EGAT to supply virtually all of the heavy oil for five of
EGAT's power plants at market-based prices.
1.21       The unique features of the domestic gas industry in Thailand have led to the development
of a relatively sophisticated pricing structure in which the country has a separate pricing system for gas
producers and consumers. The principle the Government applies when setting consumer prices is to
link gas prices to alternative fuel prices in each activity. The present price of gas to industry, which



-6-
consumes less than 6% of the total, is intended to encourage LPG consumers to shift to gas; but, no
such incentive is provided to fuel oil users, because gas has a lower netback value when substituted for
fuel oil. The price to industry is significantly higher than the one established for the power sector,
since the margin of substitution between LPG and gas has been high, even after a discount to allow for
penetration of gas into the LPG market. The price to the power sector, where over 90% of total gas is
used, is based on the price paid by PTT to upstream producers, the average cost of gas transmission,
and the VAT.
1.22       Lignite is not traded internationally due to its low heat content and high transport costs.
Its price in the industrial sector is determined by market forces, and in the power sub-sector, where
EGAT plays the role of supplier and consumer, the price is reflected in a "transfer price" used for'
planning purposes to analyze expansion investment decisions.
G. Energy Conservation
1.23       Concerned with the rapid growth in energy consumption and its impact on the economy
and the environment, the Government is fostering energy conservation in all sectors of the economy. In
1992, the Government approved legislation establishing the Energy Conservation Promotion Act, which
increased the commitment and resources necessary to implement a comprehensive energy efficiency
program. The Act: (a) formalized the responsibilities of the Department of Energy Development and
Promotion (DEDP) as the lead implementation agency for energy conservation; (b) gave DEDP the
authority to issue voluntary building energy codes and appliance efficiency standards; (c) identified a
class of large energy users as "controlled facilities" and required that they hire energy managers,
conduct energy studies and develop energy conservation plans, or face large financial penalties; and (d)
established the Energy Conservation Promotion Fund (ECF), financed through taxes on refinery
products. The ECF will fund energy conservation, renewable energy and cogeneration projects as well
as support training, technical assistance, promotion, monitoring and evaluation, research and
demonstration, technology transfer, and related activities that improve environmental conditions.
1.24       The Government has established an Industrial Process Efficiency Program to be managed
by DEDP and implemented by the Energy Conservation Center of Thailand (ECCT), with a budget of
US$30 million and a savings potential of 30 MW and 220 GWh (per annum) by 1997.
1.25       To foster electricity conservation through appropriate pricing policies, the Government has
restructured and increased electricity tariffs in 1991 so that the average tariffs for all consumer classes,
except residential, are practically equal to long-run marginal cost. Demand charges are levied for all
medium and large general service consumers, while time-of-use (TOU) tariffs are mandatory for large
general service consumers and optional for those that are small. The introduction of TOU tariffs has
had limited success because it has been hampered by the lack of an adequate tariff structure to
distribution companies, which do not pay demand charges to EGAT.
Demand Side Management
1.26       In 1992, a Demand Side Management (DSM) master plan was approved by NEPC, having
an initial five-year program with a budget of US$189 million and a modest savings target of



-7-
approximately 238 MW, 1,427 GWh per year. Potentially, DSM could reduce peak demand by 2,000
MW over the next decade, which is a reduction of about 8% of the system needs. The program's
objectives would be achieved by: (a) providing user and manufacturer incentives and consumer
education to influence practices and attitudes towards energy-efficient technologies; (b) developing
efficiency standards and testing capabilities to exercise control and monitor efficiency improvements; (c)
developing and promulgating building and appliance codes so as to enforce minimum efficiency
standards; and (d) pursuing technological improvements and their adaptation to Thai conditions. The
program's potential benefits are estimated at about US$260 million in capital investment and US$30
million per year in fuel expenses.  EGAT has been charged with the primary responsibility for
implementing the DSM program (see Annex 2 for details).
H. Privatization in the Power Sector
1.27       Over the last decade, the Government has looked to privatization as a means of reducing
public sector borrowing and increasing enterprise efficiency.  It has reduced the number of state
enterprises from about 100 to 63, and has made a concerted effort to involve the private sector in state
enterprises through the partial sale of shares, private participation in the enterprises, contracting out of
services, and joint ventures.  The Bank's operational involvement in the Thai power sector has
facilitated continuing inputs to its privatization process. Under Bank advice, and as a first step towards
commercialization, an organizational efficiency study of EGAT was conducted by consultants. EGAT
organization is currently being restructured in line with the study's recommendations. In September
1992, the Government approved a plan for deregulation, restructuring, and privatization of the power
subsector. At the center of the structure would be a corporatized EGAT which, while continuing to be
a major power producer, would purchase electricity from independent power producers (IPPs) and
neighboring countries, and transmit and sell it to the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA), the
Provincial Power Authority (PEA) and major industrial users. The regulator of the subsector would be
the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO).
1.28       The conceptual framework of the government policy and the steps of its privatization
master plan for the subsector are as follows:
Step 1:    (a) Deregulate EGAT subject to its meeting the following criteria for "Good State
Enterprise": (i) ability to remit 30% of its net profit to the Government; (ii) labor
cost not to exceed 20% of total assets; (iii) no less than 6% rate of return on total
revalued assets; (iv) improvement in productivity by at least 2% per annum; (b)
Place the buying and selling of electricity among EGAT, MEA and PEA, and fuel
purchasing on a commercial contractual basis; (c) Sell 51% of the stock of the
Electricity Generating Company (EGCO) (see para. 1.36); and (d) Eliminate the
uniform tariff policy.
Step 2:    (a) Encourage private sector participation, including IPPs and EGCO, in power
generation investment following the steps specified in the Private Sector
Participation in State-Owned Activities Act of 1992; (b) Identify the proportion and
projects available for private sector investment; (c) Commercialize EGAT's
operations by its decentralization and restructuring into business units; (d) Prepare



-8-
for the deregulation of MEA and PEA; (e) Restructure PEA on a regional basis;
and (f) Implement electricity tariff based on marginal cost for each region.
Step 3:    (a) Corporatize EGAT, MEA and PEA by amending their related acts; (b) Register
EGAT as a public company on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET); and (c)
Invite IPPs to actually participate in power generation investment.
Step 4:    (a) Sell EGAT shares on the SET with the Government retaining majority holding;
and (b) Separate PEA into regional companies in preparation for its privatization.
1.29       The plan is expected to be completed by 1997/98. The progress of the privatization
exercise and timetable is presented in Annex 3. EGCO was listed on the stock exchange in January
1995. EGAT is expected to achieve "Good State Enterprise" status by June 1995. It has already
signed contracts with 20 small IPPs for an aggregate capacity of 210 MW, finalized comprehensive
documents for contracting 3,800 MW of capacity over 1995-2003 and expects to receive IPP proposals
for the first 1,000 MW by June 1995. It is expected that the proposed framework would attract IPPs,
as evidenced by the interest shown by dozens of IPPs at a recent seminar conducted by EGAT and the
Government. The Government has already undertaken on a road show for soliciting private power
finance.
1.30       The privatization framework and implementation steps that the Government has proposed
for the power sector are well planned and well tailored to the circumstances in Thailand. Privatization
is now on a steady path and its pace is being accelerated. The Government has deftly resolved serious
opposition from the unions to corporatization of the power sector entities. The Government has shown
keen interest in associating the Bank in its privatization efforts across the board by: (a) requesting the
Bank to undertake a comprehensive review of privatization of its state enterprises (Bank's Report No.
1312-TH, "Increasing Private Participation and Improving Efficiency in State Enterprises"); and (b)
conducting seminars to discuss privatization issues between highest levels in the Bank and the
Government, including the Prime Minister. In regard to the power sector, the Bank has recommended
several measures to enhance competition, notably: in the near term: (a) EGCO to be fully divested and
its management made independent of EGAT; and (b) accelerate the pace of introducing IPPs; in the
longer term: (a) divest EGAT into a number of generation companies, with EGAT becoming a
transmission and power pool company; and (b) distribution companies and large industrial consumers to
be allowed to purchase directly from any power producer. The Government is receptive to the Bank's
suggestions and would solicit Bank's assistance in working out details as the privatization program
proceeds.
Promotion of Small Power Producers
1.31       The first step taken by the Government towards increasing private sector participation was
allowing cogenerators and small power producers to sell power to EGAT. Cogenerators are power
plants that produce both steam and electricity and are often part of industrial estates. Small power
producers are plants that sell less than 60 MW to EGAT. At present, there are 20 small power
producers with a total installed capacity of 669 MW mostly utilizing traditional fuels such as bagasse,
rice husk, wood, etc. EGAT has signed nine contracts totalling about 200 MW with these producers
and five have actually sold their output to EGAT in 1994.



-9-
Independent Power Producers (IPPs)
1.32       The Government has taken necessary steps to encourage IPPs to invest, own and operate
large-scale power plants, as well as sell their output to EGAT. The IPPs are expected to bid for
EGAT's new capacity requirement or new power projects in EGAT's PDP.
1.33       An open invitation to bid to produce power is underway following the recent approval by
NEPC in May 1994 for the purchase of electricity from IPPs by EGAT in stages as follows: (a) 1,000
MW for 1996-2000; (b) 2,800 MW for 2001-2002; and (c) 1,700 MW in each year from 2003 to 2006.
A public seminar was organized in August 1994 to solicit comments from prospective bidders; several
have already expressed their intentions to compete for IPP licenses. Bid invitations are expected to be
announced by June 1995. For projects to be commissioned in the initial stage (1996-2000), the IPP
bids need to be submitted before the end of March 1995. Invitation for specific projects, meanwhile,
will also be issued.
1.34       IPP projects are expected to have a capacity of 100 MW or more. The projects will be
promoted by the Board of Investments and given various incentives such as tax breaks of up to eight
years and exemption from the machinery import tax. The Government is expected to impose minimum
conditions on private investment in the power subsector and will evaluate IPPs on the various criteria
that include, among others, the type of energy that will be used to generate electricity.
Electricity Generating Company (EGCO)
1.35       One of the early initiatives undertaken by the Government in line with the privatization
master plan was the establishment of EGCO, a wholly-owned subsidiary of EGAT, which listed 51 % of
its share in the SET. The reduction of EGAT's shareholding in EGCO to 49% by offering shares to
the general public in both domestic and international equity markets was the first major privatization of
an electricity generating business in Thailand.
1.36       In March 1992, the National Assembly passed an amendment to the EGAT Act allowing
EGAT to establish EGCO, and consultants were hired to assist EGCO in optimizing its capital
structure, determining the logistics of privatization, pricing and timing of both equity and debt issues,
drafting of EGCO's primary contracts, and the organization and staffing plan. The consultant's report,
finalized in December 1992, proposed the sale of the Rayong combined cycle power plant by EGAT.
A second stage of the consultancy worked on the actual underwriting of both stock and bonds of EGCO
(see Annex 3 for more information on EGCO).
I. Energy Sector Issues and Strategy
1.37       The issues facing the energy sector and the Government's strategy in meeting the
challenges posed are summarized hereunder:
(a)   A huge program of investments in the power subsector over the next six years - US$14
billion by EGAT, US$4.0 billion by PEA and US$2.0 billion by MEA - would greatly



-10-
increase public sector debt. In response, the Government is taking necessary measures to
involve the private sector in funding power projects (paras. 1.27 to 1.33).
(b)   Thailand's domestic resources for power generation are limited. Natural gas is fully
committed, lignite poses technical and environmental problems, while hydropower
development invites strong protests from dam opponents. Thailand would thus need to
rely heavily on imported energy for power generation, and for this it has several options,
including piped natural gas from Malaysia and Myanmar, liquified natural gas (LNG)
from the international market, coal from the Pacific rim countries and hydro power from
Laos.  The Bank's 1993 Fuel Option Study (Report No 11948-TH) analyzes these
prospects in depth, and in the coming years the Bank expects to assist the Government in
firming up its fuel choices.
(c)   While pursuing a large power development program, the Government needs to pay serious
attention to improving the efficiency of energy consumption in general and electricity
consumption in particular. Its: (a) 1992 Energy Conservation Promotion Act and the
associated Energy Conservation Fund (para. 1.23); and (b) the DSM Master Plan (para.
1.26) provide a strong thrust in this direction.
(d)  In recent years, the Government has placed a strong emphasis on environmentally sound
and sustainable development as evidenced from its Environmental Quality Act of 1992
(para. 1. 16).  Gaining from  its experience under the Bank's Third Power System
Development Project (Loan 3423-TH), the Government has increasingly emphasized
involvement of affected people and selected NGOs in environmentally sensitive projects
and formalized this in the evaluation of EIAs. In regard to atmospheric emissions from
power plants, the Government has decided to fit (and retrofit as appropriate) flue gas
desulfirizers on lignite-fired thermal power units and use low sulfur oil (costing 20%
more) in oil fired thermal power units. It has also introduced stringent short-term SO2
ambient standards to safeguard the health of the people, especially in the vicinity of the
Mae Moh mining-power complex.



Chapter II
The Power Subsector
A. The Power Market
2.1        The electricity market has grown at a very rapid pace over the past two decades. Total
sales of electricity and per capita consumption increased from 17,563 GWh and 355 kWh, respectively,
in 1983 to about 56,558 GWh and 979 kWh in 1993, averaging a growth rate of 12.4% p.a. (compared
to an average GDP growth rate of 8.6%). Over the years, the industrial sector has become the major
electricity consumer, accounting for 46% of electricity sales in FY93.  This is followed by the
commercial sector (32%) and the residential sector (21%). EGAT's daily load curves which have
shown a pronounced evening peak until about 1990, have started demonstrating an increasing day time
peak from 1992 to 1993, showing that considerable changes are taking place in the structure of
electricity use in Thailand. The DSM program (paras. 1.25 and 1.26) will address the issues
concerning the magnitude and shape of EGAT's load curve.
2.2        A sharp upsurge in economic activity in the late 1980s (GDP growth was 13.3% in FY88,
12.2% in FY89 and 11.6% in FY90) translated into very high growths in electricity demand (15% in
FY88, 14.5% in FY89 and 13.8% in FY90). The demand growth rates slowed to 13.4% in FY91,
10.3% in FY92 and 9.6% in FY93. The latest load forecast (detailed in Annex 4 and summarized in
Table 2.1), as developed by the National Load Forecast Working Group (composed inter alia of
NESDB, EGAT, MEA, PEA and NEA) envisages a 9.5% growth rate in electricity generation over the
1993-98 period. This growth rate is commensurate with the forecast rate of economic development and
is considered to be reasonable. The growth rates are moderated to below 7.0% p.a. over 1998-2003.
These projections have been endorsed by the Government as providing a suitable basis for planning
purposes.
Table 2.1: LOAD FORECAST 1993-2003
FY88           JY93           FY98            FY03
Peak Generation (MW)           5,444    |    9,730           15,315          21,440
Net Energy Generation (GWh)   31,997         62,180          98,763         141,862
Annual Load Factor (%)         67.1     T      73.0           74.0            74.5
Growth Rates (average % p.a.)                                                           l
Peak Generation                 15             9.6      |     7.9      1      5.9
Net Energy Generation          13.5            11.0    l      8.3             6.5
B. Generation and Transmission Facilities
2.3        As of September 1993, EGAT's installed capacity was approximately 12,178.3 MW with
another 2,018 MW under construction. Generating facilities (Annex 5) consist of conventional thermal
plants (50%), hydropower (20%), combined-cycle plants (28%) and combustion turbines (2%). Over



-12-
the years, EGAT has converted most of its oil-based thermal capacity (6,102 MW) to dual oil/gas firing
to take advantage of the increasing availability of natural gas while maintaining the option to switch
over to oil. Other thermal plants include lignite-fired units (2,059 MW) and the remaining oil-fired
units (4,043 MW).
2.4        EGAT's transmission facilities are tabulated in Annex 6. In addition to the construction of
transmission lines and substations required to evacuate the output of new generation plants, EGAT is
progressively developing a transmission system to serve various areas of the country. At present,
EGAT operates 20,005 circuit-kilometers (ckm) of transmission lines, including 1,201 ckm constructed
for 500 kV.
C. Power Development Plan
2.5        EGAT has fully computerized the formulation of its power development plan (PDP) using
the WIGPLAN model. It regularly updates the PDP in response to changes in demand growth, fuel
availability and price, and earliest possible commissioning dates of candidate generating plants. Its
latest power development plan (presented in Annexes 7, 8 and 9) does not take into account availability
of piped gas from Malaysia or Myanmar, import of gas in the form of LNG or import of hydro power
from Laos. Although these prospective sources are under Government's active consideration, no firm
decisions have yet been taken. EGAT would consider these sources in its development plan as soon as
firm contract arrangements for supply have been negotiated. Of note in this PDP, as compared to
previous PDPs, are: (a) the introduction of a 300 MW fluidized bed combustion unit for the first time
in EGAT's system; (b) the use of low (0.5%) sulfur oil (at about 20% higher cost) in oil-fired units; (c)
deferment of expansion at Lampang (Mae Moh) to 2001 and use of wet flue gas desulfurizers on all
lignite-fired units; (e) absence of development of lignite-fired units at Saba Yoi due to political reasons;
(e) deferment of imported coal fired units for environmental reasons and specification of dual fuel
(oil/coal) for these plants; (f) strengthening of the interconnection between the Thai and Malaysian grids
to 300 MW using HVDC (this link would be upgraded later); and (g) very modest hydropower (447
MW) development due to environmental considerations. Table 2.2 summarizes the aggregate capacity
additions up to the year 2003. This indicates: (a) a substantial addition of gas-fired combined-cycle
capacity up to 1998 when current gas reserves would be fully committed; (b) a substantial lignite-based
development most of which would be towards the latter part of the century; (c) a fairly large imported
coal/oil-fired capacity; (d) a mix of pump storage and internal combustion turbine peaking capacity; (e)
a modest development of hydro power; and (f) no addition of oil/gas-fired or fuel oil-fired capacity.



-13-
Table 2.2:  POWER GENERATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN (1994-2003)
(capacity additions in MW)
Type of Facility          FY94-98                FY99-03                  Total
Conventional Steam Plants
Natural Gas/Oil                0                       0                      0
Lignite                       600                    2,100                  2,700
Coal/Oil (imported)            0                     5,100                  5,100
Fuel Oil                       0                       0                      0
Combined Cycle                 3,302                   600                    3,902
Pump Storage                    175                   1,300                   1,475
Combustion Turbine              600                     0                      600
Hydro                           261                    186                     447
TOTAL              [        4,938                  9,286          |       14,224
2.6         The shares of various types of fuel in electricity generation are expected to move as
follows (Annex 9): (a) hydropower -- declining from the 1994 level of 5.3% to 4.7% by 2003; (b)
natural gas -- increasing to a peak level of 45.9% by 1994 and then declining to 42.4% by 2003; (c)
fuel oil -- remaining at a level of about 29.5% until 1998 and thereafter declining to about 5.6% by
2003; (d) lignite -- increasing from the current level of 19. 1 % to 22.0% by 2003; and (e) imported coal
-- starting from 2000 and reaching a level of 24.6% by 2003. The fuel mix would change significantly
towards the latter part of the century if import of piped natural gas from Myanmar and Malaysia and/or
hydropower from Laos and Myanmar are taken into consideration. These potential developments are
currently not taken into account in EGAT's planning process, but would soon be in the future, subject
to firming up of import opportunities for natural gas and hydropower. Likewise, savings due to DSM
would be integrated in the planning process, as such savings become significant over the years.
2.7         EGAT's transmission program is aimed at extending high voltage 230 kV and 115 kV
transmission facilities to all provinces of Thailand by the mid-1990s. The extra high voltage 500 kV
transmission system, which is superimposed on the 230 kV system, is required for bulk power
transmission to accommodate the large-scale development of lignite-fired power plants at Mae Moh.
EGAT's transmission development plan, shown in Table 2.3, is reasonable.
2.8         Overall, EGAT's PDP is appropriate to the present circumstances. Project supervision
would provide the Bank with an opportunity to review regular updates of EGAT's PDP to monitor the
impact of changes in power demand and fuel supply scenarios on the composition and magnitude of
power investments. Agreement was reached at negotiations that EGAT will carry out an annual review
and update of its 5-year investment program and related financing plan and exchange views with the
Bank and the Government on the said program.



-14-
Table 2.3: EGAT's TRANSMISSION DEVELOPMENT PLAN
(1993-2003)
FY93-97                FY98-02                TOTAL
Transmission Lines (in ckm)
500 kv                        455                   4,162                   4,617
230 kv                       2,567                  1,474                   5,041
115 kv                       2,854                   219                   3,073
TOTAL                       6,876         |        5,855         |        12,731l
D. Past Bank Experience and Sector Strategy
Experience with Past Loans
2.9         The Bank has made 22 loans to Thailand for power, of which 17 have been made to
EGAT and its predecessor for financing the expansion of electricity generation and transmission
facilities, four to PEA for rural electrification, and one to MEA for distribution expansion. Of the 17
loans to EGAT, 13 have been fully disbursed; the other two are progressing on schedule. Three loans
to PEA have been fully disbursed and one is progressing satisfactorily. The loan to MEA is also
progressing satisfactorily.
2.10       In the last several years, EGAT completed five Bank-financed projects for power
generation: Bang Pakong Thermal (Loan 1690-TH) and Khao Laem Hydro (Loan 1770-TH) in 1985,
Pattani Hydro (Loan 1485-TH) in 1983, Power Subsector (Loan 2000-TH) in 1987, and Power System
Development (Loan 3027-TH) in 1992. The corresponding project completion reports and project
performance audit reports highlight EGAT's financial recovery following the oil price increases of the
early 1980s from a -2% rate of return on revalued assets in FY79 to 7.5% in FY91, the maturity of the
Bank's operational and policy dialogue with the power sector, and EGAT's proven project
implementation and financial track record. These projects were completed on schedule and within the
appraisal cost estimates with three minor exceptions: (a) the Khao Laem Hydro project was 12 months
behind schedule and had a 4% cost overrun because of unexpected complications in civil works; (b) the
Power Subsector project, was completed 15 months late and 51% under the appraisal project cost
estimate because inflation assumptions used to project contingencies were higher than actual increases,
and because one component of the project was canceled; and (c) the Power System Development
project, was completed 12 months late due to adverse weather conditions and a shortage of cement in
the country which resulted in a delay in the commissioning of one project component.
2.11       Three main lessons have been learnt from the Bank's previous and ongoing projects with
EGAT. First: the need for thorough investigations of geological conditions and provision of adequate
contingencies for civil works for hydro projects; Second: the need for involvement of: (a) relevant
people and agencies in project design; (b) affected people in designing the compensation scheme; (c)
external experts in reviewing project EIAs; and (d) affected persons in oversight committees; and Third:
the need for providing adequate reserves in cost estimates for environmental impact mitigation and
compensation.  These lessons have been fully applied in the design of the proposed project. In



-15-
particular, extensive field testing has been undertaken to establish the soundness of the site's geological
conditions.
2.12        Bank participation in the power subsector has helped EGAT to develop into a technically
competent and efficient power utility. The Bank's associations with PEA and MEA are oriented
towards achieving major institutional improvements and fostering energy efficiency.  Through its
continuing dialogue with the subsector institutions, the Bank has been instrumental in the
implementation of adequate overall electricity tariff levels, ensuring the sector's financial soundness and
the cost effectiveness of power generation investments. Bank-sponsored sector work in investment
planning and energy pricing also represented significant contributions towards improving sector
coordination. Overall, the Bank's presence in the power subsector has helped ensure that utilities were
soundly managed and has encouraged other lenders to provide investment financing for the subsector on
favorable terms.
2.13        In the lignite mining subsector, the Bank has made two loans to EGAT to finance the
development of the Mae Moh mine. The first loan (Loan 1852-TH), which financed expansion of
production capacity from 1 million tpa to 2.8 million tpa, was closed in April 1988 and a Project
Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared. The second loan (Loan 2407-TH), supporting further
expansion of production capacity to 5 million tpa, closed April 30, 1991. Through these two projects
EGAT received substantial technical assistance that has led to improved capabilities in all aspects of
mining operations, including the exploration for and evaluation of lignite reserves in other parts of the
country. Establishment of a mine accounting system separate from accounts for power operations and
the carrying out of a lignite pricing study have enabled the monitoring of costs and establishment of an
internal lignite pricing formula based on appropriate transfer price agreed with the Bank. The charge to
EGAT for lignite is made at an economic transfer price reflecting long-run marginal cost of lignite,
which is the sum of EGAT's mining costs and a depletion premium that accounts for the increasing
economic scarcity value of lignite and the associated cost to the economy of the early use of an
exhaustible resource.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.14        Through sustained involvement over a number of years, the Bank has contributed
significantly to the development of the Thai energy sector. With a modest level of lending, the Bank
has been able to exercise significant policy leverage. Bank advice and assistance have helped the
Government effectively address the issues of: (a) least-cost investment planning, particularly with regard
to fuel choices; (b) supply- and demand- side management and resource pricing; (c) power sector
restructuring and privatization; (d) environmental reforms; and (e) participatory development.
However, further work remains to be done in actual implementation of the proposed sector strategies.
The project is expected to make a significant contribution in reforming the tariff structure and
strengthening the environmental capabilities of the power sector's dominant entity. In its formulation
itself, the project has provided an opportunity for putting into practice the policy for involvement of
affected persons in rehabilitation/compensation and the Bank expects to supervise this process closely
during implementation. In addition to its inputs through specific sector work, the Bank's continuing
operational involvement in the Thai power sector is essential to exercise significant influence on
Government policies towards evolution of the sector in an economically efficient, financially sound and
environmentally sustainable manner, and for its orderly progress towards reform, restructuring and
privatization.



-16-
2.15       The policies and programs pursued by the Government in the power sector are in
compliance with the Bank's policies and guidelines. The project is also consistent with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No. 13458-TH). As discussed in the CAS, which was
presented to the Board on September 22, 1994, Bank's support to Thailand aims at providing value
added in terms of helping Thailand address the most important long-term development issues. Among
the priority areas for Bank assistance identified in the CAS are development of the physical
infrastructure and improvement in environmental management to which this project would contribute.
Rationalization of the bulk supply tariff would facilitate power sector restructuring and privatization.
Strengthening EGAT's environmental capabilities and improving the process of consultation with
affected communities, would upgrade the framework for environmental management.



Chapter III
The Borrower
A. Organization and Management
3.1          EGAT is wholly-owned by the Kingdom of Thailand and comes under the direct
supervision of the Office of the Prime Minister. According to its Act, it is responsible for: (a)
constructing and operating dams and reservoirs; (b) constructing and operating thermal, hydro, nuclear
and other types of power plants; (c) improving and expanding substation and transmission systems; (d)
specifying standards, types and sizes for substations, transmission systems, power plants and lignite
plants, and fuel for power production; and (e) formulating policy in connection with power production
and sale of electricity, lignite and other by-products.
3.2          EGAT enjoys broad autonomy in managing its day-to-day affairs but matters relating to
planning, budgeting, pricing, and financing of investments are subject to Government approval.
Nevertheless, EGAT's management exercises substantial influence on Government's decisions in these
matters.
3.3          EGAT has grown rapidly into a large organization with a sound structural system. At
present, there are 11 members of the Board of Directors headed by a chairman. Of the 11 members of
the Board, 10 are appointed by the Council of Ministers. The main functions of the Board are to set up
policy and give advice to EGAT's top executives. The General Manager, who is not appointed, sits in
the Board as one of the directors. He is responsible for implementing the Board's decisions and for day-
to-day management. With the exception of the General Manager, all directors who represent government
interests and the private sector, act in a part-time capacity. The Internal Auditor is not a member of the
Board but may at his own initiative express his opinions at any of the Board meetings. All Board
members have a three year term.
3.4          The present management of EGAT comprises of a General Manager, eight deputy general
managers and 15 assistant general managers. The deputy general managers are responsible directly for
organizational management of eight divisions:   Policy and Planning; Account and Finance;
Administration; Construction; Transmission System Operation; Mining; Power Plant and Operation; and
Engineering. Divisional responsibilities are broken down into departments headed by assistant general
managers. The Internal Audit Department reports directly to the General Manager.
3.5          In order to increase operational efficiency, EGAT's organization structure (Chart 1) was
changed in November 1993 from a division of business activities according to type of plant, to one
according to function. As a result, managerial authority for power plant operations and certain functions
such as procurement, financing of investments up to certain approved limits, and recruitment of lower
level personnel were decentralized to the regions and provinces. However, core activities (power plant
and substation maintenance, chemical analysis, environment, etc.) remain under the central office. The
reorganization resulted in the creation of: (a) new groups for Construction, Mining and Engineering; (b)
new assistant general manager positions for the Mae Moh and the Bang Pakong Power Plants under the
Power Plant Operation Group; and (c) new departments under each assistant general manager (Demand
Side Management Office and Computer Office under the Policy and Planning Group, Solid Fuel



-18-
Exploration and Mae Moh Planning and Administration Department under the Mining Group, Mae Moh
Power and Bang Pakong Power Plant Maintenance under the Power Plant Operation Group, and
Development and Planning, Environment, and Civil Engineering under the Engineering Group).
3.6          EGAT's organization structure is still in transition. The current structure may be
modified again in FY95, following management's review of the results of two consulting studies
(described below) on EGAT's organization. Both studies have recommended a completely new,
decentralized type of organization when EGAT becomes a limited company. As the proposed structure
deviates considerably from the existing EGAT structure, the studies also recommended an intermediate
organizational model, reorganizing EGAT along business units, that could be readily introduced when
EGAT qualifies for GSE status. Both studies in the intermediate stage, propose the same structure and
differ only in the number of units that would be created. However, the long-run target organization
models differ in that one study proposes the creation of independent organizational units operating as
business, operative or service units, while the other proposes the creation of generation/transmission,
design and construction, maintenance, and subsidiary (for non-core business) companies.
EGAT Effciency Study
3.7          In 1991, EGAT engaged consultants to conduct an operational efficiency study in
connection with the Second Power System Development Project (Loan 3138-TH). The first phase (June-
December 1991) analyzed employee attitudes and satisfaction towards EGAT's operational circles,
through staff surveys and consultative meetings. The results showed that employees' satisfaction towards
EGAT's operational activities were of a moderately high level with staff giving high ratings for job
environment, inter-relationship, communication, and job function.   The study recommended
improvements in four priority areas: management, personnel development, staff welfare, and public
relations.
3.8          The second phase (October 1992-June 1993) covered eight studies in corporate planning,
system dispatch, organization, economic and financial systems, human resources and power system
planning. The main recommendations for actions in the short term were:  (a) introduce a new
decentralized type of organization which should be implemented as soon as EGAT is converted into a
"Good State Enterprise" (GSE); as an interim action an "Intermediate Organization" was also proposed;
(b) determine new financial corporate objectives by developing a concrete strategy for reduction of cost
and capital expenditure, tariff adjustments, etc.; (c) decentralize authorities and responsibilities when the
new organization is established to include higher decision-making authorities for all managers; (d)
strengthen the management information system; (e) substantially modify EGAT's present budget system;
(f) introduce market oriented salaries and benefits; (g) emphasize short-run marginal cost scheduling; and
(h) improve the suitable strategic planning process through which objectives are formulated, goals are set,
and actions are taken in the short-term. The final report of the study is now being reviewed by EGAT
management.
EGAT Privatization Study
3.9          In 1991, EGAT contracted the services of financial advisors to lay out a specific plan and
present recommendations to management for EGAT's privatization. Phase I of the study (June-November
1991) provided the background work and created EGAT privatization work teams. This phase concluded
with a privatization plan that was submitted by EGAT to the Government. The Government broadened
EGAT's recommendations and the plan, eventually, became the blueprint for the Government's



-19-
privatization program. Phase II of the Study (May 1993-February 1994) produced recommendations and
associated action plans, including a new organizational structure to prepare for EGAT's corporatization
and eventual privatization. This phase also included a review and implementation plan of EGAT's tariffs,
fuel supply contract arrangements, IPP solicitation process, and the restructuring of EGAT into business
units. The consultants are now preparing their final report and recommendations to EGAT management.
B. Staffing and Training
3.10          EGAT's staff is professional and well-qualified. As of December 1993, EGAT employed
34,946 persons, 4,362 at various managerial levels and 29,892 non-managerial positions consisting of
engineers, accountants, technicians and administrative and other skilled workers. About 692 employees
are on temporary status. Three fourths of the staff are between the ages of 25 to 44. More than half of
the staff (62%) have received some form of higher education, with 19% being university graduates.
About 19% of staff are females and half of them have university degrees. EGAT's staff composition and
educational qualifications is presented in Table 3. 1.
TABLE 3.1: EGAT STAFFING EVOLUTION
Increase
FY89       FY90        FY91         FY92        FY93       1989-1993
% p.a.
University graduates     5,652       5,980       6,343        6,478       6,583        3.9
Vocational education     11,574     12,662      14,445       14,734       14,948       6.6
Others                   14,571     14,511      14,202       13,988       13,250      (2.3)
TOTAL              J  31,797      33,153      34,990       35,200       34,781       2 3
3.11          EGAT has a current staffing ratio of 2.63 employees per MW installed and has budgeted
for staff numbers to rise by 3.1 % in 1995 due to the significant introduction of new plants. In line with
EGAT's goal of achieving GSE status, management intends to limit staff numbers to no more than 2.5
people per MW of installed capacity by October 1995. EGAT has a human resource program in place
to achieve reductions in staff numbers. The program, consisting of a generous compensation package
for early retirement, was approved in December 1993 and is being implemented to cover all non-technical
staff and target groups (excluding engineers). With this newly devised incentive and EGAT's normal
attrition rate, it expects to meet its targeted staffing ratio in FY95.
3.12          EGAT places considerable emphasis on strengthening of staff training to meet ongoing
structural changes in the power sub-sector and to enhance it own competitiveness.  The Training
Department is responsible for delivering effective training, managing human resources, and career
development. With a staff complement of 74 professionals and 223 support staff, it conducts training
activities in EGAT headquarters and three training centers at: (a) Bang Pakong, situated in the central
region, responsible for training in natural gas and oil fired thermal power plant operation and
maintenance, substation operation and maintenance, and simulator training; (b) Mae Moh in the north,
for training in lignite fired thermal power plant operation and maintenance, and simulator training; and



-20-
(c) Tha Thung Na in the west, for hydro power plant operation and maintenance training. From 1986-93,
a total of 93,573 staff received training for which EGAT spent a total of Baht 104.5 million.
3.13         EGAT's professional staff, 41%  of whom are engineers, is mostly recruited among
college graduates trained through in-house and external training courses as well as a system of rotational
assignments within EGAT. During the last year, 14,919 staff participated in 1,713 standard and specific
training programs designed by the Training Department. About two-thirds of staff were trained under
the standard program and a third under the specific program on technical subjects, quality control,
management, etc. Under the standard program, 86 technical courses (e.g. substation operation, digital
technology, power plant mechanical maintenance, etc.) and 80 non-technical courses (management and
leadership, project planning and control, computer literacy, and general work courses) were provided.
Under the specific programs, 11 technical courses and 55 non-technical courses were provided.
C. Operational Performance
3.14         At present, EGAT operates 131 units of various generating stations with a total capacity
of 12,626 MW; of which 19% is hydro; 48% conventional oil/gas and lignite-fired thermal; 31%
combined cycle; and 2 % gas turbine power plants. With a transmission line length of 20,005 circuit-km,
it has 173 substations and 26,351 MVA transformer capacity. EGAT has operated these facilities and
transmission network with high efficiency and reliability due to its good system maintenance as well as
its modem and well-equipped control centers. In 1992, EGAT inaugurated three new control centers
equipped with modern software and facilities including the Energy Management System (EMS),
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA), Man-Machine Interface (MMI) System, and other
advanced communication systems financed under the Power System Development Project (Loan No.
3027-TH).
3.15         Power losses, including both transmission and generation losses, amount to about 9 % of
electricity produced, with estimated transmission losses being about 4% and auxiliary consumption being
5 % of generation. This level is consistent with previous years' levels. Network losses are relatively high
when compared to those recorded for the more developed power grids of countries such as South Korea
and Japan, but are reasonable in view of EGAT's large transmission system which is still under evolution.
3.16         EGAT is a well-run organization and is capable of managing substantial growth in
investment because of its strengths in project cost control, implementation and management. In March
1992, it received the Operations Management Award from the World Executive's Digest Second Annual
Asia Management Awards program. The award was given in recognition of EGAT's outstanding
achievement in raising production capacity in a short time, while maintaining a high standard of service.
EGAT has been a Bank borrower since 1957 and has been a recipient of 17 loans. The credit for the
successful execution of these Bank projects is due, in most part, to the skill and commitment of EGAT
staff in headquarters and at the project sites. The experiences it has gained through the years of
association with the Bank also contributed to its good project performance. EGAT is familiar with the
Bank's procurement guidelines and processes tenders and awards contracts equitably and expeditiously.



-21-
D. Financial Management
Accounting
3.17          EGAT keeps its accounts in accordance with practices of typical modern power utility
companies. Its accounting systems and procedures are efficient; transactions such as general ledgers,
payroll, inventory transactions, accounts payable, and accounts receivable are fully computerized. EGAT
prepares an annual budget for capital and operational expenditures and periodic reports to management
enabling comparison of actual against budgeted performance. EGAT has built up a competent and
professional accounting staff over the years.
3.18          The billing and collection system has been operating satisfactorily. EGAT's accounts
receivables represent amounts due from MEA, PEA and other large customers. For FY93, MEA and
PEA settled their September 1993 bill in November 1993, while a long standing receivable due from the
Sattahip Navy Station of Baht 61 million (relating to sales of electricity between January and August
1990) was finally received in October 1993. Accounts receivables have improved from an average of
76 days of sales in FY87 to 42 days in FY93, and reflects the efficiency and adequacy of EGAT's
operating system. The practice is also consistent with a Government regulation requiring all state
enterprises to collect receivables within 60 days.
3.19          EGAT has developed an on-line Management Information System. The system, which
has been in various stages of development since 1984 covers subsystems for personnel, system operation,
progress of projects, finance and budget, fuel price and economic tariff, procurement, PDP, financial and
economic projection, energy demand and supply, records and statistics, and executive information.
Although the various subsystems are in operation as independent subsystems, total integration is expected
in 1997 and implementation of the integrated system in 1998.
Audit
3.20          The Internal Audit Department continues to operate effectively reporting directly to the
General Manager. A number of operational and management audits, as well as routine audit work, are
carried out by the department with a staff of 92. The department reviews the accounts of each operating
unit throughout the year and prepares between four to five reports, including the year-end financial
statements, which are compiled by the Controller's Department. These reports include the financial audit
of accounts, fund account audit of the sinking and pension funds, a stock and inventory account audit,
an operational audit that reviews implementation of procurement contracts and compliance with
government regulations, and the newly instituted performance audit. The financial audit reports, which
are extensive in coverage, are reviewed by the department primarily for accuracy and compliance with
regulations of the Ministry of Finance. For all inventories, the department carries out test checks on
higher value items to ensure that the provisions are adequate. In 1993, the Deputy Prime Minister
required all state-owned enterprises to undertake regular management performance audits in line with the
Government's policy on divestiture. This audit, which will be conducted by EGAT's Internal Audit
Department in 1995, is a special audit that deals not only with purely financial issues but also with
operational aspects including internal procedures, management audits and efficiency improvement
measures.



-22-
3.21         EGAT's accounts are audited annually by the Office of the Auditor General, the
government agency responsible for auditing all state enterprises. An international accounting firm
(Coopers and Lybrand) also acts as external auditors and has been retained as financial consultant,
cooperating with the Auditor General in issuing EGAT's annual accounts. Audit reports have never been
qualified since EGAT was established. The submission of the reports to the Bank has always been timely
and the performance of the external auditors has been satisfactory. The auditing arrangements are
satisfactory. As provided under previous Bank loans, agreement was reached that EGAT would submit
to the Bank audited financial statements for its mining operations and EGAT as a whole, within six
months of the close of each fiscal year.
Insurance
3.22         EGAT has adequate insurance coverage. Property insurance cover for EGAT is provided
by means of six insurance sinking funds valued as of September 30, 1993 at US$176 million (Baht 4.4
billion), the largest being the Power Plant Fund. These funds provide cover against risks of breakdown,
impact damage, explosion and fire, and special perils. A Good Claims Bonus is paid back to EGAT by
the Power Plant Fund and this is calculated according to a formula which takes into account the overall
size of the fund, the insurance risk and the estimated maximum damage that might occur from any one
incident. The bonus represents 87% of premiums charged to the Power Plant Fund and is an indication
of the ongoing good safety record that EGAT has achieved as well as the fact that the size of the fund
is close to its maximum. Good Claims Bonuses are not paid by any of the other funds. The maximum
size of the fund has been set at $116 million indexed for inflation after September 30, 1990 and is based
on one potential claim of $50 million and two claims of $33 million.
3.23         The annual premiums charged against revenue by the various funds are calculated in a
variety of ways and are in general, below market rates. Premiums paid to the Power Plant Fund,
Aeroplane Fund, and the Personal Accident Fund are calculated according to the method suggested by
the Royal Insurance Service Company Ltd. in its 1983 report. Premiums for the Heavy Equipment Fund
are calculated and charged on assets until they reach half of their useful life, while premiums of the
Vehicle Fund are charged on new assets for only one year. EGAT has also insured certain buildings
through a Building Fund which was set up in 1993. Cover is provided against fire and the premium
charged approximates to a commercial rate. Only buildings which have an indexed depreciated cost of
Baht 10 million and over are covered by this new fund. The insurance arrangements are satisfactory to
the Bank and EGAT would continue to make these provisions.
Taxes
3.24         In accordance with regulations applicable to state enterprises, EGAT is liable to remit to
the Ministry of Finance a proportion of its net income. As advised by the Government's Budget Bureau,
EGAT has been remitting taxes each year since September 30, 1982 at a level which rose from 5% of
net income to the current level of 30%. This is despite the fact that the budget document itself laid down
a rate of 25%. In May 1993, EGAT applied for "Good State Enterprise" status and to qualify, EGAT
needs to comply with a number of criteria, including being able to maintain a net income at a level that
will permit remittance to the Ministry of Finance of 30%. EGAT is expected to become a good state
enterprise in FY95.



-23-
3.25         EGAT pays custom duties and business taxes on imported equipment and materials for
its projects included in the Sixth Development Plan from its own resources. Until the Fifth Development
Plan (1982-1986), custom duties were covered by the Government in the form of equity contributions.






Chapter IV
The Project
A. Project Objectives and Description
4.1        The main objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to assist EGAT in optimizing its
investment decisions and help meet the system's peak power demand from 2000 onwards at least cost;
(b) to strengthen the environmental capabilities of EGAT; and (c) to assist the Government in
rationalizing the bulk supply tariff to PEA and MEA as a prelude to the corporatization and
privatization of the generation, transmission and distribution utilities. In addition, the Bank expects,
during the project's tenure, to continue rendering technical advice to the Government in the
implementation of power sub-sector and environmental reforms.
4.2        The proposed project is the first stage (2x250 MW) of the 1,000 MW Lam Takhong Pump
Storage Scheme. The scheme involves: (a) pumping during off-peak hours of about 9 million cubic
meters (MCM) of water from the existing Lam Takhong reservoir to a new upper level reservoir; and
(b) releasing water into the Lam Takhong reservoir generating about 1,000 MW of power during the
system peak period. The project involves: (a) an upstream reservoir of 10 MCM capacity; (b) water
conduit systems comprising tunnels and penstocks for the full development; (c) an underground power
house for all the four units; (d) 2x250 MW reversible pump-turbine units; (e) an outdoor switchyard; (f)
2x230 kV double-circuit transmission lines of about 15km route length; (g) consulting services for
design and construction supervision; (h) environmental impact mitigation and rehabilitation of affected
persons; (i) computer hardware, software and training for strengthening the environmental capabilities
of EGAT; and (j) a consulting study for rationalization of the bulk supply tariff.
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Scheme
4.3        The Lam Takhong Pump Storage project is located at Khao Khuen Lun, Pak Chong
District, Nakhon Ratchasima Province, about 200 km north-east of Bangkok. The development consists
of the existing Lam Takhong Reservoir situated on the Lam Takhong River, a tributary of the Mun
River which in turn is a tributary of the Mekong River. The Lam Takhong reservoir would be
connected to a new upper reservoir situated on a plateau some 350 m above, by a system of shafts and
tunnels through an underground powerhouse. The powerhouse would contain reversible machines
which, during off peak periods, would utilize excess generating capacity in the system to pump about 9
MCM of water from the lower to the upper reservoir. During peak periods, the operation would be
reversed and stored water would be run down for power generation. The total plant capacity of 1,000
MW (989 Gwh per annum) would be developed in two stages. The first stage comprising 2x250 MW
units and covering most of the civil works is scheduled for commissioning in 2000. The second stage
comprising an additional 2x250 MW units would be commissioned in 2003.
4.4        The main features of the project are:
(a)  an upper reservoir consisting of a rectangular pond with a surface area of 0.3 km2 and a
volume of 9.9 MCM bounded by a rockfill dam and lined with an asphaltic membrane;
the dam has a maximum height of 50 m and a volume of 5.4 MCM;



-25-
(b)  two morning-glory intakes leading to steel lined inclined shafts 6.0 m diameter, 690 m in
length;
(c)   an underground power house containing four reversible Francis type generating/pumping
units, each with an output (while generating) of 250 MW at a rated net head of 360 m.;
(d)  two concrete-lined tailrace tunnels 6.8 m dia., 1,470 m in length.
4.5        Optimization. The optimization of the power plant configuration and capacity was carried
out by consultants in two phases. The first phase determined the upper reservoir location and waterway
route.  Of two possible locations for the upper reservoir, the one which avoided relocation of
inhabitants and Class IA forest land, and which also proved to be the most economical, was chosen.
For this location, the least cost alternative, among three alternative waterways, was selected. The
second phase determined the optimum ultimate size of the plant, in terms of generating capacity and
daily operating hours as limited by reservoir storage. Five alternative capacities between 500 MW to
1,200 MW and reservoir capacities between 4 to 14 hour generation (in two hour increments) were
considered. A development with 1,000 MW and a reservoir capacity equal to 8 hour generation gave
the maximum benefit/cost ratio. System studies indicated that pumping rate should be limited to 500
MW, at least in the early stages, to maintain system stability; hence an installation with 4x250 MW
units was decided upon as the optimum solution. The reservoir filling time with two units running is
about 20 hours.
4.6         Site Investigations. The geological assessment of the site is based on comprehensive site
investigations and laboratory tests, which over the course of the feasibility and final design stages have
included the following activities: (a) seismic refraction over the reservoir site over four lines totalling
3,600 m; test pitting, soil sampling and laboratory testing of soils; (b) diamond drilling totalling 3,172
m in 28 holes; testing in drill-holes including 310 permeability tests, 96 deformation tests, 33 hydraulic
fracturing tests and P-S wave logging at 294 m; and (c) an exploratory adit to the powerhouse and
along its axis with a total length of 1,533 m; testing in the adit including convergence measurement,
plate bearing test and P-S prospecting along its walls.
4.7        Geology. The geology of the plateau on which the upper reservoir is founded, and in
which the underground works are located, consists of alternations of flat bedded coarse and fine grained
sandstones and siltstones with thin layers of claystone. The penstock from the reservoir floor passes
through a 60 m thickness of coarse grained sandstone, 150 m of alternations of fine grained sandstone
and siltstone, and 215 m of siltstone ending in fine grained sandstone. The sandstones are hard,
generally massive, relatively strong (60 MPa) and have a relatively low deformation modulus. While
they are generally of low permeability, there are occasional high permeability areas, coinciding with
strongly jointed zones, particularly in the coarse grained rock. The siltstone is massive, softer, weaker
(10 to 30 Mpa), and highly deformable. On the other hand, jointing is generally infrequent and
permeability low. Weathering over the site is highly developed for a depth of 20 m although slight
weathering persists to depths of over 70 m. No major faulting has been detected, although shear zones
running parallel to the bedding planes are evident in the drill cores.
4.8        Design Aspects. The engineering implications of the above and the design measures
necessary to deal with them, as agreed among EGAT design engineers, the consultants and the
International Board of Experts (para. 4.16), are summarized below:



-26-
(a)   Upper reservoir. The rock is suitable as a foundation for the proposed embankment dam.
Permeability is such that an asphaltic membrane liner and drainage beneath the liner will
be provided. Excavated rock and soil are suitable for incorporation in the dam.
(b)   Tunnels. Tunneling conditions are expected to be generally good; however occasional
high water inflows are expected and would be allowed for. Silltstone would be protected
immediately after excavation to prevent slaking. Shotcrete and occasional bolting would
suffice as temporary support. The inclined shaft will be continuous and driven full face
from the top which is slower but less risky in terms of safety and construction progress. In
view of the softness of the silltstone and its tendency to weather, the pressure tunnel will
be steel lined but the design will take rock sharing into account.
(c)   Underground powerhouse. The major concern is the high deformability of the rock which
in conjunction with the high insitu stresses due to overburden depth could result in long
term convergence of the walls of the cavern. Measures adopted to deal with this problem
were: (a) orientation of the longitudinal axis of the cavern parallel to the direction of
maximum horizontal stress; (b) lowering of the cavern about 35 m so that it is situated
largely in fine grained sandstone, the most competent of the strata encountered; and (c)
detailed specification of cavern excavation and support measures to control deformations.
International Waterway
4.9        The Lam Takhong reservoir (which serves the municipal and irrigation water needs of the
downstream communities in the province of Nakhon Ratchasima) is an existing reservoir in the
headwaters of the Lam Takhong River. The Lam Takhong River is an upstream tributary of the Mun
River, which in turn is a tributary of the Mekong River, an international waterway. While the Mun
River contributes about 17% of the flow of the Mekong River, the Lam Takhong River contributes only
about 1 % of the flow of the Mun River. The project involves pumping out during off-peak hours of
only about 3 % of the reservoir volume, but the same quantum of water is restored to the reservoir dur-
ing the peak period. The small amount (40,000 cum/annum) of water that would be utilized for drip
irrigation from the uphill reservoir would be more than compensated by the decrease in evaporation
(estimated at 700,000 cum/annum) due to reduced surface area exposure of the lower reservoir. There
would thus be no net deprivation of water from the Lam Takhong reservoir nor any effect on the water
quality due to the project. The outflow of water from the Lam Takhong reservoir would continue to be
governed by the downstream water needs and not by the system's generation requirements. The impact
on the flow of the Lam Takhong River would thus be insignificant and the impact on the flow of the
Mun and Mekong rivers would be imperceptible.
4.10       The downstream riparian states are Lao PDR, Cambodia and Viet Nam. Together with
Thailand, these countries are members of the Mekong Committee, established in 1957 by them as an
autonomous inter-governmental agency to promote, coordinate, supervise and control the planning,
investigation and implementation of water resources development projects on the lower Mekong basin
(including international projects on the Mekong River as well as national projects on tributaries). The
Mekong Committee was suspended in 1991 and has apparently not functioned since that date.
However, recently, representatives of Thailand, Viet Nam, Cambodia and Lao PDR have pledged to
establish a new framework of cooperation for the sustainable development of the Mekong River Basin.
As far as the Bank has been able to ascertain, that framework has not yet been formally established.
The three downstream riparian states (Lao PDR, Cambodia and Viet Nam) were notified on December



-27-
15, 1994 of the project by the Bank, through their Executive Directors and were given until February
28, 1995 to respond. No communication was received from Lao PDR and Cambodia by the stipulated
time. Viet Nam asked for more information for studying the project and wanted to be assured that
Thailand would notify this project to the newly constituted Mekong Committee at its first meeting in
April 1995. Full details of the project were provided by the Bank to the Vietnamese on March 14,
1995 together with written assurances from EGAT that Thailand would indeed notify the project to the
Mekong Committee. No further communication was received from Viet Nam by the subsequently
established stipulated date of April 3, 1995.  As none of the downstream riparians have raised
objections to the project and in view of the Bank's staff assessment that the project will neither cause
harm to the interests of the other riparians, nor be harmed by other riparians' possible water use, it was
decided to proceed with the processing of the project.
Strengthening the Environmental Capabilities of EGAT
4.11       In 1993, EGAT uplifted its Ecology and Environment Division to departmental level as
Environmental Department (ED) under the Deputy General Manager, Engineering. It sought and
received substantial technical assistance from the Australian International Development Assistance
Bureau (AIDAB) in strengthening the management, planning and implementation capabilities of the ED.
A long-term AIDAB Environmental Planning Adviser has been working with the ED since February
1994. A Project for Strengthening the Environmental Capabilities of EGAT (a 4-year program with a
budget estimate of A$5.5 million) has been formulated for possible financing by AIDAB. The key
components of this Project are:
(a)   Environmental Management System. Technical assistance to continue to strengthen and
develop EGAT's environmental management systems to the standard of "best practice
environmental management".
(b)   Specialist Environmental, Operational Management and Technical Advice and Assistance.
High quality, tailored, specialist advice and implementation assistance in each of the
environmental, operational management and technical areas identified, to strengthen
EGAT's environmental performance and environmental infrastructure.
(c)   Environmental Training and Education. Specialist environmental training and education
essential to the sustainable strengthening of EGAT's environmental skills, capabilities and
performance.
(d)   Environmental Equipment Facilities.  Specification, acquisition and use of additional
environmental sampling, monitoring and analysis equipment needed to ensure that there
are no infrastructural impediments to sustainably strengthening EGAT's environmental
performance.
4.12       Under the proposed project, EGAT would undertake the development of an Integrated
Environmental Information Management System (EIMS) package, the objective of which would be to
accept, manage, analyze and structure different sources and types of information required for
environmental studies and analyses, for engineering site construction referencing, for identifying
corporate positions and for generating other relevant data. The EIMS would have the following
components:



-28-
(a)   Database.   This will comprise inter-connected graphics and attribute databases. The
latter will be a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) for the storage,
management and maintenance of attribute information. The graphics database will be an
interactive, flexible, user-friendly, Computer-Aided-Drafting/Design (CADD) engine for
the storage and maintenance of maps, drawings, airphotos, documentation images, etc.
(b)   Interface.    The interface would provide user screens to accept different types of
information and provide efficient search techniques to extract required information,
graphics, etc.
(c)   Inputs and Outputs. Inputs would be handled by a variety of application modules, directly
interfacing with the environment database.  Inputs would include scanned, digitized,
survey, photogrammetric, remote sensing, digital data, textual information, etc.  The
EIMS will support several devices for data output, including those for producing high
quality maps, reports, technical publications, image management systems and video
outputs.
(d)   Application. The EIMS system would provide access to the same database for different
purposes, through online viewing. Access to specialized applications would be provided
by the system with the automatic linkages to the attribute and graphics databases.
Examples of application would be: CADD, spatial analysis, planning, image analysis,
terrain modelling, engineering database, business applications, scanning and imaging, etc.
4.13       A  feasibility study with consulting assistance would be undertaken to define the
requirements, the scope, the recommended hardware and software packages (GIS, CADD, RDBMS,
etc.), the interface strategy and an effective implementation plan. The feasibility study would include
detailed description of system components, data flow diagrams, application models, communications
requirements, database diagrams, capacities and features within each major component, as well as
equipment specifications. Provision would be made for technical transfer and training of EGAT
personnel on the installation, maintenance and application of the EIMS system.
Rationalization of Bulk Supply Tariff to MEA and PEA
4.14       MEA and PEA receive power from EGAT in bulk at several of their grid substations.
The bulk supply tariff to MEA and PEA as currently applied comprises a flat energy charge. Without
a demand charge or a variation depending on time of use, the tariff does not reflect the costs of supply,
and is, therefore, inadequate to give correct signals to the distribution utilities to improve their load
factor, load shape and power factor or foster energy conservation. The bulk supply tariffs to MEA and
PEA are set by the Government, taking into account the financial needs of the three utilities. The
current tariff for bulk supply to MEA is 1.47 Baht/kwh, whereas the tariff to PEA is 0.96 Baht/kwh,
although the actual cost of supply to PEA is greater than the cost of supply to MEA. The difference in
the tariff to the two utilities, MEA and PEA, is intentional, so that the urban consumers subsidize the
rural consumers, the retail tariff for all consumers in Thailand being uniform. The current bulk supply
arrangements between EGAT and MEA/PEA would no longer be appropriate when the electricity sector
is restructured; EGAT, MEA and PEA are corporatized; and IPPs begin to function on the grid. New
bulk supply arrangements would need to be evolved. If a subsidy needs to be provided for electrifying
rural consumers, it may have to be provided through a separate transparent mechanism. Likewise, the
Government would also need to consider abolishing uniform retail tariffs throughout the country. At



-29-
negotiations, agreement was reached that EGAT would undertake a study for the rationalization of the
bulk supply tariff, according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and promptly thereafter, the
Government will review with the Bank the recommendations of that study and implement the said
recommendations taking into account the Bank's views. Terms of reference for the study are at Annex
10.
B. Implementation
4.15       Design and Supervision Arrangements. The project design would be undertaken jointly by
EGAT and the consultants, EPDC of Japan. EGAT would carry out the civil designs, including
drawings and technical specifications under the supervision of the consultants. The consultants would
develop the technical specifications for the mechanical and electrical equipment. The terms of reference
for the consulting services are acceptable to the Bank.  The construction organization would be
modelled on the lines of the Pak Mun Hydropower project which was recently completed on schedule.
A Project Implementation Plan, following the Bank guidelines, has been prepared by EGAT (Annex
24). The organizational arrangements for design and construction of the Lam Takhong Pump Storage
project and implementing its environmental and rehabilitation plans are shown in Charts 2, 3 and 4,
respectively. A project team has been set up and a project manager appointed by EGAT for project
construction. The functions of the "Engineer" as defined by the FIDIC conditions of contract would be
assigned to EPDC, although in keeping with its normal practice, EGAT would maintain strong financial
control.
4.16       Review Arrangements. An International Board of Experts (IBE), has been appointed to
review dam safety aspects of the design and construction of the upper reservoir, and to advise on design
and construction aspects of all other elements of the project. The IBE consists of internationally
recognized experts, with wide experience in engineering geology, rock mechanics and underground
opening design; and design and construction of dams and hydroelectric structures. Interaction between
EGAT engineers, the consultants and the IBE has been particularly synergetic, resulting in innovative,
affordable design responses to the particular challenges of the project. The bid documents for the
Electromechanical Equipment would be furnished to the Bank.  The implementation of the
environmental and rehabilitation plans would be periodically reviewed by the independent
Environmental Panel member appointed by the Bank.
4.17       Implementation Schedule: A summary implementation schedule is shown in Chart 5.
The critical path for implementation of the project passes through the construction of the main access
tunnel to the powerhouse, powerhouse cavern excavation and generating equipment erection. With this
in mind, EGAT has called for bids on a limited invitation basis for access tunnel construction to be
financed by EGAT.  Nine well qualified contractors, two local and seven international presently
working in Thailand, have been invited to bid.  Construction of this access tunnel would allow
construction time from award of main civil contract to award of first generating unit to be reduced to 52
months. Bids for main civil and generating equipment contracts are scheduled to be invited in March
1995, contracts awarded in October 1995, with unit commissionings in February and May, 2000.
4.18       Operations. EGAT has defined organization and procedures for dealing with dam safety
dating since 1982, when it issued Dam Safety Regulation for controlling the safety of its dams. The



-30-
Civil Maintenance Department has been given the responsibility for dam safety and this organization has
developed procedures based on the SEED manual published by the Water and Power Resources Service,
U.S. Department of Interior. They provide for inspections by an 11 member Dam Inspection Team, in
accordance with a schedule determined by dam height, and following a defined checklist. They also
specify routine dam safety measures to be implemented by dam operators and regional superintendents.
These procedures have been satisfactorily implemented for EGAT's 13 existing large dams.  At
negotiations, agreement was reached that EGAT would, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
cause the upper reservoir dam to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering
practice in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of this structure, or in
the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same, which may endanger its
safety.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.19       Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in terms of physical
execution and financial reports have been agreed with EGAT which would furnish quarterly progress
reports. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be drafted by the Bank not later than six
months after completion of the loan and EGAT would assist in its preparation. EGAT would adopt the
plan for the operational phase of the project and together with the Bank, define the performance
indicators to be used to monitor operations and development impact. EGAT would also prepare and
make available to the Bank its own evaluation report, including a summary report which would be
attached unedited to the ICR. The evaluation would assess the project execution and initial operation,
its costs and benefits, the Bank's performance, its own performance of the obligations under the Loan
Agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the loan were achieved.
Supervision Plan
4.20       Supervision of this project would be undertaken along with the Bank's ongoing power
projects in Thailand. The key issues that would be focused upon are: (a) periodic reviews of EGAT's
power development plan in keeping with changes in the economic scenario; (b) monitoring of
compliance with financial covenants to assure the financial health of EGAT while undertaking a large
investment program; (c) close monitoring of the implementation of the environmental impact mitigation
and rehabilitation plans for the project; and (d) adequate technical supervision for the dam and
associated civil works. The Bank missions would also assist EGAT and the Government in their efforts
towards privatization and energy conservation and provide advice on environmental issues. Supervision
of the project would require expertise in hydropower engineering, economics, financial analysis,
environmental engineering and rehabilitation and compensation. Two missions annually for a period of
four years are foreseen for adequate supervision of this project. The total estimated staff inputs are: (a)
power engineer, economist and financial analyst -- 8 staff-weeks (on the basis of sharing with other
EGAT projects); (b) hydropower engineer -- 8 staff-weeks; (c) environmental specialist -- 6 staff-
weeks; and (d) rehabilitation expert -- 6 staff-weeks.



-31-
C. Cost Estimates
4.21         The total cost of the project (including capitalized interest during construction) is estimated
at US$585.6 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$308.4 million. For civil works, direct
cost unit rates were developed from basic resource costs for all major items, with separate estimates for
general site installations and general site services. Metalworks costs were derived from prevailing
international market rates in recent bids. Electro-mechanical costs were derived taking into account
experience curves and manufacturers' budget prices. Physical contingencies are assumed at 10% of the
base cost for preliminary works, civil works and environmental and rehabilitation plans and 5%  of the
base cost for plant and equipment. Price contingencies are estimated on the basis of escalation factors
of 5 % per annum for local cost components and 2.5 % per annum for foreign cost components,
following the Bank's latest forecast. Table 4.1 summarizes the cost estimates for the project which are
given in greater detail in Annex 11.
Table 4.1: COST ESTIMATE /a
Local      Foreign  I   Total       Local     Foreign  I Total   Foreign
(Baht million)                   (US$ mitlon) /b        |   Tof
Preliminary Works              186.0         0.0        186.0        7.5         0.0      7.5        0.0
Environmental Mitigation       184.6         0.0        184.6        7.4         0.0      7.4        0.0
Civil Works                   1,270.0    2,965.0      4,235.0       50.8       118.6    169.4       70.0
Hydraulic Equipment            401.0       804.0      1,205.0       16.0        32.2     48.2       66.8
Electromech. Equipment         344.5     2,060.3      2,404.8       13.8        82.4     96.2       85.7
Transmission System             83.3       460.9        544.2        3.3        18.4     21.7       84.8
Environmental Equipment          0.0        17.5         17.5        0.0         0.7      0.7       100
Consulting Services
Project Management             74.6      334.7        409.3         3.0        13.4     16.4      81.7
Tariff Study                    0.0        5.0          5.0         0.0        0.2       0.2       100
Administration                 259.9         0.0        259.9       10.4         0.0     10.4        0.0
Duties and Taxes               450.9         0.0       450.9        18.0         0.0     18.0        0.0
Base Cost                     3,254.8 J   6,647.4 J    9,902.2 J   130.2       266.0 J   396.2      67.1
Physical Contingencies         309.0       556.9       865.9        12.4        22.3     34.7       64.2
Price Contingencies      |     611.2       505.7      1,116.9       24.4        20.2     44.6       45.3
Total Project Cost           4,175.0     7,710.0     11,885.0      167.0       308.4    475.4 [    64.7
I.D.C.                   |   2,755.0|        0.0]     2,755.0       110.2 |      0.0    110.2 |     0.0
Total Financing Required      6,930.0    7,710.0]    14,640.0      277.2       308.4    585.6 |      1.6
/a December 1994 price levels.
lb Exchange rate US$1 = Baht 25.0



-32-
D. Financing Plan
4.22       The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 4.2. The proposed Bank loan of
US$100 million equivalent would meet about 33% of the foreign cost of the project (excluding IDC) or
17% of project financing requirements. The proposed Bank loan would be made to EGAT at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 17 year term including five years of grace on repayment of
principal. Cofinancing from OECF of Japan, in the amount of about US$184 million, would cover
electromechanical equipment, hydraulic equipment and consulting services. Supplier's credits and
foreign commercial bank loans would be used to finance the foreign costs (aggregating US$24.4
million) of ancillary equipment. Local costs amounting to US$277.2 million equivalent would be
financed from EGAT's internal cash generation supplemented by local borrowing. EGAT would bear
the foreign exchange and interest rate risks; the loan would be guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Local                Foreign                Total
IBRD                                                100.0                100.0
OECF                                                184.0                184.0
Foreign Commercial Banks                            24.4                  24.4
and Supplier's Credits
EGAT/Local Borrowing          277.2                 0.0                  277.2
Total                        277.2                 308.4                 585.6
E. Procurement
4.23       Almost 99% of the Bank loan would be used for financing the major civil works for the
project. Bids would be invited using international competitive bidding procedures (ICB) according to
the Bank guidelines, through a single contract package worth about US$203 million equivalent. Bidders
have already been prequalified to bid for this package, using prequalification documents and procedures
approved by the Bank. EGAT would follow the Bank's standard procurement documents in preparing
the bid documents. The contract would allow for price variation for parameters agreed with the Bank.
Environmental equipment, essentially comprising specialized software and hardware, worth about
US$0.75 million equivalent would be procured through Limited International Bidding or International
Shopping procedures following the Bank guidelines.  Consulting services for the Tariff study,
amounting to about US$0.25 million equivalent, would be procured following the Bank guidelines for
selection and employment of consultants. Bid documents and contract awards with respect to each
Bank-financed contract, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2.0 million or more, would be subject to
prior review and approval by the Bank.
4.24       The main electromechanical equipment would be procured through international
competitive bidding procedures specified by the OECF of Japan. Contracts for ancillary equipment
would be obtained through EGAT's own international competitive bidding procedures which are similar
to those of the Bank. Contracts for preparatory civil works would be let out by EGAT through local



-33-
competitive bidding procedures that are acceptable to the Bank. Consultants for project design and
supervision have been appointed by EGAT and the consultancy arrangements are satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.25          Annex 12 presents the Key Date Schedule for procurement, while Annex 13 gives details
of the eight procurement packages (excluding environmental equipment) for the project.
4.26          Table 4.3 summarizes the procurement arrangements for the components expected to be
financed out of the proposed Bank loan.
Table 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ million)
Project                              Procurement Method            |       Total
Component                        ICB          Others Lb     NBF /c            Cost
Works
Upper Pond, Water Way, Power House           203.5                                        203.3
(99.0) /a                                    (99.0)
Other works                                                                9.0              9.0
Goods
Hydraulic Equipment /d                                                     57.8            57.8
Electromech. Equipment /d                                                 115.4            115.4
Transmission System  /d                                                    26.0            26.0
Environmental Equipment                                       0.75                         0.75
(0.75)                      (0.75)
Consulting Services
Project Management /d                                                      19.7            19.7
Tariff Study                                                  0.25                         0.25
(0.25)                      (0.25)
Miscellaneous
Environmental Mitigation                                                   9.0             9.0
Administration                                                             12.5            12.5
Duties and Taxes                                                          21.5             21.5
203.5           1.0         270.9   1       475.4
Total                                       (99.0)          (1.0)        (0.0)          (100.0)
Notes: /a Figures in parenthesis refer to amounts to be financed from the Bank loan.
/b Others - Procurement through Limited International Bidding or International Shopping and
procurement of consulting services.
/c NBF - Not Bank Financed.
/d Financed by OECF.



-34-
F. Disbursements
4.27       The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 50% of expenditures for civil works; (b)
100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 50% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally, for goods and equipment; and (c) 100% for consulting
services. As there would be only about three contracts, Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures
would not be followed nor would a Special Account be opened. However, EGAT will ensure that each
withdrawal application will not be less than US$100,000 equivalent.
4.28       Annex 14 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan and the standard
profile of disbursements for power projects in Asia. Based on experience with the last two Bank loans
to EGAT (Loans 3138-TH and 3243-TH), the advanced stage of preparation by EGAT for the project,
and considering that there is only one major contract financed by the Bank, the proposed loan is
expected to be disbursed faster than indicated by the standard profile. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 2000 and the closing date for the loan would be December 31, 2000.
4.29       Retroactive financing equivalent to about 3% of the proposed loan would be permitted to
the extent of US$250,000 equivalent for payments made for expenditures on consulting services for the
Tariff Study, prior to the date of the Project Agreement but after August 4, 1994. This is necessary as
the Government would like this study to be carried out as early as possible as it would like to introduce
tariff reforms this year and in order to meet its privatization program for the power sub-sector.






CHAPTER V
Environmental Aspects
A. Environmental Impact Evaluation and Approval
5.1        The project falls under Category A and its environmental impacts have been adequately
identified through a detailed EIA undertaken by the Khon Kaen University.  The EIA and the
supplementary documentation developed by EGAT has undergone the newly constituted review process
involving the Office of Environmental Policy and Planning (OEPP) (including review by an
Environmental Expert Committee having NGO representation) and the National Environmental Board,
and the project and the EIA have been approved by the National Economic and Social Development
Board and by the Cabinet. The people in the district have been informed about the project through
seminars and the affected villagers have been fully involved in designing the rehabilitation program.
The OEPP has finalized and published a detailed "Implementation Plan - Environmental Mitigation and
Development", January 1994 (EMDP), which inter-alia calls for the appointment of a coordinating and
supervisory committee, named the Committee for the Coordination of Assistance to the Affected People
and Environmental Development, comprising representatives from all concerned departments and
agencies, from local and provincial administrations, and from affected people; and assigns the role of
monitoring and evaluation to the Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment. There has been
close interaction between EGAT, the Bank missions and the Environmental Expert appointed by the
Bank, and the Bank requirements supplementing the EMDP have been agreed with and documented by
EGAT in the "August 1994, Addendum to the Implementation Plan, Environmental Mitigation and
Development".  The EMDP, adopted by the Government on February 15, 1994, sets forth the
requirements for managing the environmental protection of all land and river areas affected by the
project, and for rehabilitating affected persons. The August 1994 Addendum to the aforementioned
document amplifies the modalities and procedures for rehabilitating and compensating all persons whose
livelihood is to be affected by the project, and details the necessary actions for implementing and
performance indicators for monitoring. The two documents together form the plan for implementing
the environmental mitigation and development and rehabilitation required under the project. Annex 24
lists the environmental documentation on the project.  The environmental impact mitigation and
rehabilitation plans are satisfactory to the Bank. At negotiations, it was agreed that EGAT would carry
out the Environmental Impact Mitigation and Rehabilitation Plans as set forth in the documents: (a)
Implementation Plan - Environmental Mitigation and Development, January 1994, by OEPP; and (b)
August 1994, Addendum to the Implementation Plan, Environmental Mitigation and Development, by
EGAT, including provision of necessary budget, appointment of committees for managing and
supervising implementation and agencies for monitoring and evaluation.
B. Enviromnental Impact and Impact Mitigation
Base Line Data
5.2        Baseline data, developed by Khon Kaen University (KKU) during an 18-month (August
1990 to February 1992) environmental assessment study and by several subsequent investigations by
EGAT and KKU, are briefly summarized below:



-36-
(a)   The Lam Takhong Reservoir has been in operation since 1968. Reservoir fisheries yield
approximately 95 tons/year of fish valued at Baht 2.5 million for an estimated 100 part-
time fishermen and 3 full-time fishermen.  These yields occur with only occasional
stocking and with no other enhancement measures other than Government regulations on
fishing methods and seasons.
(b)   The 22 ha that would be required for spoil disposal extend from the existing highway into
the shallow edge of the Lam Takhong reservoir. This area would be an extension of the
existing highway grade, is not inhabited and includes no notable vegetation.
(c)   The 218 ha upper reservoir area is located on land that is included in watershed Class lB.
Some of the underground structures will be located well beneath, and would not impinge
on, land that is classified as watershed Class IA.
(d)   Land use of the upper reservoir area would include 59 ha of forest plantation area and 159
ha of agricultural land.  The agricultural land comprises grassland and fallow land,
cultivated land, degraded forest land and others. There is no irrigation. Crops cultivated
in the area include mango, cashew, jackfruit, cassava and others.
Potential Environmental Impacts
5.3         Potential adverse impacts of the project have been under systematic investigation and
review  by KKU, EGAT  and concerned environmental authorities since August 1990.   Field
investigations included searches of all areas affected by the project for rare and endangered species, rare
or unique ecological communities and archaeological materials, but none of these items were found.
The project does not pose any impacts of a nature that cannot be eliminated, minimized to acceptable
levels or mitigated through project design, location and operation and it is unlikely to result in
significant residual impacts. Notable project impacts are given below:
(a)   Land. The main impact of the project would be caused by the construction of the upper
reservoir and would include: (i) displacement of 59 ha of established forest plantations; (ii)
loss of access to 218 ha area during the construction stage; (iii) permanent loss of access
to 65 ha which will become the upper reservoir and ancillary areas; (iv) changes in soil
characteristics due to excavation, spoil disposal and regrading; and (v) associated losses of
agricultural produce and income.
(b)   Fisheries. The main impact on fisheries is expected to be increased mortality of fish
through entrainment and exposure to high pressure in the penstocks during pumping.
Phytoplankton and zooplankton mortality due to entrainment is not likely to be significant.
(c)   Downstream Water Users. There is concern among downstream users that construction
and operation of the project would result in losses of water, or constraints on reservoir
operation, that will affect the availability of water to downstream users. However, this
concern is not justified as: (i) the pump storage project will recycle water, not consume it;
and (ii) rules for reservoir operation will give priority to downstream users.
(d)   Sedimentation. Resuspension of sediment as a result of pumping and power generation is
not likely to cause significant ecological impacts on the Lam Takhong reservoir or to



-37-
increase the amount of sediment that is entrained by the intakes for the downstream water
supply. Hydrographic studies conclude that about 370 years would be required for the
volume of sediment deposition to equal the volume of dead storage. By that time the live
storage capacity of the reservoir would have been reduced by about 34%.
(e)   Construction. Other impacts would be typical of any large construction projects such as
impacts of the construction labor force, truck traffic, erosion, air and water pollution,
noise and public health.
Environmental Impact Mitigation Plans
General
5.4        The mitigation measures for environmental impacts are embodied in the EMDP and
include:
(a)   Plan for environmental mitigation and development during construction:
(i)   Prevention of soil erosion
(ii)  Control and prevention of sediment dispersion in the reservoir
(iii)  Prevention of air pollution, noise and vibration
(iv)  Mitigation and development of traffic system
(v)   Preparation for hygiene at the construction site
(b)   Plan for environmental mitigation and development after construction:
(i)   Environmental rehabilitation and development in the project site including
reforestation of 1,230 ha of the most degraded forest in the Khao Tien-Khao
Khuanlon Reserved Forest Area
(ii)  Fishery resource conservation in the Lam Takhong reservoir
(iii)  Water resource management
5.5        The plan for controlling and offsetting fish mortality from entrainment includes: (a) a net
around the intake structure with 0.5 cm mesh size; (b) fish breeding and releasing including a fish
hatchery, nursery ponds, floating nets and fish cages; (c) fishery resources conservation including the
protection of spawning areas and reduction of illegal fishing; and (d) continued monitoring of reservoir
limnology and fisheries.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.6        The EMDP includes a monitoring plan which comprises the following:
(a)   Plan for monitoring and evaluating the forest rehabilitation
(b)   Plan for monitoring and evaluating of the aquatic biology and fishery in the Lam Takhong
reservoir
(c)   Plan for monitoring and evaluating of the water resources management



-38-
5.7        The plan for monitoring and evaluation of water resources management is intended to
alleviate the concerns of downstream users by having OEPP and the Royal Irrigation Department: (a)
collect and compile necessary data for the continuous management of Lam Takhong water resources;
and (b) conduct regular compilation and analysis of data for the future adaptation of water resource.
The project cost estimate includes funding for this monitoring and evaluation for the first six years after
the start of project operations.
Budget
5.8        A  total budget provision of Baht 87.7 million has been made for mitigation of
environmental impacts (see Annex 15 for details).
C. Rehabilitation
Scope of Rehabilitation
5.9        The construction of the upper reservoir requires acquisition of 26 ha of land, in 74
parcels, belonging to 72 owners. 43 of the owners reside at the Khoa Yai Tiang village while 29
owners reside in villages of different sub-districts or districts of Nakhon Ratchasima or different
provinces. Houses of none of these owners will be affected by the project and hence no resettlement of
persons will be involved. In addition to those whose lands would be affected, some 100 families fishing
in the lower reservoir may be affected. A study to determine the precise impact on the income levels of
the fishing families is currently underway.
Socio-Economic Survey
5.10       The socio-economic features of the community affected by the project have been studied
by the Khon Khaen University. Most of the affected families partially rely on agriculture for income.
Agriculture is of the rainfed type and therefore the affected people supplement income from agriculture
by pursuing non-farm activities such as animal rearing, wage labor etc. Almost 42% of their annual
income is derived from earnings of those family members who temporarily work outside the area. The
annual average income per family is estimated at Baht 40,910 and the median income at Baht 38,640.
The average annual agricultural income from land required for the project is estimated at Baht 16,500.
Rehabilitation Strategy
5.11       The basic principle governing economic rehabilitation of the affected people would be that
"living conditions and quality of life of the affected people should improve". Compensation for the
affected land and properties would be paid at a rate which is equivalent to the replacement value of the
assets lost. In order to achieve the rehabilitation objective, a mix of land based and non-land based
economic rehabilitation is proposed. Apart from arrangements for long term rehabilitation, short term
measures to supplement income during the transition phase are also proposed. The affected persons
would be: (a) provided replacement value of compensation for the assets lost; (b) allocated 0.8 ha of
land per household for horticulture; (c) provided with cash support for the first four years after land
acquisition; (d) given loans for initiation of preferred economic activities; and (e) given grazing rights



-39-
over the forest area in the vicinity of the project. The implementation of the rehabilitation program has
been divided into four distinct phases: (a) before construction; (b) during construction; (c) after
construction; and (d) monitoring and evaluation.
Framework for Rehabilitation
5.12        A detailed rehabilitation policy has been framed by EGAT specifically for the Lam
Takhong Project. The policy, which has been designed with the active participation of the affected
people, will be implemented by a committee composed of representatives of EGAT, local officials and
peoples' representatives. The Implementation Plan - Environmental Mitigation and Development,
January 1994, approved by OEPP and the August 1994 Addendum to the Implementation Plan,
Environmental Mitigation and Development, by EGAT provide the rehabilitation framework for
implementation. The following is the list of measures which would assist the affected persons improve
their existing standards of living:
(a)   compensation for land at a rate of Baht 103,000/ha;
(b)   compensation for 18 species of fruit trees at varying rates;
(c)   improvement of the living conditions in the affected villages before the project starts,
through: (i) repair (lining) of an existing weir to improve dry season water supply; (ii)
allocation of budget to village development funds; (iii) establishment of village medicine
funds; (iv) support of educational activities; (v) support of religious activities at the end of
construction; and (vi) resurfacing of the 5 km road to the village with asphalt paving;
(d)   establishment of cooperatives;
(e)  loaning of up to Baht 250,000 per family through the agricultural cooperatives, for animal
farming;
(f)   granting of Baht 2,000 per month for four years to the holder of each of the 74 land
parcels for animal farming or other initiatives;
(g)   making available 1,696 ha of adjacent reserve forest for grazing;
(h)   providing occupational training including EGAT-financed training, at the non-formal
Education Center in Nakhon Ratchasima, in industrial skills, construction skills, general
agriculture, weaving, dress making and tailoring;
(i)   encouraging employment of affected villagers by contractors;
(j)   providing 0.8 ha to the holder of each of the aforementioned 74 land parcels for
development of fruit trees;
(k)   providing nursery stock to establish orchards on 0.8 ha parcels;
(1)   subsidizing the planting of the nursery stock and the maintenance of the orchards until
they bear fruit (fifth to tenth years after the start of construction);



-40-
(m)  providing 40,000 m3/yr of water and a drip irrigation system for starting the orchards;
(n)   providing a 12.8 ha community forest plantation; and
(o)   employing affected persons to carry out the reforestation of 1,230 ha in the Khao Tien -
Khao Khuanlan Reserved Forest Area.
Organizational Arrangements
5.13       The coordination and supervision of the implementation of the rehabilitation program
would be carried out by " The Committee for Consideration of Assistance to the Affected People and
Environmental Development". This committee, chaired by the Governor of Nakhon Ratchasima,
consists of members from EGAT, the local governments of the concerned districts, the various
departments involved in implementation of the rehabilitation program and representatives of the affected
people. To facilitate the process of implementation of the rehabilitation plans, the following sub-
committees have been formed:
(a)   Sub-committee for Property Survey.
(b)   Sub-committee for Inspection and Remittance of Compensation.
(c)   Sub-committee for Public Relations.
(d)   Sub-committee for Quality of Life Development and Occupational Promotion.
5.14       The apex committee would make the decisions related to compensation and rehabilitation
with the participation of the affected people and local officials. The budgetary implication of these
decisions would be borne by EGAT which would allocate the required funds to the respective
departments responsible for implementing specific programs.
Grievance Redressal
5.15       Since the process of rehabilitation planming has been carried out with the full participation
of the affected people, there are not likely to be many instances of serious grievances during
implementation.  However, in order to ensure that the rehabilitation program is implemented as
designed and approved by the affected people, the apex committee will have representatives from the
affected community. Aggrieved persons could apply to the respective committee dealing with the issue
and the matter will be decided on merit. An affected person dissatisfied by the decision of this
committee, could appeal to the apex committee headed by the provincial governor.
Participation
5.16       EGAT and the local government initiated the process of participation of the affected people
for planning the rehabilitation program. A "village development committee" was formed almost a year
before the project was given the final official approval, for discussing the various components of the
rehabilitation program. A number of community development programs and infrastructure development
programs were finalized based on these discussions. The various elements of the rehabilitation program
have emerged from this regular, sustained and participatory process of decision making.



-41-
Budget and Timetable
5.17       A detailed budget and the agencies responsible for implementing the program are given in
Annex 15. A budgetary breakdown is given below:
Name of Plan                           Budget in million Baht
a. Public Relations Plan:                          10.00
b. Compensation Plan:                              42.00
c. Quality of Life Development Plan                21.65
d. Plan for establishment of cooperatives          24.43
e. Occupational Promotional Plan                   23.87
f. Land Allocation Plan                             7.00
g. Socio-economic monitoring Plan                   2.50
Total                                        131.45
5.18       Adequate provision has been made for contingency funds in the main Lam Takhong
Project. If any of the rehabilitation programs require greater funds than originally anticipated, the
contingency funds from the main project would be drawn upon for the purpose.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.19       The rehabilitation plans would be monitored both internally and externally. Internal
monitoring would be done by the apex provincial committee and the Lam Takhong project office in
EGAT.  Progress in implementing various components would be reported to the Office of
Environmental Policy and Planning and to the office of the National Economic and Social Development
Board.  These organizations would monitor and evaluate the progress through periodic reports
submitted by the project office and through regular field visits. Monitoring of the rehabilitation
program would include, inter alia, payment of compensation, providing membership to affected persons
in cooperatives, allocation of land, income levels of rehabilitated persons and employment of affected
persons in various activities.
D. Transmission Lines
5.20       Environmental investigation of the transmission lines covered by the project (Phase I) was
completed by Khon Kaen University in December 1992. The lines will require a Right of Way (ROW)
of 27.3 ha that includes 6.3 ha of Watershed Class 4B land, 7.8 ha of Class 2B land, 12.6 ha of Class
2A land and 4.4 ha of Class lB land. The line will traverse 1.8 km of agricultural land, 5.0 km of
degraded forest and 0.15 km of second growth forest. There are no dwellings within or near this
proposed ROW.
5.21       The following would be the criteria for compensation for those affected by transmission
lines. These criteria are acceptable to the Bank.



-42-
(a)   Paddy field or cultivated land in the ROW  - 50%  of the determined value (i.e.
replacement value) and the user would be permitted to continue cultivation.
(b)   Orchard/farm land in the ROW  - 70% of the determined value and the user would be
permitted to continue other cultivation such as cash crop.
(c)   Residential land in the ROW - 90% of the determined value and the dwelling would have
to vacate from the ROW. Structures within the ROW will be paid with replacement value
(including dismantling cost, transfer cost and the cost of reconstruction).
(d)   Tower location - 100% of the determined value and the user or occupant would have to
vacate the premises.
(e)   Perennial trees - the compensation will include breeding cost, planting, fostering and
opportunity cost as appropriate.
5.22       The representatives of the affected people would be members of the committees and sub-
committees formed for planting and implementing the compensation and rehabilitation program. If any
of the affected people are aggrieved by the rehabilitation process, they could register their appeals to the
committee responsible for receiving complaints and petitions.
5.23       Environmental investigation of the Phase II transmission lines is currently in progress and
scheduled to be completed in June 1995. ROW requirements of the Phase II transmission lines will
become available in February 1995. At negotiations, agreement was reached with EGAT that Phase II
transmission lines would be constructed only after the environmental investigation reports and necessary
mitigation measures have been approved by the OEPP and reviewed by the Bank.



Chapter VI
Financial Analysis
A. Past Financial Performance
6.1              A  summary of EGAT's consolidated (generation, transmission and mining) financial
performance is presented in Table 6.1 while the detailed statements are given in Annex 16. EGAT's
financial performance for the period FY89-93 has been satisfactory.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF EGAT'S FINANCIAL OPERATING STATISTICS, FY89-93
(Baht million)
Fiscal Year ending September 30   |    1989    I     1990     1    1991      |    1992      [    1993
Energy sales (Gwh)                         33,701         39,369         44,773         50,771        56,558
Average revenue (B/kWh)                       1.26          1.26           1.26           1.22          1.20
Operating revenues                         42,649         50,410         57,215        62,702         68,463
Operating expenses                         29,951         34,872         43,428        47,841         53,619
Operating income                            12,698        15,538         13,787         14,861        14,844
Net income                                  7,628         10,411          9,300         9,109          8,052
Rate base                                  95,536        133,357        139,255        156,069       184,319
Long-term debt                             62,141         74,205         90,268        99,461        117,237
Primary ratios:
Rate of return (%)                            11.7          11.3            8.2            6.7           5.5
Debt service coverage (times)                  1.4           1.7            2.2            1.7           1.4
Operating ratio (%)                            70             69             76            76             78
Current ratio (times)                         1.1            0.9            1.0            0.8           0.7
Debt/Equity ratio                            0.75           0.64           0.74          0.72           0.81
Self-financing ratio (%)                       33             30             39            28             27
6.2              During the period FY89-93, EGAT's energy sales grew  at an annual average of about
14%, from 33,701 GWh in FY89 to 56,558 GWh in FY93. Since 1989, EGAT has experienced high
growth rates in energy sales attributable to rapid industrial expansion, progressing rural electrification
and people's changing lifestyles.
6.3              EGAT's financial results for the last five years show that it is a profitable and efficient
organization. Its self-financing ratio and the rate of return on net revalued assets in operation have
remained relatively high throughout the FY89-93 period, averaging 31 % and 8.7%, respectively.
6.4              The introduction of the value added tax (VAT) in January 1, 1992 had a significant effect
on EGAT's operations. When VAT was introduced, the prices of energy sold by EGAT were maintained
at previous levels and were not increased by the 7 % VAT charge. The sales price therefore became VAT
inclusive and EGAT had to account for the VAT as a tax on output so that sales revenue suffered



-44-
accordingly. With effect from October 1, 1991 (i.e., FY92), the Government agreed to a new tariff
structure that would allow EGAT to make sales price adjustments if there were increases in its costs as
a result of VAT and increases in fuel prices. However, the Government requested that no adjustments
be made on the tariff until June 1, 1992, by which time the full effects of the introduction of the VAT
would have been known.
6.5           Despite the negative effect of the VAT on EGAT's revenues, two factors compensated
for this so that EGAT was still able to achieve a healthy financial performance in FY92. First, additional
revenues of Baht 646 million, Baht 748 million and Baht 848 million were earned by EGAT, MEA and
PEA, respectively, because of the favorable change in actual consumption pattern as opposed to that
expected in the pricing plan envisaged in the new tariff structure. As part of the overall deal to
compensate EGAT for the loss of revenue during the months of January to May 1992, the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) agreed that Baht 1.5 billion of the additional revenues earned by MEA and PEA should
be passed to EGAT. Second, the business tax, which had been paid on most materials, was abolished
and replaced by VAT enabling EGAT to claim it back as tax on input.
6.6          In accordance with regulations applicable to state enterprises, EGAT is liable to remit a
proportion of its net income to the MOF at a level determined at year's end according to the needs of the
National Treasury. EGAT's practice is to reflect these remittances as a reduction to retained earnings
rather than an income tax because EGAT considers remittances as an appropriation of net income (similar
to dividends) rather than a tax on profit. At the middle of the year, the Goverment advises EGAT a
preliminary figure to be remitted; EGAT is assessed a final amount to be paid only when its books are
closed. These remittances have been variable ranging from 5% to 20% of net profit. In FY93, MOF
decided to call for a remittance of 30% and EGAT made this contribution in FY94.
B. Present Financial Position
6.7           During FY93, EGAT experienced an increase in energy sales of 11 % over FY92 or from
50.8 GWh in FY92 to 56.6 GWh in FY93. Of the 56.6 GWh sales volume, 53% was sold to PEA, 44%
to MEA, 3 % to direct customers, and the remainder to EDL (Laos), TNB (Malaysia), and other minor
customers. Energy sales in FY93 to PEA increased strongly by 14% from FY92, as a result of the
growing industrial development in provincial areas and the Government's commitment to pursue its rural
electrification program. The larger share and rapid increase of EGAT's total electricity sales to PEA
had a sharp effect on EGAT's income since the rate of energy sold to PEA was much lower than the
average sales price to MEA and PEA. According to the new electricity tariff, EGAT's unit sales price
to PEA and MEA further declined; the sales price to PEA in particular, dropped 2% from 97.47
stangs/kWh in FY92 to 96.30 stangs/kWh in FY93 (1 Baht = 100 stangs). The lower sales price to PEA
coupled with increasing rate of demand which has surpassed MEA's for several past years resulted in a
decrease in the average selling price and consequently, slower growth of EGAT's sales revenues.
6.8           EGAT's operating revenue for FY93 showed an increase of Baht 5.9 billion or 10% over
FY92. EGAT's average tariff consists of a basic tariff and an adjustment factor (Ft). The Ft, which
essentially is an adjustment on the basic tariff to account for changes in fuel price, was introduced in June
1992 and is applied whenever there is a difference between the actual and target costs of generation of
more than 2 stangs per kWh. The increase in operating revenues was mainly attributable to the increase



-45-
in electricity demand though offset by a reduction in the basic tariff of about 2.7% from Baht 1.15 in
FY92 to Baht 1.12 in FY93. While there was a 22 % rise in the Ft from Baht 0.06/kWh in FY92 to Baht
0.08/kWh in FY93, average tariff (including Ft) dropped from Baht 1.22 to Baht 1.20 for the same
period. While VAT and land and property tax adjustments were made during the year, some of these
costs were absorbed by EGAT and not passed on to the consumers. So far, no adjustments have been
made for demand side management costs (also allowed in Ft) since no significant costs have been
incurred.
6.9           During FY93, total energy generated by EGAT exceeded its budgeted figure but all of
this excess had to be generated using fuel oil, which is relatively expensive. Hydro generation was
severely affected by the drought (in certain reservoirs, the water was at its lowest level), and power
generated by plants using lignite was below budgeted and previous levels mainly due to the environmental
problems at Mae Moh. Some problems were also experienced with the gas supply from PTT at
Namphong which was not as plentiful as originally estimated. These shortfalls had to be made up by
plants using fuel oil. As a result, despite falling oil and gas prices, fuel expenses increased from Baht
31.9 billion in FY92 to Baht 34.6 billion in FY93, or by 8%.
6.10          Other operating expenses in FY93 increased by 18% from FY92 levels principally
because of: (a) an increase in expenses of transmission, engineering and generation on account of several
new plants coming into service; and (b) the full impact of the increase in the salary structure which took
effect in April 1992. Nevertheless, EGAT posted operating and net incomes of Baht 12 billion and Baht
8.1 billion, respectively, for FY93, slightly reduced from those of the previous year of Baht 11.9 billion
and Baht 9.1 billion, respectively.
6.11         EGAT's foreign exchange gains and losses on loan repayments arise as a result of
differences in exchange rates between year end and at the date of loan repayments. As of September
1993, EGAT's long term debts of Baht 117.2 billion (net of current maturities) were denominated half
in US Dollars and the other half in Japanese Yen, German Mark and Swiss Franc. During the year, the
Baht weakened against the Dollar and the Yen, but strengthened against the Mark and the Franc. The
losses on foreign exchange which EGAT charged to its FY93 operations were similar to the previous
year, amounting to Baht 2.1 billion.
6.12          EGAT revalues foreign currency loans as of September 30 of each year, and spreads the
loss over the remaining terms of the loans to a deferred foreign exchange adjustment account. The
amount written off to deferred foreign exchange adjustment account increased by approximately 4 % over
FY92. Even with the increase in EGAT's long term debt as a result of the inclusion of the deferred
foreign exchange account, its debt to equity ratio remained well below the covenanted ratio set in
previous Bank agreements at 60:40.
6.13          EGAT's financial position remained healthy on the strength of continued increases in
revenues accumulated over the years. The self-financing ratio based on a three-year average capital
expenditures on power, irrigation, mine and development, has been declining from the previous high
levels of FY89-91 because of substantial capital investments which have grown on average at about 39%
from Baht 11.8 billion in FY89 to Baht 31.8 billion in FY93. As capital expenditures have grown,
EGAT's revalued rate base of net fixed assets for power has also increased from Baht 95.5 billion in
FY89 to Baht 184.3 billion in FY93. As a result, the rate of return on revalued rate base has declined
from 12% in FY89 to 5.5% in FY93. Other factors also contributed to this trend, particularly in FY92
and FY93, when the rate of return had deteriorated to 6.7% and 5.5%, respectively. First, the increase



-46-
in the remittance rate to the Government from  15% to 20%  in FY92 and from 20 %  to 30%  in FY93 has
resulted in significant reductions to operating income. Second, the index used to revalue EGAT's net
fixed assets to arrive at the rate base has had a distorting effect. The FY92-93 net fixed assets were
revalued on the basis of very high deflators provided by the Government in February 1992. Subsequent
revisions, however, were made to these deflators in January 1994 which showed lower indices for FY92-
93 and consequently, slower increases in EGAT's revalued fixed assets.
C. Financial Outlook
6.14             The healthy financial performance of EGAT is expected to continue for the next several
years. Projections of EGAT's financial performance for the period FY94-2001 and the assumptions
underlying these projections are presented in Annex 17. Key financial indicators are presented in Table
6.2 below:
Table 6.2: SUMMARY OF EGAT'S FINANCIAL OPERATIONS, FY94-01
(Baht million)
Fiscal Year ending        1994        1995    1996       1997      1998    1999   2000   | 2001
September 30        l _                  l         l         l I                 l          l
Energy sales (GWh)             63,491    69,971    76,836    83,564    90,638   97,699   105,410  113,853
Average revenue (B/kWh)          1.23       1.32      1.33      1.54       1.58     1.72       1.87     1.92
Operating revenues             79,142    93,175   102,617   128,772   143,314  168,385   197,529  218,849
Operating expenses             63,620    68,968    78,557    86,510    99,630  112,671   121,153  132,998
Operating income               15,522    24,207    24,060    42,262    43,684   55,714    76,376   85,851
Net income                      8,982    16,211    15,289    31,663    31,286   34,603    42,617   58,140
Rate base                     208,027   233,149   276,591   321,936   347,697  455,201   608,552  668,091
Long-term debt                144,878   183,771   224,797   281,310   341,347  401,656   435,410  478,168
Primary ratios:
Rate of return (%)                5.8       7.1        6.1       8.9        8.9      8.8       9.2       9.1
Debt service coverage (times)     1.5        1.8       1.5        1.7       1.5      1.3        1.2      1.1
Operating ratio (%)                80        74         77        67         70       70        61        61
Current ratio (times)             0.8.       0.6       0.5       0.6        0.4      0.4       0.4       0.3
Debt/Equity ratio                0.84      0.60       0.50      0.57       0.42     0.40      0.38      0.32
Self-financing ratio (%) a/         23        27         25        25         31       25        25        25
a! Internal cash generation less debt service expressed as a percentage of three years' average capital
expenditure on power, irrigation, mine and development.
6.15             EGAT's  capital investment expenditure averaged Baht 17 billion per year in the Sixth
Plan (FY87-91), and is expected to substantially increase to Baht 50.2 billion in the Seventh Plan (FY92-
96), and to Baht 117.2 billion in the Eight Plan (FY97-200 1). About 52%  of this expenditure would be
in foreign currency. At the same time, EGAT is committed to complying with the Government's policy
of keeping public investment under control, encouraging private sector participation in energy
development, and conforming with the ceiling on annual public foreign borrowing imposed by the



-47-
Government. EGAT is therefore examining various alternatives to finance this very large investment
program and has planned partial divestiture as a fund raising option to meet future capital requirements.
6.16          From 1995 to the year 2001, EGAT's projected foreign currency denominated loan and
interest repayments are projected to increase from Baht 12,700 billion to Baht 55,750 billion. A
sensitivity analysis of the projections was done to test the effect of a 5 % fluctuation of the Yen and the
Mark on EGAT's financials. The results show that even with substantial increases in EGAT's foreign
currency obligations, the self-financing ratio remains within the 25% ratio agreed with the Bank. The
debt service coverage ratio will deteriorate but will still remain above 1.0 times (ranging from 1.04 to
1.71 times). While EGAT's financial position continues to be strong, the current ratio has been declining
in the past several years, and the decline is projected to continue until 2001. The decline is due to a
substantial increase in current liabilities, including current maturities on account of EGAT's heavy
investment program. Revised financial projections provided by EGAT at negotiations, show substantially
improved results with current ratios exceeding 1.0 times being achieved in the outer years of the forecast
(year 2000 and beyond) on account of additional cash and a decline in current maturities expected from
EGAT's sale of a second power plant and the participation of IPPs in its power development plan.
6.17          While EGAT's financial prospects continue to be bright, the challenge for EGAT in the
near term is to be able to finance a high level of capital investments contemplated until 2001 and at the
same time maintain an acceptable level of self-financing to be achieved for the next several years.
EGAT's projections show that an acceptable level of self-financing can be achieved from FY95-2001.
However, such a level can only be achieved in FY94 if EGAT is able to proceed with the proposed sale
of its power plants (para. 1.32). Acceptable levels of self-financing would be sustained if EGAT
acquires Good State Enterprise (GSE) status and maintains tariffs consistent with its financial objectives.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it will take measures, including
but not necessarily limited to setting tariff levels, so as to generate funds from internal sources equivalent
to not less than 25% of the annual average of its capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year.
6.18          The projected income statements are based on the assumption that EGAT would be able
to increase tariffs in FY95 by 9% and that the power plant at Rayong would be privatized. It is
envisaged that the fixed assets at Rayong would be transferred to EGCO who would operate the plant and
sell power to EGAT. The price at which this power would be sold has not yet been agreed but it is
assumed that the price paid by EGAT would be sufficient to provide EGCO with an internal rate of
return on equity (IRR) of 20%. It is assumed that the EGCO selling price would be about Baht
1. 15/kWh which is higher than EGAT's production cost because EGCO will pay more in capital funding
costs and insurance premiums and require an IRR of 20%. It is further assumed that EGAT would
recover the effect of power purchased from Rayong in the sale price adjustment (Ft) and that the proceeds
from the sale would be used for other capital investment rather than the repayment of loans which
financed the building of the plant. The loans would therefore remain in EGAT's books. It is expected
that other plants would also be offered for sale to EGCO including Khanom combined cycle plant in
FY95.
6.19          Because privatization of the Rayong plant has been delayed, EGAT will operate the plant
until about end-FY95. Although the delay would not have an appreciable effect on EGAT's income
statement, a delay in receiving the sale proceeds will have implications on EGAT's capital expenditure
program and financing. The longer the sale is delayed, the smaller EGAT's other income would become.
This is because both interest on the sale proceeds and the EGCO profit from which EGAT takes a share



-48-
would be reduced. EGAT has advised the MOF that unless the proceeds from the sale are forthcoming,
it will need to make alternative funding arrangements.
6.20          EGAT's projected financial ratios are expected to be satisfactory. The debt service
coverage would range between 1.1 to 1.8 times throughout the projected period. The capital structure
would also be more than adequate with long term debts not exceeding 1.3 times equity or a comfortable
ratio of 57/43. EGAT's current debt control test provides for Bank review of borrowing when the debt
to equity ratio exceeds 1.5 times or 60/40 level. To ensure that measures are taken to maintain EGAT's
strong capital structure, during negotiations, agreement was reached with EGAT that further debts would
not be incurred if such additional debt would raise its total long term indebtedness to more than 1.5 times
of its total capitalization. Under previous loans, EGAT was also required not to contract short- and
medium-term debt (debt which matures within five years) in excess of 15% of its total debt outstanding.
EGAT has always complied with this covenant, and at negotiations, it was agreed that compliance of this
limit would be continued under the proposed loan.
6.21          The cash flow forecast shows a net outflow of funds of about Baht 86 billion to Baht 262
billion throughout the projected period and these will be met largely out of existing cash reserves and
borrowings. The forecast includes a source of funds of Baht 17 billion in FY94 on the sale of the
Rayong plant to EGCO. EGAT's cash flow projections, however, do not show other sources which may
materialize during the projected period, particularly possible sale of other power plants and investments
by IPPs (paras. 1.34 - 1.35) sometime in FY98.
D. Lignite Mine Department
Operations
6.22         The Lignite Mining Sector, which is treated as a separate profit center, comprises the Mae
Moh and Krabi mines. The Lignite Mine Accounting Division maintains accounting records to enable
the results of the lignite mining operations and the production cost of lignite to be recorded separately.
As the electricity tariff is closely linked to fuel costs, the charge to EGAT for lignite is made at an
economic transfer price which is reviewed annually. The transfer price of lignite is recalculated at the
beginning of the year based on a formula established by consultants, Meta Systems Inc., which has been
agreed with the Bank. The transfer price reflects the long-run marginal cost of lignite and is equal to the
sum of EGAT mining costs and a depletion premium that accounts for the increasing economic scarcity
value of lignite and the associated cost to the economy of the early use of an exhaustible resource. The
depletion premium is derived from the opportunity cost of lignite (based on imported coal as a substitute),
future mining costs and the magnitude of reserves. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
EGAT would continue to set the transfer price for the lignite produced and used in the power plants on
the basis of economic principles and so as to ensure the financial viability of its lignite mine operations,
in accordance with the methodology previously agreed with the Bank.
Finances
6.23         In FY93 EGAT raised funds through the issue of EGAT bonds and a loan from the
Government Savings Bank. Part of these borrowings, amounting to Baht 1.07 billion, were allocated to
the Lignite Mining Sector and are shown on its balance sheet although not all of the funds had been



-49-
utilized by FY93. The Lignite Mining Sector does not have a bank account and accordingly the
unutilized funds of Baht 1.02 billion are included in the internal funding account which relatively reduces
its equity. This had a significant impact on the debt equity ratio of EGAT; if the surplus funds were held
in the bank account of the Lignite Mining Sector, the debt equity ratio would only be approximately 1:1.
6.24         The financial performance of the Lignite Mining Sector has been satisfactory. It has
consistently complied with the debt covenants set under previous Bank loans. As of September 1993,
its debt:equity ratio is at 1.29:1 and its debt service coverage ratio is at 1.75 times.
E. Tariff Levels and Structure
6.25          EGAT sells power to the distribution utilities, MEA and PEA, at wholesale rates. The
approach used in setting tariff for end-use consumers of MEA and PEA is on the basis of long-run
marginal cost pricing but takes account of equity, social and developmental considerations. The tariffs
ensure that sufficient revenues are generated to cover the combined revenue requirement of all the three
utilities, EGAT, MEA and PEA. For rationalization of the bulk supply tariff see para. 4.14 and Annex
10.
6.26          According to agreements reached under Loan 2915-TH (Power Transmission Project)
concerning adjustments in the then existing tariff structure, a new electricity tariff was announced and
took effect in December 1991. Individual rate categories were reduced from 15 to 8: small residential,
large residential, small general service, medium general service, large general service, specific business,
government institutions and non-profit organizations, and agricultural pumping. Annex 18 gives the
current tariff schedule. An automatic adjustment clause, allowing the utilities to adjust the rates to
comply with changes of costs beyond the utilities' control, was also included in the revised tariff. The
clause allows for adjustment in the price if there are increases/decreases in the costs due to fuel prices,
land and property taxes, demand side management, and VAT.
6.27         The differences in cost at various voltage levels are taken into account in determining
individual tariff rates. Three forms of tariffs are currently being applied: (a) energy charges alone; (b)
demand charges with energy charges; and (c) time-of-day (TOD) rates. TOD tariffs for consumers with
a demand of greater than 2,000 kW have been in effect since 1991. However, efforts were made to
introduce TOD tariffs to consumers with demand in excess of 30 kW and energy in excess of 355,000
kWh per month since December 1992. Implementation of TOD tariffs for medium general service
consumers was completed in FY93.
6.28         The electricity tariffs are set by a tariff setting committee composed of EGAT, MEA,
PEA, MOF, NEPO and NIDA. The committee meets monthly to determine the automatic adjustment
factor and prepares recommendations to the NEPC on the proposed tariff increases during the tariff
setting period every three years.
6.29         Table 6.3 below shows the average rate levels in current prices that would be necessary
for EGAT to achieve an acceptable level of self financing for the next several years.



-50-
Table 6.3: EGAT'S PROJECTED AVERAGE TARIFF
_  Current Level |
I    FY94    IFY95 IFY96    FY97  IFY98  IFY99    FYOOI   0 I
Average tariff (B/kWh)       1.23        1.32    1.33    1.54     1.58     1.72     1.87     1.92
| Projected tariff increase (%) T  -      9.6       0.3   16.1      -       12.1       120       3.0
F. Financing Plan
6.30           The financing plan for EGAT over the FY94-95 period is presented in Table 6.4. The
proposed project, including interest during construction, represents 27% of EGAT's total investment
program during the FY94-95 period. The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million is expected to meet
10% of EGAT's total financing requirements for the period. During the FY94-95 period, EGAT expects
to meet 21 % of its total capital requirements from internally generated funds. This is lower than 25%
(the level required under the self-financing ratio covenant) because the covenant is based on a three-year
average investment and EGAT's investments are substantially higher (by 71 %) in FY94-95 than in FY93.
EGAT's detailed investment program from FY95 to FY99 is presented in Annex 19. The program shows
that EGAT's required investments including IDC for these five years amount to a total of US$11.4 billion
or about US$2.2 billion per year. This figure does not take into account investments in the power
subsector to be made by IPPs. However, the program includes power plants which EGAT will build but
eventually sell to EGCO or other subsidiaries. EGAT has in the past been able to raise the required
financing and implement an investment program of this magnitude.
TABLE 6.4: EGAT FINANCING PLAN
lBaht                        US$            
Laht      (million)                  l
Capital Requirements
EGAT Investments                 50,971                    2,039                    94
IDC                              3,400                      136                      6
Total Capital Requirements         54,371                   2,175                    100
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation         33,177                    1,327                    61
Less: Debt Service               16,256                     650                     30
Working Capital Requirements      5,501                     220                     10
Net Internal Cash Generation       11,420                    457                      21
Borrowings                         25,811                    1,032                    47
Equity                                0                       0                       0
Sale of Rayong power plant         17,140                     686                     32
Total Sources of Funds             54,371                   2,175                    100



-51-
6.31          Borrowing from external sources amount to only 47% of EGAT's financing requirements
for FY94-95 as a large proportion (32%) of cash sources would be coming from the sale of the Rayong
power plant. EGAT has not experienced any difficulties in the past in securing bilateral financing,
suppliers credits, and commercial loans. EGAT has made use of and will continue to use Bank, OECF,
and other bilateral funds; export credits; commercial syndicated loans; and local bonds to cover any
financing gap.






Chapter VII
Project Justification
A. Economic Analysis
7.1          EGAT's power development plan, which is supported in part by the proposed loan, is
critical to the continued growth and industrialization of Thailand. Its timely implementation is essential
to meeting the growing demands of power by industry, commerce and residential consumers.
Economic analyses were performed both for EGAT's investment program and for the Lam Takhong
Pump Storage project.
EGAT's Investment Program
7.2          To confirm the economic viability of EGAT's power development plan (PDP) the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit streams
associated with the 1991-2000 time-slice of EGAT's overall investment program. This period covers
about 5,500 MW of gas-fired combined cycle plant based on present reserve estimates of domestic
natural gas, about 5,300 MW of conventioned thermal plant (coal/oil/gas), about 1,500 MW of lignite-
fired capacity, and about 1,800 MW of peaking hydro, pump storage and gas turbine capacity.
Incremental fuel costs are based on economic prices for natural gas, lignite, fuel oil and diesel oil as
estimated by NEPO and given in Annex 20. The projected levels of EGAT tariffs producing the
minimum covenanted 25% self-financing ratio are used as a proxy for benefits, ignoring possible
consumer surplus. The ERR on the expansion program is 12%. Details of the calculations are given in
Annex 21.
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
7.3          The pump storage units would not only provide the much needed peaking power for the
Thai grid at least cost, but would considerably improve the system's dynamic performance enabling it
to meet rapidly changing loads, while optimizing output from its generators. This benefit is significant
but difficult to quantify and, conservatively, no attempt has been made to do so.
7.4          EGAT has carried out detailed computer simulations of its least-cost development plan
using: (a) the 4x250 MW Lam Takhong Pump Storage scheme; and (b) the next best altemative of
internal combustion turbines of which lIx 100 MW units were required to achieve the same loss of load
probability as Lam Takhong. These simulations have shown that the pumping energy for Lam Takhong
would be supplied during off-peak hours by the highly efficient dual fuel (oil/gas) 600 MW
conventional thermal units in the system. The lignite and coal fired thermal plants and the gas fired
combined cycle plants would be fully committed to supply the system's base load energy. As the
reserves of indigenous gas are fully committed, the marginal fuel for both alternatives would be heavy
fuel oil. However, as the combustion turbines cannot burn heavy fuel oil, gas is assumed to be diverted
from the dual fuel (oil/gas) conventional thermal units, which would burn correspondingly higher
quantities of heavy fuel oil. If these combustion turbines cannot be installed near locations where
natural gas supplies are already available, they would have to bum costly diesel oil or the project would



-53-
entail a heavy cost for the extension of gas pipe lines. Conservatively, it is assumed that it would be
feasible to instal the combustion turbines near already established gas supplies.
7.5           The overall efficiency of the pump storage scheme which includes transmission losses
during pumping is estimated at 70%. Thus for an annual energy generation of 989 Gwh from the pump
storage plant, the pumping energy requirement is 1,412 Gwh. The heat rates of the large conventional
thermal units are: 9.04 cft/kWh for gas and 0.23 I/kWh for heavy fuel oil. The heat rates for the
combustion turbines are 11.62 cft/kWh for gas and 0.33 1/kWh for diesel oil.
7.6           Investment costs of the pump storage scheme and the next best alternative of internal
combustion turbines are based on constant 1994 prices, exclusive of duties and taxes and interest during
construction (Annex 22).  The cost of environmental impact mitigation and compensation (to
maintain/increase the standard of livelihood of the affected people) are fully considered for Lam
Takhong. Operation and maintenance costs are assumed at 1.0%, 3.0%, and 1.5%, respectively, of the
capital costs for hydro plant, internal combustion turbines and transmission system. The economic lives
of the facilities are assumed as: (a) internal combustion turbines - 20 years; (b) hydro-electric
machinery - 20 years; (c) civil works - 50 years; and (c) transmission system  - 33 years.  The
incremental quantity of fuel oil for the pump storage scheme as compared to internal combustion
turbines is derived from actual simulation of the system operation.
7.7           Details of the economic analysis for the base case are presented in Annex 23. The
equalizing discount rate (at which the present values of the cost and benefit streams become equal), is
computed at 16%. This is above the threshold discount rate of 10% stipulated by NESDB for project
acceptability. Sensitivity analysis for variation in various relevant parameters gives the following values
for the equalizing discount rate. This shows that the project continues to remain economically viable
under possible, though unlikely, adverse conditions.
Case                                       ERR
Base                                       16%
Capital cost of Lam Takhong
increased by 10%                         13%
Price of fuel oil escalated
at 3% p.a. for the entire
project life                             15%
Combustion turbines using diesel
oil instead of gas                       20%
B. Risks
7.8           The project faces risks generally associated with any hydro project - cost and schedule
overruns due to geological and hydrological uncertainties, and contractor and construction supervision



-54-
inadequacies. Geological risk is small due to the uniform nature of the site geology and has been
further lessened by very comprehensive site testing and investigations. Hydrological uncertainties are
low since hydrology of the Lam Takhong River has been well established and the project actually
consumes no water. Flood risk is low since the small amount of work needed in the reservoir would be
carried out in the dry season, and sudden rises in the reservoir water level could be prevented by
operation of the outlet works. Care has been taken in the perqualification process to ensure a fully
qualified contractor and the full involvement of experienced international consultants in construction
supervision would reduce the project management risks to a minimum. Finally, EGAT's excellent track
record in overall management of hydro projects and its state of preparedness gives a substantial degree
of assurance for timely completion of the project.






Chapter VIII
Agreements Reached and Recommendation
A. Agreements
8.1          During negotiations, agreement was reached:
With EGAT that it would:
(a)    carry out an annual review and update of its 5-year investment program and related
financing plan and exchange views with the Bank and the Government on the said
program (para. 2.8);
(b)    submit to the Bank audited annual financial statements for the mining operations and
EGAT as a whole, within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.21);
(c)    under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, cause the upper reservoir dam to be
periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of this structure, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the same, which may
endanger its safety (para. 4.18);
(d)    carry out the Environmental Impact Mitigation and Rehabilitation Plans as set forth in
the documents: (i) Implementation Plan - Environmental Mitigation and Development,
January 1994, by OEPP; and (ii) August 1994, Addendum to the Implementation Plan,
Environmental Mitigation and Development, by EGAT, including provision of
necessary budget, appointment of committees for managing and supervising
implementation and agencies for monitoring and evaluation (para. 5.1);
(e)    construct the Phase II transmission lines only after the environmental investigation
reports and necessary mitigation measures have been approved by OEPP and reviewed
by the Bank (para 5.23);
(f)    maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 60:40 and short- and medium-term debt at no
more than 15% of all debt outstanding (para. 6.20);
(g)    continue to operate its lignite mining activities as separate profit center by maintaining
separate accounts and financial statements; set the transfer price of lignite produced and
used on the basis of appropriate economic and financial criteria in accordance with
methodology previously agreed with the Bank (para. 6.22).
With EGAT and the Government that:
EGAT would undertake a study for the rationalization of the bulk supply tariff,
according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and promptly thereafter, the



-56-
Government will review with the Bank the recommendations of that study and
implement the said recommendations taking into account the Bank's views (para. 4.14).
With the Government that it would:
undertake a periodic review of power rates to ensure that tariffs are adequate for EGAT
to produce funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 25 % of the annual
average of its capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, by them for
that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year (para. 6.17).
B. Recommendation
8.2           On the basis of the agreements outlined above, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent to EGAT with the guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 17-year term including a 5-year grace period on repayment
of principal.



ANNEXES






-57-                                               Annex 1
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operations
FY89         FY90          FY91          FY92          FY93
EGAT
Peak generation (MW)                                 6,233         7,094        8,045         8,877        9,730
Annual load factor (%)                                66.8          69.5          69.9         72.0         73.0
Net energy generation (GWh)                         36,457        43,189       49,225        56,006       62,180
Energy sold (GWh)                                   33,611        39,369       44,773        50,771       56,558
Network losses (GWh)                                 2,846         3,820        4,452         5,235        5,622
Network losses (as % of generation)                   7.81          8.84          9.04         9.35         9.04
Number of employees                                 31,797        33,153        34,990       35,200       35,200
Employee per MW installed                              4.6           4.1           3.6          3.2          2.9
MEA
Peak demand (MW)                                     2,715         3,124         3,519        3,993        4,346
Energy purchased (GWh)                              16,144        18,623       20,777        22,956       24,873
Energy sold (GWh)                                   15,247        17,725        19,851       21,968       23,849
Losses (GWh)                                           897          898           926           988        1,024
Losses (as % of purchases)                             5.6           4.8          4.5           4.3          4.1
Number of Consumers ('000)                           1,190         1,273         1,377         1,497       1,604
Sales/consumer (kWh)                                12,817        13,923        14,416       14,675       14,868
Annual load factor (%)                                67.9          68.1          67.4         65.6         65.3
Number of employees                                 11,764        12,969        13,887       13,916       13,617
Number of consumers/employee                           101           98            99           108          118
PEA
Peak demand (MW)                                     3,266         3,763        4,284         4,984        5,709
Energy purchased (GWh)                              16,161        19,352       22,531        26,178       29,918
Energy generated (GWh)                                  17            17           20            20           25
Energy available (GWh)                              16,178        19,369       22,551        26,198       29,943
Energy sold (GWh)                                   14,930        17,932       20,954        24,359       28,819
Losses (GWh)                                         1,248         1,437         1,597        1,659        1,124
Losses (as % of available)                             7.7           7.4          7.1           6.3          3.8
Number of Consumers ('000)                           6,069         6,586        7,082         7,547        8,047
Sales/consumer (kWh)                                 2,460         2,723        2,959         3,251        3,581
Annual load factor (%)                                56.6          58.8         60.1          60.0         59.9
Number of employees                                 26,116        27,380       28,641        29,814       30,884
Number of consumers/employee                           232          241           404           395          384






-58-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Demand-Side Management Program
Background
1.          In 1992, the Government of Thailand (GOT) approved legislation establishing the Energy
Conservation Promotion Act, which increased the GOT commitment and resources to implement a
comprehensive energy efficiency program. In 1993, the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) provided
a grant to fund the Thailand Promotion of Electricity Efficiency Project (GEF Project). The objective
of the GEF Project is to demonstrate on a large scale and within a reasonable timeframe (a) the potential
for electricity savings to replace substantial future power generation in Thailand, thereby reducing future
CO2 (and nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide) emissions, and (b) the capability of the electric power sector
and other relevant agencies to achieve projected savings. The GEF Project is funding a slice of the
GOT's Five-Year (1993-1997) US$189 million Demand-Side Management Plan (DSMP) and has as its
primary focus the demonstration of specific energy efficient technologies in the residential, commercial
and industrial sectors to achieve the required energy savings over the Project period.
2.           The DSMP has a savings target of 238 MW and 1,427 GWh of electricity per annum by
the end of 1997. The Project has a four-pronged approach: (a) provision of user and manufacturer
incentives and consumer education to direct practices and attitudes toward energy efficient technologies;
(b) development of efficiency standards and testing capabilities to exercise control and monitor efficiency
improvements; (c) development and promulgation of building and appliance codes to allow for the
enforcement of minimum standards; and (d) continued pursuit of technological improvements and
adaptation to Thai conditions.
3.           The aforementioned DSMP is being implemented by the Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand (EGAT), which has the legal mandate and the authority to pursue all facets of acquiring
electricity DSM resources. Within EGAT, DSM program implementation is the responsibility of the
DSM Office (DSMO), with a current staffing level of 60 people.
Demand-Side Management Implementation
4.           The DSMP includes programs for three main segments of the market - the residential,
commercial and industrial sectors.  The Residential programs focus on both manufacturers and
consumers: incentives to manufacturers to stimulate the production and supply of energy efficient
equipment and to customers to encourage the purchase of more efficient equipment. All programs are
in the design phase or early stage of implementation.
5.           The Lighting Program. The primary focus of the lighting program to date has been to
promote high efficiency fluorescent tubes (36 watt and 18 watt) to replace standard fluorescent tubes (40
watt and 20 watt). Since more than 40 million fluorescent tubes are sold each year in Thailand,



-59-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
approximately 100 MW peak demand reduction is projected from this program by 1997. EGAT already
reached an agreement with 5 major lighting equipment manufacturers in Thailand to stop the production
of standard tubes by September 1995. The five lighting equipment manufacturers represent a combined
market share of 95 percent. In addition, a program to offer incentives to encourage the consumption and
the production of low-loss magnetic ballasts is under development.
6.            The Refrigerator/Air Conditioner Rebate Program.  Beginning January 1, 1995, each
refrigerator (size 5-6 cu. ft.) sold will have a label indicating an efficiency rating, level of annual KWh
use, and cost of electricity consumption. This pilot program will provide to the purchasers of high
efficiency refrigerators a coupon that is redeemable for a cash rebate by sending it to EGAT. The rebate
is expected to cover a part of the incremental cost of high efficiency refrigerators. Peak demand savings
of 27 MW and energy savings of 186 GWh per annum are anticipated from this program by the end of
1997. A similar program for air conditioner is envisaged for implementation in early 1995. In the latter
phase of the five-year program, incentives will be replaced by standards and codes that will establish and
enforce minimum levels of efficiencies for equipment.
7.           In the Commercial sector, the program component aims to influence existing commercial
and governmental establishments to retrofit/replace existing lighting systems with more efficient systems,
by offering free lighting audits and rebates for lighting component and system replacement and retrofit.
To date, lighting retrofits have been performed in eight public buildings. In addition, EGAT has
launched an energy audit program targeted specifically for department stores. There exist approximately
80 large department stores in Bangkok, and seven of them participated in the energy audits to date.
EGAT is also planning to expand the program to hotels and hospitals.
8.           Another commercial program, in an early planning stage, is a new commercial buildings
program which would provide incentives for the design of energy efficient buildings. Improvements in
building design will be achieved through the provision of design services and training for architects and
engineers; the payment of some portion of the incremental cost of more energy efficient systems for
pioneering pilot programs; and the ultimate phasing out of such incentives over time through development
and promulgation of building codes to establish maximum levels of building energy usage.
9.           There are two program components planned for the Industrial sector. The first, the Motor
System Program, to be administered by the DSMO, will focus on improving the efficiency of existing
and new motors systems. The second, the Process Efficiency Program, to be administered by the
Department of Energy Development and Promotion (DEDP), will focus on the improvement of energy
efficiency of overall industrial processes. The Motor System Program will provide rebates to purchasers
of new motors to move to higher efficiency motors and will also provide rebates to motor users to replace
bumt-out motors with high efficiency motors instead of rewinding. Over time, the Motor Systems
Program will provide free audits (coordinated with the DEDP) and incentives to encourage replacement.
In addition, various administrative mechanisms will be implemented, such as the establishment of codes
of practice and certification of motor rewinders and the reduction of tariffs on the importation of high
efficiency motors and inverters.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
A. Power Subsector Privatization Plan
Activity                                        Status                                               Target Date
First Step:
1.     Acquire GSE Status               Protracted discussions continue.                          06/95.
2.     Change bulk price                Monenco consultants hired to design bulk power agreement   NEPO reviewing.
to MEA/PEA to LRMC              with MEA/PEA. Report finished in 1993.                    PEA opposing
recommendations.
3.     Introduce business               Substantial progress made. Agreement heavy oil w/ PTT com- 6/95.
principles in fuel              pleted ('93); natural gas agreement to be completed in 6/95.
4.     Automatic tariff                 Completed.
adjustment.
5.     Distribution of                  Completed.
EGCO shares to SET.
6.     Elimination of                   To be considered before privatization.                    FY95.
uniform tariff.
Second Step:
1.     Sale of Rayong                   Completed.
power plant.
2.     Raise private                    Consultant has been hired to prepare proposal and         6/95.
sector funds for                evaluation documents. EGAT to review recommendations.
Mae Kham.                       On schedule for inviting IPPs.
3.     Determine IPP                    Consultant has been retained for IPP program.
functions.                      Report is done & EGAT has reviewed recommendations.
4.     EGAT restructuring.              Being implemented. Deferred implementation until          10/95.
IM is in place.
5.     MEAIPEA GSE status.              Currently underway.                                       FY95.
6.     Restructure PEA.                 Currently underway.                                       FY95.
Third Stet:
1.     Amend EGAT Act & privatize       Delayed.                                                  FY97.
EGAT, MEA & PEA.
2.     Prepare EGAT registration        Delayed.                                                  FY97.
with SET.
3.     Encourage IPP investment         Guidelines already issued.                                --
Fourth Steo:
1.     Diversify PEA.                   Not yet done.                                             FY98.
2.     Distribute shares of EGAT,       Listing to be done.                                       FY98.
MEA, PEA in SET.



-61-                                    Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
B. Electricity Generating Company (EGCO)
1.          EGCO is a private company set up under the commercial code, and registered with the Ministry
of Commnerce on May 15, 1992 with an initial registered capital of Baht 100 million divided into 10 million
shares. At the moment, EGAT holds the entire equity with the exception of 15 shares to comply with SET
regulations for public listing. After the initial public offering, EGAT shall control 48% of EGCO with the
remaining shares held by Crown Property Bureau and other equity investors, which would include retail and
institutional investors. It is intended that EGCO would operate at full arms length from EGAT and would
have full responsibility for its operations.
2.          After the establishment of EGCO, the Government, in September 1992, took additional steps to
ensure the success of the privatization program by initially giving EGCO an option to acquire the Khanom
power facility that consists of a 674 MW nearly-completed combined cycle station, and two other existing 75
MW barge-mounted thermal power stations located in Southern Thailand. Secondly, the Government granted
EGCO the rights to invest in businesses related to the power industry and to bid for other independent power
projects.
3.         In February 1994, the Cabinet gave its approval in principle to the key project agreements and
structure of EGCO. EGCO is to be organized as a holding company; it will not become the direct owner of
specific power plants, rather, holdings will be set up for the assets of each power plant. EGCO will hold
99.9% of the shares in newly-set up subsidiaries and any business contracts will be made directly by that
subsidiary. It is envisaged that the holding company structure will allow EGCO to expand to other future
projects while at the same time allow each project to be financed individually on a project finance basis.
Following this decision, the Rayong Electricity Generating Company (REGCO) was established in June 1994
as EGCO's first wholly-owned subsidiary. In line with the recommendations of the EGCO study, EGCO has
purchased the Rayong power plant and associated assets, partly in exchange for shares and partly on loan
account. When the transfer of the Rayong Plant is concluded, EGCO's shares will be offered to private
investors and as EGCO takes on other projects, further tranches of shares will be sold to the public, with
EGAT always maintaining 48% ownership of EGCO's equity. In April 1994, the Cabinet gave its assent to
the transfer price of the sale of the Rayong power plant to EGCO. EGCO has now applied for SET listing,
has appointed a new managing director and two deputies, and is fully operating from its office in Bangkok.
4.          EGCO is currently negotiating three key project agreements which will define its contractual
relationships with EGAT as well as the conduct of its future operations. First, it has signed an Asset Purchase
Agreement, which outlines the assets and the price at which EGAT has agreed to sell them, and includes
terms of the transfer of title of the Rayong power plant to REGCO and the option for EGCO to purchase the
Khanom power station. Second, it is finalizing a Power Purchase Agreement, which is the most important of
the three key agreements since it defines the revenue stream that REGCO is to receive from EGAT in the next
20 years, and since the Agreement will be used by EGAT as a model for future IPP projects. The main
features of this Agreement include: (a) EGAT's commitment to take all of the output from the power plants;
(b) the initial 20 year term with options to extend subject to mutual agreement; (c) the electricity sales price
comprising of a demand and energy charge; (d) a bonus and penalty scheme providing incentives for high
levels of power station availability and efficient usage of fuel; (e) interim fuel supply arrangements; and (f)
governmental force majeure events.  Finally, it is negotiating the terms of a six-year renewable Major
Maintenance Agreement wherein EGAT has agreed to perform major maintenance, repairs, administrative and
additional services in exchange for service fees.



THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Demand Forecast
FY 94         FY 95          FY 96          FY 97          FY 98          FY99            FY 00           FY01
Energy Sales (GWh)
MEA
Residential                            4,985          5.300          5.720          6,114         6,552           7.037            7,572          8.150
Business                               9,389         10,708         12,081         13,335        14,611          15,970           17,351         18,821
Industrial                            10,317         10.999         11,832         12,628        13,449           14.312          15,226         16,357
Specific                                 420            436           454            474            495             519             545             576
Water Supply                             325            341           359            378            398             418             438             460
Government                               101          1,052          1.091          1.134          1.177           1,221           1.264          1,307
Street lighting                          109            114            119           124            128             133              138            143
Received from EGAT                    27,879         30,387         33.226        35,881         38.632          41.573          44,644          48.085
PEA
Residential                            7.419          8.324          9,344         10,171        11.081           12,086          13,196         14.425
Business                               5,348          5,876          6,409          6,947         7.498           8.061            8,638          9,229        cb
Industrial                            15,334         17,158         19,102        21,155         23,303          25.598          28,006          30,528
Specific                                 965          1,054          1,143          1,235         1,328            1.424           1,522          1,624
Gov. & Npo                             1,332          1,419          1,504          1,587         1,669            1,749           1,829          1,909
Agri. pumping                            150            166            180           194            208             222             236             251
Temporary                                396            437           477            517            558             599             639             678
Free of charge                           195            213           232            252            273             294             316             339
Received from EGAT                    33,208         36,931         40,908        44,799         48,894          53,265          57,883          62,768
EGAT's direct customers                 2,404          2,652         2,703          2,883          3,111           2,862           2,882           3,000
Total Sales                        63,491         69,970         76,837         83,563        90,647           97,700         105,409        113,853
EGAT network losses (GWh)               5,917          6,417          7,060          7,615          8,696           9,192           9,726         10,305
As % of net generation                     8.5           8.4            8.4            8.4            8.8             8.6             8.4            8.3
EGAT net generation (GWh)               69,407        76,388         83,896         91,178         99,334         106,891         115,136        124,158
EGAT load factor (%)                     72.2           72.7           73.1           73.3           74.0            74.2            74.3           74.5
EGAT peak generation (MW)               10,975        11,993         13,103         14,193         15,315          16,446          17,685         19,029
MEA peak demand (MW)                     4,791         5,231          5,723          6,205          6,670           7,174           7,701          8,290
MEA load factor (%)                       66.4          66.3           66.3             66           66.1            66.2            66.2           66.2
PEA peak demand (MW)                     6,186         6,803          7,460          8,090          8,752           9,459          10,205         10,995
PEA load factor (%)                       61.4          62.1           62.7           63.3           63.9            64.4            64.8           65.3
Energy requirement of pumped              330            330            452            512          1,083           1,083           1,083           1,083
storage Hydro Power Plant
x






-63-                                                 Annex 5
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT's Existing Generating Capacity
(as of September 1994)
Average Energy
Plant Type                     Commissioning           No. of          Cavacity (MW)                Capability
Date(s)              Units        Installed       Ultimate        (GWh/Yr)
Hydroelectric Plant
Bhumibol                             1964-82             7               547.6           715.6           1,118.0
Sirikit                                1974              3               375.0           500.0             670.0
Ubolratna                            1966-68             3                25.2            25.2              56.0
Sirindhom                            1971-84             3                36.0            36.0              86.0
Chulabhorn                             1972              2                40.0            40.0              95.0
Kaeng Krachan                          1974              1                17.5            17.5              78.0
Nam Pung                               1965              2                 6.0             6.0              15.0
Srinagarind                          1980-85             5               720.0           720.0           1,283.0
Bang Lang                               1981             3                72.0            72.0             200.0
Tha Thung Na                         1981-82             2                38.0            38.0             165.0
Khao Laem                            1984-85             3               300.0           300.0             460.0
Huai Kum                                1982              1                1.06            1.06              2.0
Ban Yang                               1974              3                 0.13            0.13              0.3
Ban Santi                              1982               1                1.27            1.27              6.0
Ban Chong Klum                         1984              1                 0.02            0.02              0.1
Ban Khun Klang                         1983              2                 0.18            0.18              0.4
Maengat                                1985              2                 9.0             9.0              29.0
Kiridham                               1986              2                12.7            12.7              27.0
Rajiaprabha                          1986-87             3               240.0           240.0             350.0
Huai Kui Mang                          1987              1                 0.1             0.1               0.2
Pak Mun                                1994              2                68.0           136.0             251.0
Total                                                52             2,509.76        2,870.76          4.892.0
Thermal Power Plant
Mae Moh (Lignite)                    1978-91            11             2,025.0         2,025.0          13,310.0
Krabi (Lignite)                      1964-68             2                34.0            34.0             180.0
North Bangkok (Oil)                  1961-68             3               237.5           237.5           1,250.0
Surat Thani (Oil)                      1973              1                25.0            25.0             170.0
Khanom PPB (Oil)                     1981-89             2               150.0           150.0           1,050.0
South Bangkok (Oil/Gas)              1970-77             5             1,330.0         1,330.0           9,320.0
Bang Pakong (Oil/Gas)                1983-92             4             2,300.0         2,300.0          16,118.0
Total                                                28             6.101.50        6.101.50        41.398.0
Combined Cycle Power Plant (Gas)
Bang Pakong                          1980-92            16             1,374.6         1,374.6           9,633.0
Rayong                               1990-93            12             1,232.0         1,232.0           8,634.0
Khanom                                 1994              5               674.0           674.0           4,723.0
Nam Phong                            1990-93             6               710.0           710.0           4,975.0
South Bangkok                          1994              3               335.0           335.0           2,348.0
Total                                                42             4,325.          4,325.60        30.313.
Gas Turbine (Distillate)
Udon Thani                             1969              1                14.0            14.0              31.0
Hatyai                               1969-71             3                42.0            42.0             92.0
Surat Thani                          1969-70             2                28.0            28.0              62.0
Lan Krabu                            1969-81             8               140.0           140.0            858.0
Total                                                14              224.0           224.0            1.043.0
Grand Total                                                         13.16.86        13. 160.86..






-64-
Annex 6
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT's Existing Transmission and Substation Facilities
Substation                                    Transmission Lines
Region                                                                   (Circuit-Kilometers)
and System          Number          Transformer a/           Double-       |      Single-              Total
Voltage                           Capacity (MVA)           Circuit              Circuit
Region 1
500 kV                       1                1,200                  26                 132                 158
230 kV                      23              11,627                3,271                  42               3,313
115 kV                      48               3,644                 784                1,488               2,272
69 kV                       2                   59                   0                  66                  66
Total                       74              16,530                4,081               1,728               5,809
Region 2
230 kV                       5                1,600                 802                   0                 802
115 kV                      30               2,018               2,496                1,674               4,170
69 kV                       4                   66                   0                  145                145
Total                       39               3,684                3,298               1,819               5,117
Region 3
230 kV                       6                1,100               1,274                   0               1,274
115 kV                      19               1,562                1,268               1,137               2,405
Total                       25               2,662                2,542               1,137               3,679
Region 4
500 kV                       2               1,800                  668                 375               1,043
230 kV                       6                1,283               2,178                 218               2,396
115 kV                      25               1,632                1,023               1,157               2,180
69 kV                       2                   66                   0                  29                  29
Total                       35               4,781                3,869               1,779               5,648
All Regions
500 kV                       3               3,000                  694                 507               1,201
230 kV                      40               15,610               7,525                 260               7,785
115 kV                     122               8,856               5,571                5,456              11,027
69 kV                       8                  191                   0                 240                 240
Total EGAT  J              173    |         27,657    |          13,790    1          6,463              20,253
Notes: a/ Station service and generator unit transformers are excluded.






-65-
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Power Development Plan
Location                                 Unit No.             Type            Capacity (MW)        Scheduled date
Under Construction
Khanom CC 1 (GT)                                1-4            Gas                   448             November         1993
Nam Phong CC 2 (ST)                               1                                  113             May              1994
Pak Mun                                         1-4            Hydro                 136             June 94 - Nov 94
South Bangkok CC 1 (ST)                           I                                   115            August           1994
Khanom CC 1 (ST)                                  1                                  226             September        1994
Sirikit                                          4             Hydro                 125             March            1995
Mae Moh                                          12            Lignite               300             May              1995
Mae Moh                                         13             Lignite               300             November         1995
Bhumibol Pumped-Storage                          8             Hydro                 175             December         1995
Kaeng Krung                                     1-2            Hydro                  80             September        1999
Sub-total                                                                     2.018
New Projects
Nong Chok Gas Turbine                             1            Diesel                100             January         1995
Nong Chok Gas Turbine                            2             Diesel                100             February        1995
Nong Chok Gas Turbine                            3             Diesel                100             March            1995
Nong Chok Gas Turbine                            4             Diesel                100             April           1995
Sai Noi Gas Turbine                               I            Diesel                100             May              1995
Sai Noi Gas Turbine                              2             Diesel                100             June            1995
Wang Noi CC 1 (GT)                              1-2            Gas                   200             December         1995
Wang Noi CC 2 (GT)                              1-2            Gas                   200             February        1996
Wang Noi CC 3 (GT)                              1-2            Gas                   200             April            1996
South Bangkok CC 2 (GT)                         1-2            Gas                   400             May              1996
Wang Noi CC 4 (GT)                              1-2            Gas                   200             June             1996
Bang Pakong Combined Cycle 5 (GT)  a/           1-2            Gas                   400             June             1996
Wang Noi CC I (ST)                                I              -                   100             December         1996
Wang Noi CC 2 (ST)                                I              -                    100            February         1997
South Bangkok CC 2 (ST)                           I              -                   200             February         1997
Bang Pakong Combined Cycle 5 (ST)  a/             I              -                   200             March            1997
Wang Noi CC 3 (ST)                                I              -                   100             April            1997
EGAT-TNB Stage H Interconnection                  -              -                   300             April            1997
Wang Noi CC 4 (ST)                                I              -                   100             June             1997
Ao Phai Thermal                                   I            Oil/Coal              700             October          1998
Mae Kham FBC                                      I            Lignite               300             November         1998
Lam Takhong Pumped-Storage                      1-2            Hydro                 500             January         1999
Ao Phai Thermal                                  2             Oil/Coal              700             April            1999
New Thermal                                       1            Oil/Coal             1,000            July             1999
Ao Phai Thermal                                  3             Oil/Coal              700             October          1999



-66-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Location                                Unit No.            Type            Capacity (MW)       Scheduled date
New Thermal                                     2          Oil/Coal                     1,000     July            2000
Region 3 Combined Cycle                         I          Gas                            300     October         2000
Mae Taeng                                     1-2          Hydro                           26     October         2000
Lampang                                         I          Lignite                        300     November        2001
Lam Takhong Pumped-Storage                    3-4          Hydro                          500     February        2002
Lampang                                         2          Lignite                        300     March           2002
Mae Lama Luang                                1-2          Hydro                          160     April           2002
Lampang                                         3          Lignite                        300    July             2002
Region 3 Combined Cycle                         2          Gas                            300     November        2002
Lampang                                         4          Lignite                        300     November        2002
New Thermal                                     3          Oil/Coal                     1,000     January         2003
Lampang                                         5          Lignite                        300     March           2003
Nam Khek Pumped-Storage                       1-2          Hydro                          300     April           2003
Lampang                                         6          Lignite                        300     July            2003
New Thermal                                     4          Oil/Coal                     1,000    January          2004
New Thermal                                     5          Oil/Coal                     1,000     July            2004
Lampang                                         7          Lignite                        300    January          2005
New Thermal                                     6          Oil/Coal                     1,000     January         2005
Lampang                                         8          Lignite                        300    July             2005
New Power Plant                                 I          Oil/Coal/LNG/Nuclear         1,000    January          2006
New Power Plant                                 2          Oil/Coal/LNG/Nuclear         1,000    July             2006
Sub-total                                                                              18.186
Total
a! Siting will be changed to Wang Noi for combined cycle Blocks 5-6 rated 300 MW each.



-67-
Annex 8
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Balance of System Load Requirements and Capabilities
Requirement                          Capacity                         Eneriry
Fiscal          Peak       Energy                                Reserve CaDacity              Reserve
Year          Generation  Generation    InstaUed   Dependable    Gross a/  Net b/    Firm     from Firm
(MW)      (GWh)         (MW)        (MW)        (M)       (*)       (GWh)       (*)
1984          3,547.3    21,066.4      5,898.6    5,666.3       59.74    33.50   27,427.8     30.20
1985          3,878.4    23,356.7      5,898.6    5,666.3       46.10    35.69   30,838.8     32.03
1986          4,180.9   24,779.5       6,507.6    6,228.6       48.98    25.87   32,034.8     29.28
1987          4,733.9    28,194.3      6,634.0    6,368.3       34.53    15.68   33,001.4     17.05
1988          5,444.0    31,997.0      6,886.7    6,578.5       20.84      0.60   33,246.8     3.91
1989          6,232.7    36,277.2      7,261.7    6,946.0        11.44    -6.24   34,746.4     -4.22
1990          7,093.7    43,188.8      7,977.7    7,647.6        7.81    -7.73   37,932.7    -12.17
1991          8,045.0   49,347.4       9,617.7    9,078.8        12.85     1.39   47,458.8    -3.83
1992          8,876.9    56,006.0     11,040.7    10,472.8       17.98     7.04   56,112.3     0.19
1993          9,730.0   62,179.7      12,190.7    11,602.5       19.24     8.74   66,141.5     6.37
1994         10,800.0   69,765.0      13,160.9    12,182.3       12.80     6.34   70,915.8     1.65
1995         11,880.0   76,890.0      14,149.9    13,238.4       11.43     5.34   74,890.3    -2.60
1996         13,009.0    83,896.0     16,017.9    15,039.6      15.61    11.75   82,738.3     -1.38
1997         14,193.0   91,178.0      17,217.9    16,221.6       14.29    10.07   93,205.2     2.22
1998         15,315.0   98,763.0      17,292.9    16,295.8       6.40      2.00   97,166.1    -1.62
1999         16,446.0   106,673.0     20,572.9    19,474.8       18.42    11.15  108,395.2     1.61
2000          17,685.0   115,742.0    22,012.9   20,869.8        18.01    10.96  123,088.1     6.35
2001          19,029.0   124,999.0    22,138.9   20,993.8        10.33     4.81  128,942.2     3.15
2002         20,237.0   133,171.0     23,698.9   22,535.8        11.36     6.17  131,827.3    -1.01
2003         21,440.0   141,862.0     26,198.9   24,981.8        16.52     9.33  145,073.1     2.26
2004         22,690.0   150,889.0     27,888.9   26,618.1        17.31     8.54  155,963.4     3.36
2005         23,997.0   160,274.0     29,178.9   27,872.3        16.15     9.12  167,245.9     4.35
2006         25,371.0   170,151.0     30,718.6   29,391.6        15.85    10.90  175,248.6     3.00
Notes:  a/ Dependable capacity minus peak demand.
b/ Firm capacity minus peak generation.






-68-
Annex 9
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Projected Energy Balance
Types of       Units                                   Fiscal Year
Power Plant             1994   1995   1996    1997   1998  1999  2000  2001  2002   2003  2004   2005
1. Hydro       GWh   2986   2403    3785   4380   4380  4380  4558  4670  4941    5212  5212   5212
-Pumping      GWh    472    504         316    358    358   728   853   852  1183    1429  1429   1511
- Total Hydro   GWh    3458   2907   4081    4738   4738  5108  5411  5523  6124    5541  5541    5723
%     5.0    3.8    4.9    5.2    4.8   4.8   4.7   4.4   4.6    4.7   4.7              4.2
2. Natural Gas  GWh  31771   33969  30464  45152  48331 45959 51840 55419 58859  58371 57811   57365
(Domestic)      %    45.5   44.2   36.3   49.5   48.9  43.9  45.0  44.4  42.5   41.1  38.3   35.8
MMSCFD       853    857    748    1052   1055  1021  1142  1217  1248    1282  1268    1257
3. Natural Gas  GWh        -       -       -       -       -      -      -      -     -       -      -       -
(Imported)      %
MMSCFD          -       -       -       -       -     -      -
4. Heavy Oil    GWh  20468  22522   27497  21878  25223 33448 13035  13581  15620   11378  9498   4955
%    29.3   29.3   32.8   24.0   25.5  31.3  11.3  10.9  11.7    8.0   6.3              3.1
10 litres   5090   5578   6791    5321    8199  7946  3166  3324  3883    2780  2316    1231
5. Diesel Oil    GWh     354    1864   3692    320    1381   320   320   320  1172          320   320      320
%     0.5    2.4    4.4    0.4        1.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.9    0.2   0.2          0.2
10 litres    247    601    1121    116    456   120   123   123   402         130   132      136
6. Lignite      GWh   12956   14406   17402  18385   18386 20310 20485 20485 24160  30460 33085   36185
%     18.6   18.7   20.7   20.2    18.6  19.0  17.8  16.4  18.1   21.5  21.9   22.0
10 Tons  10850   12360   15870   16469   16459  18227 18388  18388 21594  27091 29382   31214
7. Import Coal  GWh        -       -       -       -       -      - 23475 28731 28731   33987 42747   55011
9%      -       -       -       -       -      -  20.4  23.0  21.6   24.0  28.3   34.3
10 Tons       -       -      -       -       -      -  7992  9770  9770   11547  14510   18657
8. Nuclear      GWh        -       -       -       -       -      -      -      -     -       -      -       -
Tons       -       -       -       -       -      -     -      -      -       -      -       -
9. Purchase     GWh      760    1222    760    705    705   705   705   705   705    705   705             705
%      1.1    1.6    0.9    0.8    0.7   0.7   0.6   0.6    0.5    0.5   0.5            0.4
Total         GWh  69765   76890   83896  91178  98763 106850 115271 124764 133171  141862 150889  160274
%    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
MMSCFD = Million Standard Cubic Feet Per Day.






-69-
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Rationalization of Bulk Supply Tariff to MEA and PEA
Consulting Study - Terms of Reference
Background
1.         Electricity supply in Thailand is undertaken by three utilities: (a) the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (EGAT) which is responsible for generation and transmission of electricity in the
whole country and distribution to a few large consumers; (b) the Metropolitan Electricity Authority
(MEA) which is responsible for distribution of power to metropolitan Bangkok area, Nonthaburi and
Samut Prakan; and (c) the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) which is responsible for the
distribution of electricity to the rest of the country.
2.         MEA and PEA receive power from EGAT in bulk at several of their grid substations.
The bulk supply tariff to MEA and PEA as currently applied comprises a flat energy charge. Without
a demand charge or a variation depending on time of use, the tariff does not reflect the costs of supply,
and is, therefore inadequate to give correct signals to the distribution utilities to improve their load
factor, load shape and power factor or foster energy conservation. The bulk supply tariffs to MEA and
PEA are set by the Government, taking into account the financial needs of the three utilities. The
current tariff for bulk supply to MEA is 1.47 Baht/kwh, whereas the tariff to PEA is 0.96 Baht/kwh,
although the actual cost of supply to PEA is greater than the cost of supply to MEA. The difference in
the tariff to the two utilities MEA and PEA is intentional, so that the urban consumers subsidize the
rural consumers, the retail tariff for all consumers in Thailand being uniform.
3.         The Government of Thailand has drawn up a plan for the commercialization and
corporatization and eventual privatization of EGAT, MEA and PEA. EGAT may be separated into
more than one company, each of which would be responsible for transmission and/or generation, while
MEA and PEA would continue to be responsible for distribution. PEA is expected to be regionalized
into more than one company while there is a possibility that MEA may be split into more than one
company. The entire power sector would be business-oriented and so would be the transactions for
purchase and sale of electricity between the various parties. A grid code has been drafted for the sale
of power by Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and the newly created Electricity Generating
Company Limited (EGCO) to the Transmission Company, a role that is currently assumed by EGAT.
The current bulk supply arrangements between EGAT and MEA/PEA would no longer be appropriate
and a new arrangement would need to be evolved. If a subsidy needs to be provided for electrifying
rural consumers, it may have to be provided through a separate transparent mechanism. Likewise, the
Government would also consider abolishing uniform retail tariffs throughout the country.



-70-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Objectives and Scope of the Study
4.         The main objectives and scope of the consulting study would be:
(a)  to review the current and future (under a restructured power sector) financial requirements
of EGAT, MEA and PEA and propose a rational basis for setting tariffs that would enable
the three utilities to meet their financial objectives and needs;
(b)  to review the existing bulk supply tariff and recommend suitable tariffs for bulk supply to
MEA and PEA that would reflect the actual costs of supply and take into account the
future structure of the power industry in Thailand;
(c)  to review the need for a uniform national tariff and suggest a retail tariff structure that
would be based on economic principles and provide suitably for equity considerations,
including the necessary transparent subsidy mechanism;
(d)  to suggest a time frame and transition strategy for the implementation of the new bulk
supply tariff;
(e)  to suggest cost-effective and flexible metering arrangements for measuring and integrating
demand and energy for bulk supply to MEA and PEA considering that PEA may be
regionalized into more than one company and MEA could possibly be split into more than
one company; and
(f)  recommend draft power purchase agreements for bulk supplies.
Methodology
5.         A lot of work has already been done with regard to evaluation of long run marginal costs
of supply at different voltage levels etc. This should be taken into account and updated as necessary.
Likewise, the consultant would need to refer all available and ongoing studies relating to corporatization
and privatization. The consultant would need to review in detail the investment programs of EGAT,
MEA and PEA and their financial objectives and needs in the context of corporatization and
privatization, in establishing the rationale for setting the bulk supply tariffs.
6.         In the conduct of the study, the consultant would work closely with the three electric
utilities and under the guidance of the National Energy Policy Office.



-71-
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Project Cost Estimate (Stage 1 - 2x25OMW)
(Thai Baht million)
Local       Foreign       Total
Preliminary Works                                     186.0          0.0         186.0
Environmental Plan                                    184.6          0.0         184.6
Civil Works
Upper Pond                                        560.0      1,306.0      1,866.0
Water Way and Power House                         710.0      1,659.0      2,369.0
Hydraulic Equipment                                   401.0        804.0       1,205.0
Electro-Mechanical Equipment
Turbine Generators and Accessories                307.5      1,805.0      2,112.5
Main Transformers                                  14.1       121.2         135.3
Control System                                     22.9       134.1         157.0
Transmission System
Switchyard                                         54.3       355.1         409.4
Transmission Line                                  21.5        38.6          60.1
Telecommunication                                   7.5        67.2          74.7
Consulting Services                                    74.6        334.7        409.3
Administration                                        259.9          0.0        259.9
Duties and Taxes                                      450.9          0.0        450.9
Total Base Cost                                 3,254.8     6,624.9       9,879.7
Physical Contingencies                                309.0        554.4        863.4
Price Contingencies                                   611.2        505.7       1,116.9
Total Project Cost                              4,175.0     7,685.0      11,860.0
Notes: Physical Contingencies: Preliminary Works, Environmental Plan and Civil Works   - 10%
Plant and Equipment                        - 5%
Price Contingencies:   Foreign  2.5% per annum
Local       5.0% per annum
Base Cost:        1994 Price Level



-72-
Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Project Cost Estimate (Stage 2 - 2x25OMW)
(Thai Baht million)
Local        Foreign       Total
Preliminary Works                                          1.9          0.0            1.9
Environmental Plan                                         5.5          0.0           5.5
Civil Works                                               21.1         15.8          36.9
Hydraulic Equipment                                        0.0          0.0           0.0
Electro-Mechanical Equipment                             288.4      1,701.5        1,989.9
Transmission System                                      283.9        310.4         594.3
Consulting Services                                       28.3         66.2          94.5
Administration                                            94.5          0.0          94.5
Duties and Taxes                                         293.0          0.0         293.0
Total Base Cost                                   1,016.6      2,093.9        3,110.5
Physical Contingencies                                    73.1        108.8         181.9
Price Contingencies                                      440.3        362.3         802.6
Total Project Cost                                1,530.0      2,565.0        4,095.0
Notes: Physical Contingencies:  Preliminary Works, Environmental Plan and Civil Works    - 10%
Plant and Equipment                          - 5%
Price Contingencies:   Foreign  2.5 % per annum
Local        5.0% per annum
Base Cost:         1994 Price Level



-73-                                          Annex 12
THAILAND                                           Page 1 of 2
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Key Date Schedule for Procurement
Completed By    |         Action By        |                          Description
Aug. 1994       OECF & EGAT                Loan Negotiation
Sep. 1994       OECF & EGAT                Loan Agreement Signing
Dec. 1994       IBRD & EGAT                Loan Negotiation
Feb. 1995       EGAT (consultant)         Completion of Detailed Design
Apr. 1995       EGAT                       Start of Bidding Period for Civil Works
Apr. 1995       IBRD & EGAT                Loan Agreement & Signing
Jun. 1995       EGAT (consultant)         Start of Bid Evaluation for Civil Work
Jul. 1995       EGAT                      Start of Bidding Period for Electro Mech. Equipment (E.M.)
Sep. 1995       EGAT                      Letter of Intent for Civil Works
Oct. 1995       EGAT (contractor)          Start of Bid Evaluation for E.M.
Feb. 1996       EGAT                       Start of Bidding Period for Main Transformer
May 1996        EGAT                       Start of Bid Period for Switchyard Equipment
May 1996        EGAT (contractor)          Start of Bidding Period for Transmission Line
May 1996        EGAT (contractor)          Start of Bid Evaluation for Main Transformer
Jun. 1996       EGAT                       Letter of Intent for E.M.
Aug. 1996       EGAT                       Start of Bidding Period for Hydraulic Equipment
Aug. 1996       EGAT (contractor)          Start of Bid Evaluation for Switchyard Equipment
Aug. 1996       EGAT (contractor)          Start of Bid Evaluation for Transmission Line
Oct. 1996       EGAT (contractor)          Start of Bid Evaluation for Hydraulic Equipment
Nov. 1996       EGAT                       Letter of Intent for Main Transformer
Jan. 1997       EGAT                      Letter of Intent for Hydraulic Equipment
Jan. 1997       EGAT                      Letter of Intent for Switchyard Equipment
Jan. 1997       EGAT                      Letter of Intent for Transmission Line
Sep. 1997       EGAT                      Start of Bid Period for Control System
Nov. 1997       EGAT (contractor)          Start of Bid Evaluation for Control System
Jan. 1998       EGAT                      Start of Bid Period for Telecommunication System
May 1998        EGAT (contractor)          Start of Bid Evaluation for Telecommunication System
May 1998        EGAT                       Letter of Intent for Control System
Nov. 1998       EGAT                       Letter of Intent for Telecommunication System



-74-                                        Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Key Date Schedule for Construction
Completed By              Action By                                   Descrption
Oct. 1995       EGAT (contractor)          Commencement of Civil Works
Jul. 1995       EGAT (supplier)            Commencement of Design & Manufacturing of Electro-Mechanical
Equipment
Dec. 1996       EGAT (supplier)            Commencement of Design & Manufacturing of Main Transformer
Feb. 1997       EGAT (supplier)            Commencement of Design & Manufacturing of Hydraulic
Equipment, Switchyard Equipment & Transmission Line
Dec. 1997       EGAT (supplier)            Completion of Design & Manufacturing of Transmission Line
Jan. 1998       EGAT (contractor)          Commencement of Work for Transmission Line
Mar. 1998       EGAT (contractor)           Commencement of Installation of Hydraulic Equipment
Jun. 1998       EGAT (contractor)          Commencement of Installation of Electro-Mechanical Equipment
Jun. 1998       EGAT (contractor)          Completion of Upper Pond
Jul. 1998      EGAT (contractor)           Commencement of Work for Control System
Sep. 1998       EGAT (contractor)          Commencement of Main Transformer Installation
Oct. 1998       EGAT (contractor)          Commencement of Switchyard Equipment Installation
Dec. 1998       EGAT (contractor)          Completion of Main Transformer Installation
Jan. 1999       EGAT (contractor)          Commencement of Work for Telecommunication System
May 1999        EGAT (contractor)           Completion of Work for Telecommunication System
May 1999        EGAT (contractor)          Completion of Transmission Line
Sep. 1999       EGAT (contractor)          Completion of Switchyard Equipment Installation
Nov. 1999       EGAT (contractor)          Completion of Civil Work
Nov. 1999       EGAT (contractor)           Completion of Hydraulic Equipment Installation
Nov. 1999       EGAT (contractor)          Completion of Control System Installation
Feb. 2000       EGAT (contractor)          Completion of Electro-Mechanical Equipment Installation
Feb. 2000       EGAT (contractor)          Commissioning of Unit I
May 2000        EGAT (contractor)           Commissioning of Unit 11



-75-
Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Contract Packages
Tender                                                 Items
1. CONTRACT - Ti                                UPPER POND
-    Earth Works
-    Surface Membrane Fill Dam
-    Drainage System
-    Road around Upper Pond
WATERWAY, POWERHOUSE & SWITCHYARD
-    Tunnel Works for Penstock, Tailrace, Powerhouse Access Tunnel
and Access Tunnel to Penstocks
-    Underground Powerhouse
-    Concrete works for Intake Structure and Outlet structure
-    Surge Shafts and Gate Shafts
-    Grounding System
-    Lighting System
-    Switchyard
2. CONTRACT - T2                                PUMP-TURBINES
-    Pump-turbines
-    Inlet Valves
-    Speed Governors
-    Pressure Oil Supply System
-    Compressed Air Supply System
-    Water Supply and Drainage System
-    Penstock Filling Pump
GENERATOR-MOTORS
-    Generator-motors
-    Excitation System
-    Pump Starting Equipment
-    Neutral Grounding System
-    Protection System
POWER PLANT EQUIPMENT
-     16.5 kV Circuit Equipment
-    Station Service Circuit Equipment
-    Powerhouse Paging System
-    ITV Supervisory System
-    DC Supply System
-    Control Cable and Power Cables, Ground Wires, Ground Rods and
Accessory Equipment
-    Water Level Measurement Device
-    Diesel Engine Generator
-    Fire Extinguishing System
-    Cable Tray & Cable Rack, Support
-    Powerhouse Cranes
-    Transformer Cranes
-    Dam Power Supply Equipment



-76-
Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
Tender                                            Items
3. CONTRACT - T3                            HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT
-    Draft Tube Gate
-    Tailrace Gate
-    Steel Penstock
-    Bifurcation
-    Trashracks
4. CONTRACT - T4                            MAIN TRANSFORMERS
-    Transformers
-    Fire Extinguishing System
5. CONTRACT - T5                            SWITCHYARD EQUIPMENT
-    230 kV Switchyard Equipment
-    230 kV XLPE Cables and Cable Support
-    Switchyard Steel Structure
6. CONTRACT - T6                            TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEM
7. CONTRACT - T7                            CONTROL AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
8. CONTRACT - T8                            TRANSMISSION SYSTEM



-77-
Annex 14
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD            Estimated Disbursement             Disbursement Profile /a
FY            Annual         Cumulative         Project    Country Standard
(US$ million)                          (%)
1996             9.0              9.0             9.0               1.0
1997            26.0             35.0             35.0              6.0
1998            34.0             69.0             69.0             22.0
1999            24.0             93.0             93.0             52.0
2000             7.0             100.0           100.0             74.0
2001             -                 -                               90.0
2002                                                               100.0
/a Standard profile of disbursements for power projects in Asia.






THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pumped Storage Project
Environmental Plan and Budget
_                                               iFiscal Year
Plajn                           I  Implementing    _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _   _ _  __   rT-                              r  -      Respontshiei     (Budget
Period       I994 199S   1996  1997 |1998  | 1999    2W0(   | 2001    2002 1 200312004 12005  2006  2007   200tl          Agencies       Ilion Bahit
Project Construction__ _ _ TI                                                                                                                              ' --                             _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Preparation                                               _____iT_________
2. Construction                                              _                j                                         I     I                          |                              1
3. Production                                                _1/_>_2/_>
Ensironmental hlitigation and Development                                                                                                                                                ________i__
Plan for environnmeital mitigation and development before constructbGn
LPublic Renaion                                              8 ymars                                                                     _ andEGAT                                                             10o  r
2. Compensation                                              I year 6 moialis  I                                                                       _                 j =ThecCoinniitce                     42 00
3. Life quality development                                  8 years                                                                                                         _           The Coiiiiiittee      21 65
4. Agfo co-op. establishment                                 I year 6 months            >  |                                                                                      _     IDept. of Coop.        24.43
5. Occupation deveclpment                                    II years                                                                                                    _               The Conmiutee         2387
Plai for environmenlal mitigationi anid development during construction
preveniUon of soil erosion                                 4 years                                                                                                                                           1 25
*comrol and pI sp iun of s:dimeti                          4 years                                                                                                                     ECGAT with the
dispersion in the reservoir                                                                                                                                                            cooperation with
prevention of air pollution. noise and                     4 years                                                                                                                     OEPP, Dept of
vibration                                                                                                                                                                              Hi-g-hway-. De-pnHealr
* mitigation and developmntu of utraffc syn.                4 year
* preparation for hygiene at the cost. site                  4 years          |_|
Plan for envrnmettal mitigation and development after construction
I  Environnrnal rehabilitatin and dev, in                    14 years                                                                                                               >   RFD & EGAT            58 63
the project site
2. Fishery resource conservation in                          7 ycars                                                                                                                     DOF&EGAT              1075
Lamn Takhong reservoir
3. Waler resource management                                 .6 years                                                                                          >                         RID h EGAT            100
4. Land allocation                                           3 years                                                                                                                     The Conniittee        7 00
Plan for Monitoring and Evaluating the Environmental Mitigation asnd levelopmnent                                                                                                        OEPP SUprNvisi,1n1   18 57
I Plan tor monioring and evaluating the forest rehabilitation  7 yrars        |_>______
2. Plan for monitoring and evaluating the aquatic biology and  t0 years                                                                                  >
fishery in the Lan Takhong reservoir
3. Plan for moniLoring and evaluating the water resource     6 years                                                                                                 >
nutagement c
4  Plan for onnilorinng and cvaluating itie soio-econonic    8 ycrs                                                                       >   |                                                                           >
5. Plan for moniloring Jakd cvaluatinig the public health    6 years                                                                                                                    ____________>                     _J ________ i_
TOTA L[ _ _                                                                    _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  __                     _  _   _  _      2 9 S
enarks. Coliiiigeciwics for the budget has been added to the projcct budget
1/ Starts Phase I eleciricity generation               OEPP - Office of the Enviromnental Policy and Plan   EGAT - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
2/ Starts Phase 2 electricity generation               RFD - Royal Forestry Depanment
- > Lo be imsplemetntd continuously by the responsible unts   DOF - Departmtent of Fishery






-79-                                           Annex 16
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT'S Past Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1989-1993, Income Statement
(Million Baht)
1989     1990      1991      1992      1993
Energy Sales (GWh)                           33,701    39,369    44,773    50,771    56,558
Increawe(%)                                    14.3      16.8     13.7      13.4      11.4
AveragePrice (B/KWh)                           1.26      1.26     1.26      1.22      1.20
Operating Revenue:
Sales of Electricity                        42,114   49,296    56,184    61,860    67,798
Other Revenue                                  535      1,114    1,031       842       665
Total                                        42,649    50,410   57,215    62,702    68,463
Operating Expenses:
FuellBulkPower                               19,544    24,138    30,499    32,449    35,144
Operaions                                     5,545    5,161     6,320     7,275     8,698
Depreciation  /a                              4,862    5,573     6,609     8,117     9,777
Total Operating Expenses                     29,951    34,872   43,428    47,841    53,619
Operting Income                              12,698    15,538    13,787    14,861    14,844
Non-Operating Expenses:
Interest Charged to Operations (Power)       4,321     4,340     4,288     4,584     6,048
Foreign Exchange Loss                         1,677     1,670    1,590     2,110     2,157
Revenue from Investment (-)                                                              0
Mining Income (-)                              928       883     1,391       942     1,413
Total Non-Operating Expcmses (Net)            5,070    5,127     4,487     5,752     6,792
Net Income                                    7,628    10,411    9,300     9,109     8,052
Rate Bae                                     95,536   133,357   139,255   156,069   184,319
Rate of Return(%)                             11.65     11.29     8.24      6.74      5.48
Operating Ratio(%)                            70.23    69.18     75.90     76.30     78.32
/s 0 Rcvalued Asws.



-80-                                           Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT'S Past Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1989-1993, Sources and Application of Funds
(Million Baht)
1989     1990      1991      1992      1993
Source. of Funds
Iternal Cash GOeration:
No Income Bcefore Interest                   12,698    14,922    13,744    13,906    14,277
Depreciai                                    4,862     5,573     6,609     8,117     9,777
Adjustmt of Non-Cash Items                     826    4,162      4,930     5,818     5,613
Total Generaed from Operations               18,386   24,657    25,283    27,841    29,667
Odthr Sources of Funds:
Capibl Contribution                            195        48        10       120        69
Surplus from Contribution                        0       104       115       135       149
Consumer Contribution                         1,424        0         0        88        0
Borro-ing                                    8,024    18,208    27,426    17,916   24,135
Inre/(Dcre) in Working Capital               (2,350)     880      (167)    2,865     1,126
Tobl Sources of Funds                       25,679    43,897   52,667   48,965    55,146
Avelication of Funds
NotSlnkingFundforRedemption                      0       839    (1,151)      885     1,063
CapibklReduced                                   0         0       213         0        0
Ddk Service:
Princilpa                                    6,957     7,178    13,368    12,860     8,853
Interea anLoen                               4,321     4,511     4,443     4,794     6,226
Deferred Intreat                                 0        61         8        51       10
Total Debt Service                           11,278    11,750    17,819    17,705    15,089
Capit Exp _n:                                11,094    26,603    30,426    21,984    30,303
IMC                                            711       860     1,472     1,843     1,483
Todal Capitl Expenditure                     11,805   27,463    31,898    23,827    31,786
Deveopmnt Expenditue                          1,032    1,215     1,614     2,628     3,430
Bonus                                            0     1,067     1,274     1,205     1,312
Rnittace                                      1,564    1,563     1,000     2,614     2,468
Invemat  in Subidiazy                            0         0         0       100        0
Total Application                           25,679   43,897    52,667    48.964    55,146
Debt Service Coverage (tim)                    1.40     1.65      2.21      1.72      1.39
Self-Flnanng Rabo (%) /a                     33.00     29.57     38.66     27.70     27.42
/a imaI cash genuratiol ks development expenditure, bonus, remittane, sining fund redemptlin, debt ervice snd
ehop in wosklg capital expresd as percentage of tbege yan' avrerge capital expendiue an power, irrlgatice,
min nd davdcqp.aL



-81-                                              Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
Lam Takhog Pump Storage Project
EGAT'S Pat Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1989-1993, Balance Sheet
(Million Baht)
1m       1990      1991      1992      1993
ASSETS
Fixed Axmob - Pboew:
Plant in Service (Rovalued)                 161,943  213.388   234,008   271,008   316,990
Lem: Deprecatdan                             54,313   73,959   82,896    97,101   107,967
Net                                         107,630   139,429   151,112   173,907  209,023
Work in Propam                               20,412   31,073   43,238    46,872    37,623
Total Fixed Asmo                            128,042   170,502   194,350  220,779   246,646
Not Anitx of Sinking Fund:
Property Iaurance                             6,717     3,159     3,651     3,985     4,360
Mtine Reclanatin                                         264       350       451       557
Total                                         6,717     3,423    4,001     4,436    4,917
Other Auits                                       0     9,070     7,152     7,693    9,592
Long Tom Invotmat                                 0         0        0       100        100
Currait Anust:
MigUlal nd Supplbm                            2,657     2,541     2,899     3,036    4,472
Acoounts Receivable                           7,467     8,730     8,820    10,510    9,107
Cash                                          5,456     6,054     7,074     2,363    2,697
Tobd Curnx* Anita                            15,580    17,325    18,793    15,909    16,276
TOTAL ASSETS                                150,339  200,320  224,296  248,922  277,531
LIABLrES AND EOUrfY
Equiy
Capital Ctariutim                             8,536    11,130    10,866    10,926    10,935
Surpiu firon Cc   _do.                        4,552     1,303     1,419     1,894    2,043
Roibaed Erinng                              35,646   49,529   55,800    61,355    64,577
Revaluatkm Re.rve                            34,516   54,118    53,364    63,469    67,701
Defcnd Forex Adjusnemt                     (11,715)  (12,754)  (10,978)  (13,630)  (14,125)
Total Equity                                 71,535  103,326   110,471   124,514  131,131
Inarunce & Mine Reclaumabco                   2,937     3,424    4,001     4,437     4,918
Lng Tom Dekbt- Not                           62,141    74,205    90,268    99,461   117,237
OCher Liablkies                                   0       186      173       212        199
Currat Libilties:
Payable                                       6,911     9,633    11,674    10,758    13,294
Currtlatoritkus                               5,656     8,191     6,331     8,036     8,737
Accruedlunit                                  1,159     1,355     1,373     1,504    2,015
Tobd Currm t Liabiit                        13,726    19,179    19,373    20,295    24,046
TOTAL UABILTRES AND EQUrTY                 150,339  200,320  224,296  248,922  277,531
DCkEquy                                        0.75      0.64      0.74      0.72      0.81
Currit Rato                                    1.14      0.90      0.97      0.78      0.68






-82-                                             Annex 17
Pape 1 of 6
ThI.ND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT's Projected Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1993-2001, Income Statement
(Million Baht)
1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001
Eergy Sales (CiWh)                    56,558   63,491    69,971    76,836   83,564   90,638   97,699   105,410   113,853
Increaa(%)                              11.4     12.3      10.2      9.8       8.8       8.5      7.8       7.9      8.0
Avragc Price (BKWh)                     1.20     1.23      1.32      1.33     1.54      1.58     1.72      1.87     1.92
Operating Rcveaue:
Sales of Eletricity                   67,798    78,348   92,452   101,967   128,122   142,664   167,735   196,879  218,199
Other Revenuc                           665       794      723       650       650      650       650      650       650
Tota                                  68,463   79,142   93,175  102,617  128,772  143,314  168,385   197,529  218,849
Opeating Expas:
FudIBulk Power                        35,144   41,002   37,027   42,848   46,561    56,682   60,265    58,847   63,300
Operatios                              8,698    11,648    19,796   21,240   23,090   24,267   27,812   32,314   35,471
Depreciatin   /a                       9,777    10,970   12,145   14,469   16,859   18,681    24,594   29,992   34,227
Total OpeCaing Expen;e                53,619   63,620   68,968   78,557   86,510   99,630   112,671   121,153  132,998
Operting Income                       14,844   15,522   24,207   24,060   42,262   43,684   55,714   76,376   85,851
Non-Operating Expns:
int ChargedtoOperaon(Power)            6,048    7,105    7,966    9,351    11,986    14,245   22,534   31,176   30,889
Foreign ExchangLow                     2,157    2,748     1,667    1,542     1,151      997       908      668       310
Reveaue from Iwvetnment)                  0     1,530      319       365      411       463       521      579       633
Mining income (-)                      1,413    1,783     1,318     1.757    2,127    2,381     1,810    2,506    2,855
Total Non-Operating Expenses (Net)     6,792    6,540    7,996    8,771    10,599   12,398   21,111    28,759   27,711
Net Income                             8.052    8,982   16,211   15.289   31.663   31,286   34,603   47,617   58,140
Rate Bas                             184,319  208,027  233,149  276,591   321,936  347,697  455,201   608,552  668,091
Rat.ofR  urn(%)                         5.48     5.83      7.12     6.13      8.90     8.65      8.84      9.16     9.10
OperatinRo(%)                          78.32    80.39    74.02    76.55    67.18      69.52    66.91      61.33    60.77
/a On Revaled Aots



-83-                                           Annex 17
Page 2 of 6
THlAIAND
LaIn Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT's Projected Financal Performance
Financial Statements 1993-2001, Sources & Application of Funds
(Million Baht)
1993     1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001
Source. of Funds
Internal CashOeerio:
Net Income Before nlterest           14,279    16,273   24,328   24,936   43,963   45,816   57,405   79,010   89,203
Depreciation                          9,777    10,970    12,145    14,469    16,859    18,681   24,594   29,992   34,227
AdjustmentofNon-Cashltems             5,613    5,934    5,546    6,383    6,714    6,793    8,210    8,210    8,135
Total Gerated from Operations        29,669   33,177   42,019   45,788   67,536   71,290   90,209   117,212  131,565
Other Source. of Funds:
Capital Contribution                     69        0         0       65       160        0        0         0        0
Surplus from Cntrlbution                149      170         0        0        0         0        0         0        0
DiapalofPowerPlunt                        0    17,140        0        0        0         0        0         0        0
Borrowing                            24,135   35,868   51,060   61,400   75,718   92,534   107,526   97,229   130,672
Increste/(Decre) in Working Capial    1,126   (5,501)   5,307       537   (4,317)   5,322   (2,967)  (6,245)        55
Total Sources of Funds               55,148   80,854   98,386   107,790  139,097  169,146   194,768  208,196  262,292
Apvlication of Funds
Net Sinking Fund for Redemption       1,063      293        24        0        0         0        0      (523)       0
De  Serce:
Principal                             8,853    8,918    10,446   12,086   20,374   19,206   32,497   47,217   63,475
Interet on Loan                       6,226    7,290    8,115    9,645    12,301    14,529   22,802    31,393   31,062
Defenred ntrest on Loan                  10       48        17       17        17       18        0         0        0
Total Debt Service                   15,089   16,256   18,578   21,748   32,692   33,753   55,299   78,610   94,537
Capial Expesdture:                   30,303   50,592   58,034   67,734   87,378   104,644   101,857   89,412   127,245
EDC                                   1,483    3,400    6,948    7,470    10,415    14,990   18,461    13,821    17,352
Work _conpleted /a                        0      379    5,440   (2,352)  (4,703)  (4,191)       154    3,137   (7,805)
Totl Capil Epditure                  31,7S6   54,371   70,422   72,852   93,090   115,443  120,472   106,370   136,792
Dvelopmnt ExpeLture                   3,430    3,919    4,024    5,198    5,446    5,410    4,266    7,352    9,025
Bonas                                 1,312    1,223    1,052    1,803    1,771    3,305    3,343       3,720    4,997
RemItace                              2,468    3,403    3,966    6,107    6,013    11,141    11,282    12,557   16,830
Invemat in Subsdiary                      0     1,390      319       81       86        95      106       111      ill
Total Applicaon of Funds             55,148   80,854   98,386   107,790  139,097  169,146   194,768  208,196  262,292
Debt Swvice Coveage (time)             1.39      1.49     1.77     1.50      1.66     1.52      1.29     1.20      1.07
Seif-Ficing Ratio (%) /b              27.42    23.21    27.37    25.00    25.09    31.22    25.00    25.00    25.00
/a Rq,mss  prev  yer' _upa eiamure d to dlay  pnroject h   _pma
/b b Is cm& gatiau lem de_mast eVendture, b-n, remae, iW1ag f-d roednpow, det ervie d chele to wokig capitl exned
u pcrcae of eW  yeam, avee eupal epeditre e pwer, ifatico, me  d devedp_at.



-84-                                             Annex 17
Page 3 of 6
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT's Projected Financial Performance
Financial Statements 1993-2001, Balance Sheet
(Million Baht)
1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001
ASSETS
Fixed Assets - Power:
Plant in Service (Revalued)          316,990  347,077  404,892  479,550  549,851   590,685  834,880  985,500 1,056,956
Less: Depreciation                   107,967  124,041   144,229   168,017  195,622  226,662  265,945   313,194  367,673
Net                                  209,023  223,036  260,663  311,533  354,229  364,023   568,935  672,306  689,283
WorkinProgress                        37,623   61,137   89,767  107,689   153,666  254,872   159,769   156,293  269,811
Total Fixed Assts                    246,646  284,173  350,430  419,222  507,895  618,895  728,704  828,599  959,094
Net Ascts of Sinking Fund:
PropertyInsurance                      4,360    4,775    5,464    6,298      7,257    8,262    9,815    11,659    13,579
MineReclamation                          557      682       769      892     1,028     1,170    1,319     1,474     1,636
Total                                  4,917    5,457    6,233    7,190    8,285    9,432    11,134    13,133    15,215
Other Assets                           9,592    11,202   12,371    13,892    15,126    16,197    15,172    16,933    20,832
Long Term Investment                     100    1,490     1,809     1,890    1,975    2,070     2,176    2,287     2,398
Current Asscts:
Matrils and Supplies                   4,472    3,300    3,839    4,280    4,625    4,630       6,593     7,452     7,416
AccountsReceivable                     9,107    11,139    15,198    16,762   21,061    23,452    27,573    32,364    35,868
Cash                                   2,697    9,177     1,500     1,500    3,715     1,500     1,500    1,500     1,500
Total Currcat Assts                   16,276   23,616   20,537   22,542   29,401    29,582    35,666   41,316   44,784
TOTAL ASSETS                         277,531   325,938   391,380  464,736  562,682   676,176  792,852  902,268 1,042,323
LIABILITIES AND EOUITY
Equity:
Cpital Contribution                   10,935    10,876    10,876    10,941    11,101    11,101    11,101    11,101    11,101
Surplus from Contributions             2,043    2,213     2,213    2,213     2,213     2,213    2,213    2,213    2,213
Retained Earnings                     64,577   68,371    77,424   84,899   103,649   120,348   139,052   166,119   198,825
Rcvaluation Reserve                   67,701    79,460   88,328   99,816   113,525   129,137   144,995   170,902  201,525
Deferred Forex Adjusment             (14,125)  (13,542)  (11,763)  (10,137)   (8,901)   (7,820)   (6,828)   (6,076)   (5,762)
Total Equity                         131,131   147,378   167,078   187,732  221,587  254,979  290,533   344,259  407,902
Insurance & MineReclamation            4,918    5,457    6,234     7,189     8,285    9,432    11,134    13,133    15,216
LongTerm Debt - Net                  117,237   144,878  183,771  224,797  281,310  341,347  401,656  435,410  478,168
Other Liabliltie                         199      149       132      115        98       80        80        80       80
Cumat Liabilities:
Payables                              13,294   15,661    19,664   21,448   28,561    32,141    34,386   38,147   45,046
Current Maturities                     8,737   10,366   12,086   20,374    19,206   32,497   47,217    63,475   87,914
Accrued Interest                       2,015    2,050    2,416     3,080    3,637      5,700    7,848     7,766     7,997
Total Currnt Liabillies               24,046   28,077   34,166   44,902   51,404   70,338   89,451   109,388   140,957
TOTAL LIABMLITIES AND EQUITY         277,531   325,938  391,380  464,736  562,682   676,176  792,852  902,268 1,042,323
DeWEquity                               0.81     0.90      1.03      1.14     1.22      1.30      1.35     1.24      1.16
Current Ratio                           0.68      0.84     0.60      0.50     0.57      0.42     0.40      0.38      0.32



-85-                                   Annex 17
Page 4 of 6
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT's Financial Projections- Assumptions
Revenues
1.          Power will be generated in accordance with the gross generation pattern, prepared by
the System Operations Department, which assumes that the Rayong Power Plant (fuelled by natural
gas) would be operated as a privatized supplier from October 1994.
2.          The revenue forecast assumes that demand will rise by an average of 8% between
FY95-2001 in accordance with estimates prepared in FY93 by the Economic Policy Department
based on "Load Forecast for the Thailand Electric System". Energy sales will grow by 12% in
FY94, 10% per year in FY95 to FY97 and by 8% per year in FY98 until FY2001. These
projections are basically extrapolations of recent trends checked against econometric models
involving assumptions on growth of the gross domestic product.
3.          The average price of electricity is about Baht 1.20 per KWh sold in 1993. A price
increase of about 9% would be necessary during the tariff setting period in FY95 (every three
years) in order to achieve an acceptable level of self financing for FY95-96. Price increases
averaging about 8% per year between FY97 and FY2001 would be required to keep the self-
financing ratio at 25%. EGAT's average electricity price annual increases, and self financing
ratios for FY95 through FY2001 are shown below:
| FY94 I FY95 I FY96 I FY97 I FY98 I FY99  [ FY00  [  FY01
Average energy price with   1.23    1.32    1.33    1.54    1.58     1.72     1.87    1.92
fuel adj. factor (B/kWh)                                               _        _ 0
Price increase (%)      _           9.6     0 3    16.1              12.1 _ 12.0    3.0
Self-financing ratio (%)     23      27      25      25      31       25       25      25
4.          There will be no change in the tariff structure before September 1994. Adjustments
will however be made to the price charged to EGAT's customers to recoup the cost relating to:
(a) changes in fuel cost, excluding lignite; (b) VAT; (c) land and property taxes; and (d) power
purchased from EGCO.
Fuel Cost
5.          The fuel mix is based on EGAT's least cost generation plan. All fuel costs, with the
exception of lignite, are included in the projections at cost estimated at June 1993. These expenses
are based on fuel prices used in the calculation of the present tariff structure as follows: (a) Heavy
oil at Baht 3.15 per liter; (b) Light oil at Baht 7.44 per liter; and Gas at Baht 68 per million BTU.



-86-                                    Annex 17
Page 5 of 6
6.          Although the cost of lignite has initially been included in fuel costs at the current
transfer price of Baht 501.54 per tonne, the projected profit of the lignite sector is eliminated also
through fuel costs. This effectively reduces the price of lignite to its production cost.
7.         If the level of demand for the different fuels varies from the projected, such variance
is likely to be met by a change in the projected level of power generated by heavy oil.
Operating Costs
8.          Generation expenses are based on current EGAT experience, with projections for
future plants based on historical costs for similar plants and escalated with inflation rates of 5 % per
annum.
9.          The projected purchased power is based on the generation pattern noted in para. 1.
Power purchased from EGCO of 7.7 billion KWh (the net generation of the Rayong Power Plant)
has been included in the projections at an average price of Baht 1. 15 per KWh. Power purchase
from Lao PDR's EDL is priced at Baht 0.95 KWh and from Malaysia's TNB at Baht 1.53 KWh
throughout the projected period.
10.        Transmission expenses are projected on the basis of an econometric model of
forecasting by relating unit costs and additions in line length and transformer capacity in EGAT's
expansion program.
1l.        General and Administrative expenses are based on current levels in the first year of
projection. Subsequent year's expenses are escalated with the local escalation factor at the rate of
5% plus an increase in real terms of 3 %.
12.        Depreciation is based on the straight-line method on revalued fixed assets.  The
average rate of depreciation is 1.33% for hydropower plants, 4% for other generating facilities,
2.5% for transmission lines, and 4% for substations.
Govermuent Remittance
13.        The rate of remittance to the Government of Thailand is calculated at 30% of EGAT's
net income (based on revalued depreciation). This is to date the highest tax rate levied by the
Ministry of Finance and is in line with the requirements needed for EGAT to qualify for a "Good
State Enterprise" status.
Capital Investment
14.        Projected capital expenditures are those estimated to provide the additional plant and
equipment required to meet the demand forecast, escalated in accordance with the latest projection
of inflation rates. These expenditures are projected in accordance with the power development
plan.



-87-                                Annex 17
Page 6 of 6
Sale of Rayong Power Plant
15.        The assumptions for the privatization of the Rayong Power Plant can be summarized
as follows: (a) date of privatization of August 1994; (b) EGAT will recover the effect of power
purchased from Rayong in the automatic price adjustment; (c) profit of Baht 1.5 billion (net of
EGAT's equity investment of Baht 2.5 billion) from selling Rayong will be booked as non-
operating income in the income statement; (d) the proceeds from the sale of Rayong will be used
for other capital investment rather than repayment of loans which financed the plant; and (e) loans
of the Rayong plant will remain in EGAT's books with interest on the loans capitalized in works
under construction.
Equity Contribution
16.        Equity contributions represent the Government of Thailand's reimbursement for
import duties on construction equipment and partial payment with respect to the irrigation portion
of multi-purpose dams.
Foreign Exchange Losses
17.        Deferred foreign exchange losses represent the profits and losses from exchange rate
variations on long-term debt. The projected figures are the amount on EGAT's accounts at the
end of FY93 less the incremental amounts which are scheduled to be written off over the
remaining period of EGAT's existing loans. The amounts shown in the income statement and
balance sheet reflect currency movements against the Baht.
Borrowings
18.        Future foreign loans have been assumed at annual interest rates varying from 3% to
9% with repayment terms of up to 20 years including from three to five years of grace. Future
local borrowings have been assumed at an annual interest rate of 11 % repayable up to 10 years
including three years of grace.
Current Assets
19.        Accounts receivables are projected to be approximately two months of revenues in
accordance with a government regulation affecting state enterprises.  Accounts payable are
projected at the equivalent of two months of total expenses, excluding depreciation expenses and
foreign exchange loss. On the basis of EGAT's future expansion plans, spare parts, materials and
supplies are estimated at Baht 1.2 billion and augmented by about 1% of pre-revalued net fixed
assets. Fuel stock for reserve is fixed at 150 and 35 million liters of heavy and light oil,
respectively.



-88-
Annex 18
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT Tariff Rates
Effective Date: December 1, 1991
1.    MEA
Energy Charge                                          1,4682       Baht/kWh
2.    PEA
Energy Charge                                          0.9630       Baht/kWh
3.    Large General Service
Monthly Charge by Time of Day Rate
3.1   Transmission Voltage (Voltage level of 69 kV and above)
Demand Charge
Peak Period       (18.30-21.30 hr.)        240.00      Baht/kW
Partial-Peak Period  (08.00-18.30 hr.)      32.00 Baht/kW
(Only demand in excess of Peak Period)
Off-Peak Period    (21.30-08.00 hr)   free of charge
Energy Charge                                            1.03 Baht/kWh
3.2   Primary Voltage  (Voltage level of 11 - 33 kV)
Demand Charge
Peak Period       (18.30-21.30 hr.)        305.00      Baht/kW
Partial-Peak Period  (08.00-18.30 hr.)     63.00 Baht/kW
(Only demand in excess of Peak Period)
Off-Peak Period    (21.30-08.00 hr.)   free of charge
Energy Charge                                            1.07 Baht/kWh
3.3   Secondary Voltage (Voltage level below 11 kV)
Demand Charge
Peak Period       (18.30-21.30 hr.)        356.00      Baht/kW
Partial-Peak Period  (08.00-18.30 hr.)      73.00 Baht/kW
(Only demand in excess of Peak Period)
Off-Peak Period    (21.30-08.00 hr.)   free of charge
Energy Charge                                            1.10 Baht/kWh
Minimum Charge
The minimum charge shall be computed as 70% of the maximum demand charge of the last 12-month
period ending with the current month.
Automatic Adjustment Mechanism
Should there be any fluctuations in expenditures that are not within the control of the Electricity Authority
resulting in the sale of energy at 2 stangs/kWh and above, electricity charge will be adjusted to increase or decrease
accordingly. This adjustment will be shown in the customer's monthly bill.






THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
EGAT's Investment Program *
(in US$ million)
FY95                    FY96                     FY97                   FY98                       FY99               FY95-99
Local   Foreign Total  Local   Foreign Total  Local   Foreign Total  Local   Foreign Total   Local   Foreign Total    Total
A. Thermal Plants
S. Bangkok CC #2              171       292    463                                                                                                           463
Wang Noi CC #1&2              434       676  1,110                                                                                                         1,110
Wang Noi CC #3                 172      289    461                                                                                                           461
Krabi Thennal #1                -         -      -    174        200    374                                                                                  374
Krabi Thermal #2                -         -      -       -         -      -       -         -      -    174       201    375                                 375
New Thermal #1                  -         -      -    733        683  1,416                                                                                1,416
New Thermal #2                  -         -      -    687        648  1,335                                                                                1,335
Ratchaburi Thermal #1           -         -      -    378        407    785                                                                                  785
Ratchaburi Tbermal #2           -         -      -    257        366    623                                                                                  623
Ratchaburi Thermal #3           -         -      -    293        400    693                                                                                  693
Ratchaburi Thermal #4           -         -      -    266        366    632                                                                                  632
New Peaking GT#1&2              -         -      -       -         -      -      49        99   148                                                          148
New Peaking GT # 3-9            -         -      -       -         -      -       -         -      -    177       354    531                                 531
Subtotal               777     1,257  2,034  2,788      3,070  5,858      49        99   148    351        555    906       -         -       -    8,946
B. Hydro Plants
Bhunibol Rehab #3&4             10       22      32      -         -      -       -         -      -      -         -       -       -         -     -         32
Subtotl                 10        22     32      -         -       -       -         -     -       -         -      -       -         -      -        32
C. TraXiui.
EGAT-TNB #2                    104       82      86                                                                                                           86
Trans. Expn. #9                 -         -      -    190        147    337                                                                                  337
Trans. Expn. #10                -         -      -       -         -      -     207        166   373                                                         337
Trams. Expn. #11                -         -      -       -         -      -       -         -      -                              229       183   412        412
500kV Tran. Expn.               -         -      -     101       142    243       -                -        -                       -         -     -        243
115kV Chiangnai-Hong Son        -         -      -      15         3     18                                                                                   18
500kV for Mae Kham #1&2         -         -      -       -         -      -        9        7    16                                                           16
500kV for New Thennall #4       -         -      -       -         -      -       -         -      -      -         -       -     237        69   306        306
Subtobl                104        82    186    306       293    S99      216       173   389       -         -      -      466       252   718      1,892
D. Iignte Mning
Mae Mob Mine Expn. #12&13       -         -      -      65        76    141       -         -      -                                -         -     -        141
Mae Moh Expn. Mae Kham #1&2  -            -      -       -         -      -       21        32    53      -         -       -       -         -      -        53
Subtotal                                         65        76    141      21        32    53       -         -      -                                194
E. Miscellaneous
Power Supply Greater Bangkok   -          -      -    149        167    316      149       167   316                                                         316
Total                       891      1.361  2,252  3308      3.606  6.914     2         304   590    351        555    906      466       252   718    11.380
Program Commitments






THA4AND
Lam Takhong Punp Storage Project
Economic Fuel Price for Optimization of EGAT Power Development Plan
(1994 Price Level)
Fiscadl      Natural Gas  a/                   LNG   a/   _             Lignite (Mae Moh) b/              Lignite (Sin Pun) b/     |       Import Coal c/
Year USD/MBtu  THBI/MBtu  % Inc. USD/MBtu | THB/MBtu   Inc. USD/MBtu [THB/MBtu |_% Inc.  USD/MBtu  THB/MBtu   % Inc. | USD/MBtu THB/MBtu | % Inc.
1994    2.06       53.56       -       3.92      101.92      -        1.12       12.83        -       1.61       18.73         -       1.93      51.00       -
1995    1.95       50.60      -5.53    4.05      105.31     3.33      1.12       12.83       0.00     1.61       18.73        0.00     1.97      51.90      1.76
1996    2.15       55.82      10.32    4.27      110.96     5.36      1.12       12.85       0.16    1.61        18.76        0.16    2.00       52.70      1.54
1997    2.20       57.08      2.26    4.42       114.91     3.56      1.12       12.87       0.16     1.61       18.78        0.11    2.03       53.70      1.90
1998    2.25       58.61      2.68    4.59       119.43     3.93      1.12       12.88       0.08     1.62       18.81        0.16    2.07       54.60      1.68
1999    2.25       58.60      -0.02    4.79      124.51     4.26      1.12       12.90       0.16     1.62       18.84        0.16    2.11       55.60      1.83
2000    2.26        58.74      0.24    4.98      129.60     4.08      1.12       12.92       0.16     1.62       18.86        0.11    2.14        56.50     1.62
2001    2.27        58.90      0.27    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.12       12.91      -0.08     1.62       18.84       -0.11    2.15        56.70     0.35 1
2002    2.23       57.95      -1.61    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.12       12.89      -0.15     1.62       18.82       -0.11    2.16        56.90     0.35
2003    2.20       57.24      -1.23    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.12       12.88      -0.08     1.61       18.79       -0.16    2.17        57.20     0.53
2004    2.19       56.82      -0.73    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.12       12.86      -0.16    1.61        18.77       -0.11    2.17        57.40     0.35
2005    2.12       55.12      -2.99    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.12       12.85      -0.08     1.61       18.75       -0.11    2.18        57.60    0.35
2006    2.11        54.90     -0.40    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.12       12.83      -0.16    1.61        18.72       -0.16    2.18        57.60    0.00
2007    2.10        54.63     -0.49    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.11       12.82      -0.08     1.61       18.70       -0.11    2.18        57.60    0.00
2008    2.07        53.90     -1 .34    4.98     129.60     0.00      1.11       12.81      -0.08     1.60       18.68       -0.11    2.18        57.60    0.00
2009    2.06        53.64     -0.48    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.11       12.79      -0.16     1.60       18.66       -0.11    2.18        57.60    0.00
2010    2.05       53.37      -0.50    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.11       12.78      -0.08    1.60        18.63       -0.16    2.18        57.60    0.00
2011    2.04       53.11      -0.49    4.98      129.60     0.00      1.11       12.77      -0.08     1.60       18.61        -0.11    2.18       57.60    0.00
Notes: a/ Estimated by PIT.
b/ Based on production cost estimated by Mine Engineering Departmnt.
cl Based on FOB price, estimated by IBRD.
Source: EGAT
m :>
0 a
o o
I.9



THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Fuel Price for Optimization of EGAT Power Development Plan
(1994 Price Level)
Fuel Oil (3.5% Sulfur)       Fuel Oil (2.0% Sulfur)   |     Fuel Oil (1.0% Sulfur)         Fuel Oil (0.5% Sulfur)              Diesel Oil
Fiscal.
YeFa  USDIMBtu  THB/MBtu % Inc. USD/MBtu THB/MBtu  % Inc. USD/MBtu  THB/MBtu  % Inc.  USD/MBtu  THB/MBtu   % Inc.  USD/MBtu THB/MBtu   I
1994    2.20       2.21       -       2.44       2.45       -       2.56       2.57        -       2.64       2.65        -        3.43       3.17      -
1995    2.20       2.21       0.00    2.44       2.45     0.00      2.55       2.56       -0.39    2.72       2.74       3.40      3.57       3.30     4.10
1996    2.23       2.24       1.36    2.47       2.48     1.22      2.59       2.60        1.56    2.89       2.91       6.20      3.79       3.50     6.06
1997    2.25       2.26       0.89    2.50       2.51     1.21      2.62       2.63        1.15    3.00       3.02       3.78      3.95       3.65     4.29
1998    2.28       2.29       1.33    2.53       2.54     1.20      2.66       2.67        1.52    3.13       3.15       4.30      4.12       3.81     4.38
1999    2.32       2.33       1.75    2.57       2.58     1.57      2.70       2.71        1.50    3.28       3.30       4.76      4.32       3.99     4.72
2000    2.35        2.36      1.29    2.61       2.62      1.55     2.73       2.75        1.48    3.43       3.45       4.55      4.51       4.17     4.51
2001    2.31       2.32      -1.69    2.56       2.57     -1.91     2.69       2.70       -1.82    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2002    2.27        2.28     -1.72    2.52       2.53     -1.56     2.65       2.66       -1.48    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2003    2.23        2.24     -1.75    2.47       2.48     -1.98     2.60       2.61       -1.88    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2004    2.19        2.20     -1.79    2.43       2.44     -1.61     2.56       2.57       -1.53    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2005    2.15        2.16     -1.82    2.39       2.40     -1.64     2.51       2.52       -1.95    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2006    2.11        2.12     -1.85    2.34       2.35     -2.08     2.47       2.48       -1.59    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2007    2.08        2.09     -1.42    2.30       2.31     -1.70     2.43       2.44       -1.61    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2008    2.04        2.05     -1.91    2.26       2.27     -1.73     2.38       2.39       -2.05    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2009    2.00        2.01     -1.95    2.22       2.23     -1.76     2.34       2.35       -1.67    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2010    1.97        1.98     -1.49    2.19       2.20     -1.35     2.30       2.31       -1.70    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
2011    1.94        1.95     -1.52    2.15       2.16     -1.82     2.26       2.27       -1.73    3.43       3.45       0.00      4.51       4.17     0.00
Notes: a/ Estimated by TT.
Source: EGAT
t1E
o 0



-92-
Annex 21
THAMlAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Rate of Return on EGAT Power Development Plan
(all figures in Baht million)
Cost Strcam                       Beaefit Strcam
Year     Capitl    OhM       FuI      Total  Incrmentt  Averag Seling Prec   Sdc       Nct
Cost      Cost     Cost     Cost    Energy         (c/kWh)      Revcnue   Beefit
Sale    Current  Constnt
(GWh)    Price   94 Pricw
1983                                  0.00                                   0.00     0.00
1984                                  0.00                                   0.00     0.00
1985                                  0.00                                   0.00     0.00
1986       1.46                       1.46                                   0.00    (1.46)
1987       0.80                       0.80                                   0.00    (0.80)
1988      23.10                      23.10                                   0.00   (23.10)
1989     315.26                     315.26                                   0.00  (315.26)
1990    1,125.34                    1125.34            4.8438   5.7285       0.00 (1,125.34)
1991     954.79    15.87   213.43  1184.09   5,404.0   4.8281   5.4004    291.84  (892.25)
1992     757.43    55.65   292.14  1105.22   11,402.0   4.6800   5.0269    573.17  (532.05)
1993    1,075.70    69.18   386.95  1531.83   17,189.0   4.6088   4.7931    823.89  (707.94)
1994    1,562.68    86.26   507.38  2156.32  24,122.0   4.6023   4.6023   1,110.17 (1,046.15)
1995   2,291.32   132.75   483.65  2907.72   30,602.0   5.4765   5.2158   1,596.14 (1,311.58)
1996    1,911.53   144.87   664.53  2720.93   37,467.0   5.6262   5.1031   1,911.98  (808.95)
1997   2,110.30   205.45   763.82  3079.57  44,195.0   6.3062   5.4477   2,407.61  (671.96)
1998   2,406.94   208.53   919.02  3534.49   51,269.0   6.4888   5.3385   2,737.00  (797.49)
1999    1,572.46   328.30  1,067.90  2968.66   58,330.0   6.9535   5.4481   3,177.88   209.22
2000     341.26   403.21  1,140.66  1885.13   66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  1,835.03
2001              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2002              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2003              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2004              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2005              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2006              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2007              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2008              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2009              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2010              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2011              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2012              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2013              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2014              403.21  1,140.66  1543.87  66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  2,176.29
2015   (4,446.54)  403.21 1,140.66 -2902.67   66,041.0   7.5485   5.6331   3,720.16  6,622.83
Economic Internal Rate of Return    12.03%
Note: All costs are based on 1994 price level.
Source: EGAT






-93-                                           Annex 22
THALAND
LAm Takong Pump Storag  Project
Capital Costs
(al figures in Bahit million)
Lam Takhong 4 x 250 MW                           Gas Turbinbs 11 x 100 MW
Year Units I A 2  Trn. Units 3 & 4  Trans.    Tobl   Unib 1-6   Tns.  Units 7-11  Tras.    Total
2x2S50 MW                      System  26250 MW   Syse  cos   6:10 MW   Sytm   5x1O0 MW  Sysem    Cost
1993                                             0.0                                             0.0
1994     262.2                                 262.2                                             0.0
1995     600.5                                 600.5                                             0.0
1996     1699.0                               1699.0                                             0.0
1997    3111.5    94.8                        3206.3     643.1                                 643.1
1998    2501.8   422.4                        2924.2    1243.4       0.6                      1244.0
1999     1199.9    54.1      23.6             1277.5    5637.8    125.9                       5763.7
2000      301.2               33.2     3.4    337.7      890.8    206.5       536.0            1633.3
2001                         306.6    183.4    490.0                         1036.1     0.6   1036.7
2002                        1453.6   386.7   1840.2                         4698.1   124.4   4822.5
2003                         529.0    50.6    579.6                          742.5   250.1    992.6
2004                                             0.0                                             0.0
2005                                             0.0                                             0.0
2006                                             0.0                                             0.0
2007                                             0.0                                             0.0
2008                                             0.0                                             0.0
2009                                             0.0                                             0.0
2010                                             0.0                                             0.0
2011                                             0.0                                             0.0
2012                                             0.0                                             0.0
2013                                             0.0                                             0.0
2014                                             0.0                                             0.0
2015                                             0.0                                             0.0
2016                                             0.0                                             0.0
2017                                             0.0     643.1                                 643.1
2018                                             0.0    1243.4                                 1243.4
2019                                             0.0    5637.8                                5637.8
2020                                             0.0     890.8               536.0             1426.8
2021      23.6                                  23.6                         1036.1            1036.1
2022       33.2                                 33.2                        4698.1            4698.1
2023      306.6                                306.6                         742.5             742.5
2024     1453.6               23.6            1477.1                                             0.0
2025     529.0                33.2             562.1                                             0.0
2026                         306.6             306.6                                             0.0
2027                        1453.6            1453.6                                             0.0
2028                         529.0             529.0                                             0.0
2029                                             0.0                                             0.0
2030                                             0.0                                             0.0
2031               94.8                         94.8                 0.6                         0.6
2032              422.4                        422.4               125.9                       125.9
2033               54.1                3.4      57.4               206.5                       206.5
2034                                  183.4    183.4                                    0.6      0.6
2035                                 386.7    386.7                                   124.4    124.4
2036                                  50.6      50.6                                  250.1    250.1
2037                                             0.0     643.1                                 643.1
2038                                             0.0    1243.4                                 1243.4
2039                                             0.0    5637.8                                5637.8
2040                                             0.0     890.8               536.0             1426.8
2041                                             0.0                         1036.1            1036.1
2042                                             0.0                        4698.1            4698.1
2043                                             0.0                         742.5             742.5
2044                                             0.0                                             0.0
2045                                             0.0                                             0.0
2046                                             0.0                                             0.0
2047                                             0.0                                             0.0
2048                                             0.0                                             0.0
2049             -277.0    -281.5  -359.3   -917.8   -4207.6   -187.6   -4558.1  -216.0  -9169.3
Costs based on December 1994 Price Lovels.






-94-                                       Annex 23
THAILAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Project's Economic Rate of Return
(all figures in Baht million)
Lagm Takhong 4 x 250 MW                       Gas Turbines 11 x 100 MW
Year    Capital   OhM      Inc. Fuel Cost (HFO)     Tota    CaIpital   OhM     Total     Net
Cost    Cost    Mil L   THB/Lt   Tot        Cost    Cost    Cost    Cc,t    Benefit
1993     0.0                                 0.0      0.0     0.0               0.0      0.0
1994    262.2                                0.0   262.2      0.0               0.0  -262.2
1995    600.5                                0.0   600.5      0.0               0.0  -600.5
1996   1699.0                                0.0   1699.0     0.0               0.0  -1699.0
1997   3206.3                                0.0   3206.3   643.1             643.1  -2563.2
1998   2924.2                                0.0   2924.2   1244.0            1244.0  -1680.2
1999   1277.5                                0.0   1277.5  5763.7            5763.7  4486.2
2000    337.7    105.3     11.3     3.5    39.0   482.0   1633.3   258.3   1891.6   1409.6
2001    490.0    105.3     16.8     3.5    58.0   653.3   1036.7   258.3   1295.0   641.6
2002   1840.2    105.3    15.8      3.5    54.5   2000.1   4822.5    258.3   5080.8   3080.7
2003    579.6    161.6    23.5      3.5    81.1    822.2   992.6   474.3   1466.9   644.6
2004      0.0    161.6    33.1      3.5    114.2   275.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    198.5
2005      0.0    161.6    33.2      3.5    114.5   276.2       0.0   474.3   474.3    198.1
2006      0.0    161.6    31.0      3.5    107.0   268.6       0.0   474.3   474.3    205.7
2007      0.0    161.6    32.8      3.5    113.2   274.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    199.5
2008      0.0    161.6    33.2      3.5    114.5   276.2       0.0   474.3   474.3    198.1
2009      0.0    161.6    33.5      3.5    115.6   277.2       0.0   474.3    474.3    197.1
2010      0.0    161.6    33.2      3.5    114.5   276.2       0.0   474.3   474.3    198.1
2011      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3    474.3    197.4
2012      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2013      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3    474.3    197.4
2014      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3    474.3    197.4
2015      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2016      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2017      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8    643.1    474.3   1117.4   840.5
2018      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   1243.4   474.3   1717.7   1440.8
2019      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   5637.8   474.3   6112.1   5835.2
2020      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   1426.8   474.3   1901.1   1624.2
2021     23.6    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   300.4   1036.1    474.3   1510.4   1209.9
2022     33.2    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   310.0  4698.1    474.3   5172.4  4862.4
2023    306.6    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   583.5   742.5   474.3   1216.8   633.3
2024   1477.1    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   1754.0      0.0   474.3   474.3  -1279.7
2025    562.1    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   839.0       0.0   474.3   474.3   -364.7
2026    306.6    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   583.5       0.0   474.3   474.3  -109.2
2027   1453.6    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   1730.4      0.0   474.3   474.3  -1256.1
2028    529.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   805.8       0.0   474.3   474.3  -331.5
2029      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2030      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2031     94.8    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   371.6       0.6   474.3   474.9    103.2
2032    422.4    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   699.3    125.9   474.3    600.2   -99.1
2033     57.4    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   334.3   206.5   474.3    680.8    346.5
2034    183.4    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   460.2       0.6   474.3   474.9       14.6
2035    386.7    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   663.5    124.4   474.3    598.7   -64.9
2036     50.6    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   327.4   250.1    474.3   724.4    396.9
2037      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   643.1    474.3   1117.4   840.5
2038      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   1243.4   474.3   1717.7   1440.8
2039      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   5637.8   474.3   6112.1   5835.2
2040      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   1426.8   474.3   1901.1   1624.2
2041      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   1036.1   474.3   1510.4   1233.5
2042      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   4698.1    474.3   5172.4   4895.5
2043      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8   742.5   474.3   1216.8   939.9
2044      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2045      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2046      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2047      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3    474.3    197.4
2048      0.0    161.6    33.4      3.5    115.2   276.8       0.0   474.3   474.3    197.4
2049   -917.8    161.61   33.4      3.5    115.2  -640.9  -9169.3    474.3  -8695.0  -8054.1
Not Present Value at 10% discount rate: B 2,142 million
Equalizing dicount rate: 16.27%






-95-
Annex 24
TLAND
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
List of Documents in Project File
Environment
1.   Environmental Impact Assessment of Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
- Khon Kaen University, March 1992
Volume 1-2       Summary Report
Volume II        Environmental Impact Assessment
Volume III-2     Recommended Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan and
Monitoring Program
Volume IN"       Environmental Economic Analysis
Volume V         Appendix
2.   Implementation Plan: Environmental Mitigation and Development
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project - Office of the Environmental Policy and Planning,
January 1994
3.   August 1994 Addendum to The Implementation Plan: Environmental Mitigation and Development -
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
4.   Public Participation Meeting - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand, March 1993 (in Thai)
Technical Information
Environmental Information
5.   Executive Summary: Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project
Environmental Assessment - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand, June 1994
Technical
1.   Feasibility Study on Lam Takhong Pump Storage Development Project -
Japan International Cooperation Agency, November 1991
2.   General Information: EGAT Power Development Plan, Revised PDP 91-01(1) -
Systems Planning Department (EGAT), September 1993
3.   Project Implementation Plan - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand, September 1994
4.   Economic Analysis of EGAT's Investment Program - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand,
August 1994
5.   Economic Analysis of Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project - Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand, September 1994






CHARTS






THAILAND
LAM TAKHONG PUMP STORAGE PROJECT
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
OrganiatIon Chart
IGENIERAL MANAGER|
|O ON MANENAVA 
AM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
I  POL cr  |    i AMoi  I ' -X Ifoo    POW f"    &t-wm            s       l'                  l
|  ptXNNG    |   | FlOCEAM=1TIO   |FT   OfTIN-  |            YTU        NINEIG|     OSRUTT  |   MNN 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ Fm  lx MTNBU    x    PCRI 
NT~~~~O
wH t. ,             iXH HHXggg
SA  'El pn                                            'E                E
90 H
E E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KU






EGAT Organization for Design of Lam Takhong
Superntendent, Lam Takhong
Pumped Storage Project
.I.
...............................................I....... ............................................
Assistant Superintendent, Lam Takhong
Pumped Storage Project                                  C
Specification                              Ecology Coordination
Section
................ .1.    . .........  .......................   .........  ............I.....................  ............I.........I.............   .......I.........  ....   ........... ....................  .............  ......... 1......... 
L Information Survey and                                    Civil Engineering                       .    Electro-Mechanical                           |   Project Coordination
Study Division                                         Division                                Engineering Division    I                                   Division
Geographical Survey                                   Structural Engineenng                              Electcal Engineerng                                 Coordination Report
Section                        j                      Section                          .                 secton                                            Section
Construction Materials                                    technical Engineering                        Mechanical Engineering                             Bidding Documents and
Survey Secti                                              Se 6 on                                           Secfon                                      Contract Section
Geochnical Survey                                     Hydraulic Engi eering                         Control System Engineerng                           Cost Estmate and Budget
Section                           1                    Section                          .                Section                     j                      Section                     1
Architectural Design
Section1






EGAT Organization for Construction of Lam Takhong
Hydr*   Power Construction
Department
Lam Takhong Pump
Storage Project
Consulting Engineer
{  Generai Construction                      Generatorinstalation I                          Turbine Installation
Project Section                               Project Section                              Project Section
..........    -         ............         ....  . . J.1.....   I. .. . .. . .. . ...   ..................I....................    . . ....   ........... - - - -   -- - - - - - . . . 1 - - - - - - - . . . .   .. . . .       . . . -  . . . . .    . . .       . . .
Engineer                                         Civil                                     Electrical                                  Mechanical                                 Administration                           Const. Coordination
Project Division                              Project Division                             Project Division                              Project Division                             Project Division                              Project Division
..............I..................          ,  .1.................. ,I1..................                        ........................                                                                       ...                 ........-...........     1...........           ..............      .......
Fiekd Engineer         | *                GeologY                            Control System  - Inst.    !  Hydraulic Instlltion                                          Account & Treasury                          Coordination & Report                        Legal & Public Relation
Project Section                              Project Section                               Project Sject Sectioect Sectin                                                             Project Section                               Project Section                              Project Section                                  Go
.....................I----                     ............... ........        .            ..... .............. ........ .  ...... .............. .................... ............................... I.............                                                            ...................I  ............................. ...........................................
Survey A - Laboratory                       Reservoir- Construction                           High Vol. Equipt &                                                                     Disbursement Checking                               Resettlement &                  .           Safety & Security
Project Section                              Project Sectin                        Communication Sys. lnst                                                                            Project Section                        D.  cupation Extension                              Project Section
Project Section                                                                                                                         Project Section
Environment                            Tunnel Constructin                           Power Plant Equipt. &                                                                     Procurement & Supply                                   Land Right
Project Section                              Project Section                          Power System Const                                                                              Project Section                               Project Section
Project Section
Power Plant Conet                                                                                                                               Personnel
Project Section                                                                                                                         Project Section
Service
Project Section






-99-
Organization for Implementing Environmental
Mitigation and Rehabilitation
.... ........   .....    ..    ..    . ....   ..    .......    . ........ ...... . .
Sub-Committee for Public Relation
Sub-Committee for Property Survey
Si Khu District
Sub-Committee for Property Survey
- Pak Chong District
Sub-Committee for Verification
and Remittance of Comensation
-Si Khu District
The Committee for             Sub-Committee for Verification
Minister of the Prime Ministers    Consideration of Assistance to  -   and Remittance of Compensation
Office                the Affected People andPak Chong District
Enivironmental Development                Pak____ Chong____District____
: _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                 . . . . . . . . . ......... .............................. .
Sub-Committee for Quality of Life
Development and Occupational
Promotion,
The Cooperatives Promotion
Department
............ ....      ........
Department of Fisheries
The Royal Forestry Department
The Royal Irrigation Department
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........               ...........................   ................LaTkhn
Lam Takhong
EGAT                         Pumped Storage
Hydroelectric Project
Office of the National Economics
and Social Development Board
Office of the Environmental
Policy and Planning






LAM TAKHONG PUMP STORAGE PROJECT (Implementalion Schedule)                                                                                         Page I
1994                         1995                         1996                         1997                         1998                         1999
ITEM/ACTIVITY                                                                       N D A I  i  AM A S 0 N                                         II) J F MA A MA J J AJ                 AAI        A S 0 N 1) J F MA A MI   J    A S 0     )IF IAA J     A S ()N D) J F IA A MA J I A S 0 N 1)
MANCVL WORKS_
Campd evacluations
Aces TuPowc      oowrhous      e                 1011                    11                                                                                                  lllfllli
Contract Award
Construction
Int   structure                                              - -          1- - - -                                                                                                           -   - - - - - - -






LAM TAKHONG PUMP STORAGE PROJECT (Implementation Schedule)                                                                   Page 2
1995                    1996                     1997                     1998                    1999                     2000
ITEM/ACTIVITY              J FMAAIMIIJ J AISONIDJ IFMA MJ J A SON D J F MA M IJ A S 0ND J F MA MJ J A SON D I FIMIAIMI  JAISON D J FMA MJ J A SONOD
TURBINE-GENERATOR & POWER
PLANT EQUIPMENT
Bid documents
Design, manufacturing & transportati zn_________ ____-__________                           ef                                 l0  
Tcsting & Commissioning
Unit I
Unit 2
HYDRAULIC EQUJIPMENT
Bid documents
Bid invitation & evaluation
Contract award
Dr-sign, manufacturing & transportatin



I



LAM TAKHONG PUMP STORAGE PROJECT (Implementation Schedule)                                                               Page 3
1995                   1996                    1997                    1998                    1999                   2000
ITEMIACTIVITY           J IFIMIAMIJ IJ JAS OINIDIFI FMIAM   I AISJOINIDJIF FMIAIMJ 1)JI ASOINIDI] IFM AIMJ J AISJOINIDJIF MA MIJ J JAIS1N DJIF FMIAIMJ I ASO0N D
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMSI                                                                                    II IIIIIIIIIIII
Bid documents
Bid invitation & evaluation
Contract award             ___________11           
Installation
Testing & Commissioning
Bid documents___________1Lllll                                                                             iiii    iiiii                                 llllI
Cotrc Iaward                                                                49liA fid Sftl
Installation               ___________1                                                              
Testing & Commissioning    ___________11           






MYANMAR                                                                                                                                       ' MAANMAR    1   K
|                               , _ ~~~~~~PMMoSAA.         ,                                                                             y                     7 .      ,N'
*x             / Cooi  g                          LAO PEOPLE'S                                                         L-
MMSAMSNO[                   l         . ^,~ '      N- 7               DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                    .t
,  MAC Af ~~~~~G r   sPiT 5   !                                                                          \          t ~~~~~~CAMODIA N-
,   CA3AMNGWMAA                          A MM4MMOA           )H
3 IMW    II         ,,..           31253     '                                         NO 7  tAM                                                              -
t        ,M_,;  ~*,,WAAM  2                                   () P0M  /                      35 MW                                                     ,
I  ''  ~~~~~~~~~~  3                                                                       NMO~~~~~~~~~LAYS,A
IU2UREGION/, 4                     -'    ,                  r                                            \
3  SMA,MA4O.     '&t'                       M                      tS,,. I. Ns   j                                  INDONESIA        3NNAOSS
t~   IdS9\$ 4 I 75MILj  '  j =    h l *AA                                            'AM PAIAA.2         I                     MAn. 'hsmAAMMA,M
,*1    sh _-.5   ttJ I                                 GAMAIMN_A1kis    4    M .
02'AAM I/M ,ohov  I-' tI3M  MM.MAA'3.'M'AM,M
shA Tn7i!uB1l#''0'J FAA                                           \- I        >Dt                           THAIIAND                      MA
E~~~~~          ~~~                       Ao. TNth   or~ '---'S-' g            ELETRIIT  GEEAIG,UHRT
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' /M F).    AA3 V NooNoW
X  llUs                                                                                                                sltOM111-                     lzDO  l
5t1bAl ~         OMM Ih9== <L                          CNA,OMW  iAM| CW  ,                                                                  WNM
Np~MMW                                                                   %' D')l
I A Pov    /1 w.a0 MW   t                                                                     VL   NORIH 1   A  1  ' N flAs M
7 JLR EG 1  N tfi    AhSmo.I,_ /t CA                                   7&RGQ                     2                 7  MA '            o P.,            og 
S/ ~~~~~~~~'-.y                                  'L'A \\A3       'A4AASACAMA MM                                 I2 olcdal.
'lSMOIMMAAMAA')   OM2    A> ,m'pro      . | 4 
340 5MW  AAA\S  *, 9   '.kSZL2                     NH               NMANMCAK
3     M-  J   i M3M.'                              N   ,t
A                                     ~~~~~~~THAILAND                 -
-"'. l<   -  AMhMMIMELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY
M,II'./AA,,  M310      4    SM 03240A G        .-OF  THAILAND
~~,  NM&AMM CA~.    ~             ,                   [AM TAKHONG PUMP STORAGE PROJECT
A  SMTWg - q~~~'.'A'"'5             -    -       -- ~500 .V TWA--IAA    L-W
__________                            ~~~~230 IV AAAM' -3 se
*             '~~~~~~~~ ~500 LV SAKbM-M,-
A                                   2~~~~~~~~~~30 kV SAAWAM,MM,
I  ~~~~~~~                            U.                                              315~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IVS  PiWM
A,A
T- P.                                                                                                        NORTH BANGK K3 Ss NA
*"RE~t    A~-  SML.,0h'.
'A                                                          NOBTO BANGKOK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOT  BNGO
&  a-    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kh   h
BAGKKNGKOKTHOBU0
PA.2A.Sog                                        nn.wMTRO OLIANURE
(A'A301                                                    \SM9MALAYSIA



