!,~~~~0 i
:tGReports .. .i-.. )  
155 ' .......... ~~~~~~~~~~~Report E0079
i:;
l~~~~r 0                                    ,              _
9                                                               ^~~~~~V



AUGUST 1994 ADDENDUM
TO THE IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION AND DEVELOPMENT
LAM TAKIHONG PUMPED STORAGE
PROJECT
Environmental Socioeconomic Division  Project Coordination Division
Environmental Departmnent  Lam Takhong Engineering Project



AUGUST 1994 ADDENDUM TO THE ITPLEMENTATION PLAN
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION AND DEVELOPMENT
LAM TA XHONG PUMPED STORAGE PROJECT
contents                                          Page
1.   Project Impact                                             1
2.   Rehabilitation Objectives                                  2
3.   Framework of Rehabilitation                                3
4.   Institutional and Administrative Context                   9
5.   Implementation                                            13
6.   Development of Alternative Farm Land                      16
7.   Organization for Implementation                           16
8.   Income Restoration                                        25
9.   Budget                                                    26
10.  Monitoring and Evaluation                                 26
EXHIBITS
1.   Conceptual Framework of Rehabilitation                     4
2.   Summary of Updated Socioeconomic Data of                  17
Affected People
3.   Updated Socioeconomic Data Affected-People                18
4.   Khoa Yai Tiang Village No.6 Home Plot                     20
5.   Existing Land Utilization in Project Site                 21
6.  Project Site in Relation to District Boundary              22
7.   Khoa Tian - Khoa Xhuanlan National Forest                 23
Reserve Area
B.   Project Organization for Implementation.                  24
9.   Budget Allocation For Environmental Mitigation            28
and Development Plan
i



ANNEZES                                           Page
1.   The Royal Forestry Department Ordinance Regarding        29
the Utilization by Entering, Passing Through,
Use of Pathways and Bring in or Let in the
*                   Farms Animals into the National Forest Area
B.E. 2530.
2.   Requisition to Entering or Passing or Use of Pathway   35
or Bring in or Let in the Farm Animals into the
National Forest Area According to Section 18
of the National Forestry Act B.E. 2507.
3.   Permit for Entering, Passing or Use of Pathways or       37
Bring and Let in the Farm Animals into the
National Forest Area.
4.   Permit for Land Utilization or Settlement in the         38
National Forest.
5.   Conditions Attached to the Permit.                       39
6.  criteria for compensation to Affected People              42
by EGAT's Projects.
7.   Description of Benefit from the Development of Lam       45
Ta Khong Pumped Storage Project to People in the
Project Area and Its Vicinity.
ii



1. *  PROJECT IMPACTS
The socio-economic impacts associated with the development
of the Lam Ta Khong Hydropower can be summarized as
follows:
1.1 Construction Period Imnpacts
Negative Impacts:
(1)  The creation of upper reservoir will require the
agricultural land which belong to 72 land users (74
plots of farr land).
(2) The affected land users will suffer loss of income
from the agriculture which has been estimated as
16,450 Bahts per household annually.
(3) The people inhabit near the construction area will be
disturbed to certain extent by noise, vibration and
dust from construction activities.
(4) The construction and related activities will pose
greater risks for accidents and epidemic diseases that
come along with immigrant workers.
(5) Fishery area in the lower reservoir will be disturbed
during the construction of the intake and outlet
structures at the reservoir.   Detail socioeconomic
characteristics of those affected people   engage in
fishery will be available upon the completion of the
additional study in November 1994.
Positive Imnact:
(1) There will be more work and income for local people
and near by in association with construction works and
reforestation with the project.
1



(2) The affected land users will receive property
compensation, occupational subsidy and benefit from
rehabilitation program that will substantially improve
their quality of life.
(3) The non-affected people living in Khoa Yai Tiang
Village and its vicinity will also be benefit from the
community development and occupational promotion
program.
(4)  The construction activities will result in more money
circulation in the area and the region which will lead
to economic growth and better living.
1.2 Operation Period INRacts
Negative Impacts:
(1) The land users of 74 plots of agricultural land will
be permanently lost their cultivable land and part of
their income.
(2) The fish productivity in the lower reservoir may be
decreased due to the ecological impacts caused by the
release and pumping operation.
Positive ImApacts:
(1) The access road linking the Mitraphap Highway to Khoa
Yai Tiang villages will be improved to a much better
condition.
(2) The environment in general will be improved and
revived to a better conditions.
2.   REEAEILITATION OBJECTIVES
The main objectives for rehabilitation program include:
(1) To improve the living condition and quality of life of
the villagers at Ban Xhoa Yai Tiang and near by.
2



(2) To provide the affected people with fair compensation
for the lost of their cultivated land, fruit trees and
agricultural products as well as the opportunity lost
before the rehabilitation can be achieved.   Fair
compensation is operationally defined to be equivalent
to "replacement valuet" that is mutually acceptable by
the Committee.
(3) To promote and develop occupation for the affected
families so that they can sustain an appropriate living
conditions.
(4) To allocate the rehabilitated land to the affected
land users for agricultural purposes.
(5) To provide the occupational promotion for villagers in
order that they will have stable earning from
agriculture and non-agriculture occupation.
(6) To assure that the standard of living and quality of
life of the affected people participated in the
rehabilitation program will be sustained in the
future.
3.   FRAMEWORK OF REHABILITATION
The conceptual framework for rehabilitation as depicted in
Exhibit 1 was laid out with ultimate objective based on
conceptual of sustainable development. The affected land
users or his and her dependents to be allocated with
rehabilitated land of 5 rai each will receive permit for
land utilization within the national forest area.  People
who wish to engage in animal hasbandary such as cattle
farming will also be permitted to use the national forest
area for grazing.  However, the normal procedure for filing
application to utilize the land within the national forest
area and permit issuance must be followed in compliance
with the Royal Forestry Department regulations.
3



Li'PL-T
PI FOR CO -ENSAIION                                   PLA FO  PUA'r Or- LIFE
PLrANs FOR ESTABLISHMET                ||  lXFOOCLAIR l
CILFARGEICULTURECCUIPEiRATIVES                       |       YIOONWI     
PLA-N FOR LAND ALLOCATIO
;OUTPU^T 
THE AFFECTED PEOPLE AND T1EIR FAMILE WDL REGAIN
TER PREVIOUS  STANARD OF LIVNG
EXHBIr 1 CONCEI'TUAL FRAMEWORK OF REHIABLITATnON'
4



Tenure arrangements for use of agricultural land, community
forest and grazing area by the affected people are being
defined  in the  following  context.    Rehabilitation  of
affected people is an integral part of the Lam Ta Khong
Pumped Storage Project approved by the Cabinet on 17
February 1994.  Implicit in this approval is the proviso
that normal administrative procedures must be followed, and
the understanding that normal procedures may possibly
include revision of approved plans for good reason.  The
use of forest areas for the project site and tunnel was
approved  by  the  Cabinet  17  March  1992.    Land  for
agriculture and community forest for the affected people is
included in the project site. Reafforestation of 7,685 rai
of the most degraded parts of the 19,375 rai Khoa Tian -
Khao Khuanlan National Forest Reserve Area in return for
use of the site area for project structures plus 450 rai of
agricultural land and 80 rai of community forest is an
integral part of the rehabilitation plan that was approved
by the RFD on 16 November 1993. Plan to use 10,600 rai of
national forest area for grazing has been an integral part
of the rehabilitation plan throughout the approval process,
including the Cabinet approval on 15 February 1994.  RFD
has been involved in this approval process and therefore
has tacitly approved the use of this land for grazing.
However, detail of this component will be finalized during
the implementation.
The aforementioned provisions implicitly recognize that the
affected people need to be provided with agriculture land
on a long - term basis as part of rehabilitation.
Coordination and arrangement of agreements between affected
people and RFD concerning re-allocation of land for
cultivation,   grazing  and  community  forest  is  the
responsibility of the Committee for Consideration of
Assistance to the Affected People and Environmental
Development.   Issuance of permits for utilization of the
land at the time of completion of the project construction
and turning over the land to the RFD by EGAT is the
responsibility of RFD. These permits will need to comply
5



with the provisions in the re.habilitation implementation
plan and would thus need to be based on long term
agreements between the affected people and RFD (RFD has
authority to make agreements for as long as 30 years).
English translations of the applicable RFD ordinance and
permit    forms for using RFD National Forest Area are
presented in annexes 1 - 5
The criteria for compensation to the affected people will
be determined by the appointed committee and sub -
committees taking into consideration EGAT's policy and
criteria for compensation to affected people by EGAT's
projects and activities as presented in Annex 6.
Preliminary environmental investigation of the Phase I
transmission was completed by Khon Kaen University in
December 1992. A preliminary environmental investigation
of Phase II transmission line is currently in progress and
scheduled to be completed in November 1994.  The Phase I
line will require a ROW of 27.3 ha. that includes 6.3 ha.
of Watershed Class 4B land, 7.B ha. of Class 2B land, 12.6
ha of Class 2A land and 4.4 ha. of Class lB land.  ROW
requirements of the Phase II line will become available in
November 1994.  The criteria for compensention for both
lines (Annex 6.) are as follows:
- Paddy field, cultivation land within the right
of- way : - EGAT pays 50 percent of determined
value (interpreted by EGAT to mean replacement
value) and the user is permitted to continue
cultivation.
- Orchard land : - EGAT pays 70 percent of determined
value (interpreted by EGAT to mean replacement
value) and the user is permitted to continue other
cultivation such as cash crop.
6



-  Home land : - EGAT pays 90 percent of determined
value (interpreted by EGAT to mean replacement
value) and the dwelling has to vacate from the ROW.
Structures within ROW will be paid with replacement
value.
-  Tower location : - EGAT pays 100 percent of
determined value (interpreted by EGAT to mean
replacement value) and the user or occupant must
vacate the premises.
Rehabilitation Package
The ultimate objective of the rehabilitation package is to
provide the affected people with better standard of living
and to assure that they can be self-sustained.
Based on the implementation plan for environmental
mitigation and development of the project, the following
compensation and rehabilitation package will be provided to
each land user.
(1)  Provision of  Amenities  and. comiensation  for  th
First Four Years
(1.1)  Cash compensation for loss of land should be
paid to the owner based on fair rate set by
the   Committee.  Fair    compensation   is
operationally defined and interpreted to
mean "replacement value" that is mutually
acceptable to the Committee and the land users.
(1.2)  Cash compensation for loss of trees should be
paid to the owners based on fair rate set by
the committee.
7



(1.3) Monthly allowance of B 2,000 per family
should be arranged to each affected family.
(1.4)  Provision of initial fund of  23 million bahts
to the  Agricultural Cooperatives.   Tk,e loan
should be arranged up to a certain limit for
each family.
(1.5)  Provision of off-farm  training occupational
to the affected families so that they have a
chance to be employed by the contractors, and
in the planting of forest areas, or by EGAT.
(1.6) Promotion of animal farming should be arranged
to the affected families including:
-  allocation of a reserve fund for beefcattle
farming for loaning at a maximum of 250,000
bahts per family, through the Agricultural
Cooperatives;
-  provision of forest land to accommodate the
animal farming which cover an area of 10,600
rai located around the village.
(2) During the Fifth to the Tenth Year
(2.1) Land of 5 rai for cultivation should be provided
free of cost to each affected family after the
construction  of the  upper   reservoir   was
finished.
(2.2) A supply of suitable species of orchard such as
jack-fruit,  mangoes  of  tamarind   should be
provided to each affected family for planting
on their land.
(2.3) During the beginning stage of fruit trees, the
provision of water for the villagers' plot (5
8



rai) should be arranged during the dry period.
The amount of water required is 40,000 m3.
A dripping irrigation system should be built.
(2.4)  A monthly budget of B 2,000 for maintenance of
grown fruit trees should be arranged to each
family during the unyield period.
(2.5)  Each affected family should be given preference
to  be  employed  in  the   construction  and
reforestation works.
(2.6) Continuous occupational promotion such as animal
husbandry and others should also be arranged
to each affected family.
(3)  After the Eleventh Year
At this stage, each family will have obtained benefits
both    from   animal  farming  and orchards.    The
implementation    from  the  eleventh  year  will  be
coordinated by EGAT and the Cooperatives to promote
occupational and manage continuous farming businesses.
4.   INSTITUTIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE CONTEXT
A coordination and supervisory committee has been appointed
by  the Minister  to  the Prime Minister  Office.    The
committee  responsibility   includes  the  coordination,
unravelling the arising problems, monitoring the work
progress of the mitigation programs, and proclamation of
work  results.       The  committee  is  constituted  of
representatives   from   all   concerned   and   related
organizations and the affected people. The committee has
ultimate authority to adopt the mitigation approach and
program.
9



The Committee will appoint sub-committees to undertaking
the works associated with the implementation plan and works
appropriately assigned by the Committee.   The context,
authorization and responsibility of the Committee and sub-
committees are presented below.
The Committee Authorization and Responsibility
Identified  as  "The  committee  for  Consideration  of
Assistance to the Affected People and Environmental
Development"   the  composition  and   context  of   the
responsibility are as follows:
(1) The Inspector General for Region 5 to serve as
the Advisor to the committee
(2) Nakhon Ratchasima Governor to serve as the
Committee Chairman
(3) Members of the committee are representatives from the
following organization and related people :
1.  The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
2.   Second Army Area
3.   Provincial Police Bureau-3
4.   Department of  Land
5.   The Royal Forestry Department
6.  The Royal Irrigation Department
7.   Department of Fisheries
8.   The Cooperatives Promotion  Department
9.   The Public Relations Department
10. office of the National Economic and Social
Development Board
11. Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
12. Si Xhiu District Officer
12. Pak Chong District Officer
14. Chairman of Nong Sarai Sub-District Council
10



15.  Chairman of Klong Phai Sub-District Council
16.  A Representative from the Affected People of Nong
Sarai Sub-District as appointed by the village
committee
17.  A representative from the Affected People of Klong
Phai Sub-District as appointed by the village
committee
18.  Director of Lam Ta Khong Hydropower Pump Storage
Project-EGAT to serve as Member and Secretary
19.  Head  of  Nakhon   Ratchasima   Provincial
Administration Office to serve as the Assistant
to the Secretary.
The Committee shall have the Power and duty as follows:
(1) To coordinate and extricate the problems as well
as to overseeing the work progress of the project
according to the implementation plan for
environmental mitigation and development.
(2) To determine criteria, venues and costing for
compensation to the affected people.
(3)  To consider the complaints and.issues raised by the
people, render defenite decision on the case that
the affected people can not be clearly determined.
(4)  To determine criteria and venues for land allocation
to the affected people as well as development of
conditions and qualification applicable to the
affected people which eligible for land allocation.
(5) To stipulate criteria and venues for quality of life
improvement, occupational promotion and the
establishment of the agricultural cooperatives.
(6) To ordain the rehabilitation and environmental
development plan for the area surrounding the
reservoir.
11



(7) To set up the effective and avant-garde approach for
a  continuous   public  relation  program,  and  may
employ the experts to undertake the task
(B) To appoint the sub-committees or working groups to
consider of perform any tasks assigned by the
committee.
(9) The committee shall report their works directly to
the Minister to the Prime Minister's Office
(Mr.Savit Bhotiwihok) in due course.
Expense   The expenditure for the meetings and other direct
expenses borned from this committee, sub-committee (s),
working group (s) and any person appointed or assigned by
the committee, are to be reimbursed from the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand.
Sub - committees
1.   Sub - Committee for Property Survey.
a) Sub - Committee for Property Survey - Si Khiu
District Area.
b) Sub - Committee for Property Survey - Pak Chong
District Area.
2.   Sub - committee for Inspection and Remittance of
Compensation.
a) Sub - Committee for Inspection and Remittance of
Compensation - Si Khiu District Area.
b) Sub - committee for Inspection and Remittance of
Compensation - Pak Chong Area.
3.   Sub - Committee for Public Relations.
4.   Sub - committee for Quality of Life Development and
Occupational Promotion.
12



5.   IMPLENENTATION
In  order  to  accomplish  the  above   objectives   an
implementation plan was prepared by EGAT and concerned
authorities and approved by the Cabinet on 17 February 1994
as component of LTK Project. This plan comprises 4 major
parts (i) environmental mitigation and development before
construction, (ii) environmental mitigation and development
during construction, (iii) environmental mitigation and
development after construction and (iv) monitoring and
evaluation) which include 15 separate but coordinated
plans. These plans are (i) public relations, (ii)
compensation, (iii) quality of life development, (iv)
establishment of cooperatives, (v) occupation promotion,
(vi) environmental mitigation and development during
construction,  (vii)  environmental  rehabilitation  and
development in the project area, (viii) conserving
fisheries resources of existing Lam Ta Khong Reservoir,
(ix) water resources management, (x) farm land replacement
(land allocation), (xi) environmental monitoring and
mitigation    evaluation    (EMME)    for    environmental
rehabilitation of upper site, (xii) EMME for aquatic
biology and fishery in Lam Ta Khong Reservoir, (xiii) ENME
for water resource management, (xiv) EMME for socio-
economic aspects and (xv) ENME for public health aspects.
13



The 5 plans with the most direct influence on affected
people are summarized below.
Plan             Budget     Responsible    Time Frame
(mil Baht)    Agencies       (Yrs)
1. Compensation       42.00  The committee         1.5
2. Quality of Life    21.65  The committee          8
Development
3. Agr. Coop.         24.43  Department of Coop.  1.5
EstabaLishment
4. Occupation         23.83  The committee        11
Development
5. Land Allocation     7.00  The Conmittee         3
Recently updated socio - economic data of the affected was
developed as presented in Exhibit -2 (Summary of Updated
Socioeconomic Data of Affected People), Exhibit 3. (Updated
Socioeconomic Data of Affected People). The locations of
land plots and house plots on the project site, that are
assigned to the respective affected people, are presented
in Exhibits 4 and 5. The location of the project site in
relation to the district boundary is presented in
Exhibit 6.   Exhibit 7  presents the boundaries of the
19,375 rai Khoa Tian - Khoa Kthuanlan National Forest
Reserve Area.
EGAT would propose to the committee that people who receive
part of their income or subsistence from the harvesting of
LTK. reservoir fish be identified and registered as part of
the ongoing study of Lam Ta Khong fisheries and aquatic
environment that will be completed in March 1994.
14



Registration will facilitate (a) the identification of
beneficiaries of the fisheries protection and monitoring
efforts, (b) the evaluation of any fisheries - related
claims that may emerge in connection with the construction
or operation of the project and (c) the linkage of
particular affected individuals with mitigation measures
(such as floating net aquaculture) that can be directed
toward particular families.
Affected persons have two avenues for appealing and
redressing complaints and anguishes. The first is through
the Committee for Consideration of Assistance to the
Affected People and Environmental Development. The-second
is through EGAT.
EGAT would propose to the Committee that the schedule for
the land allocation plan be amended in accordance with the
following reasoning. The existing schedule includes one
year at the end of the construction stage for "area
improvement", the following half year for "dividing plots"
and nothing prior to this but a half year of "work
preparation".    This implies that the method of spoil
disposal  (especially  compaction)- may  receive  little
attention  throughout  most  of  the  construction  stage.
Inadequate compaction during this time could possibly
result in such poor water retention capabilities and losing
of soil nutrients that agriculture and forestry would be
very difficult to establish. Therefore, area improvement
in the form of grading and compaction should be an integral
part of the construction stage and should begin several
years earlier thaa presently planned - i.e. at the start of
the construction stage. In addition, the half year periods
for work preparation and dividing plots seem longer than
necessary and could be shortened for the purpose of
initiating planting at an earlier date.
15



6.   DEVELOPMENT OF ALTERNATIVE FARM LAND
Definite farmland to be allocated to the affected people
have been designated.   These farm land will be provided
with drip - irrigation. Water for irrigation may be drawn
from  the  rehabilitated  weir  and  farm  ponds.          The
rehabilitated weir will be maintained by the community
development committee. The removing of sediment to sustain
the storage capacity therefore will be undertaken by the
villager with, financial support from the community
development fund.
7.   ORGANIZATION FOR IMPLEMENTATION
The appointed committee for consideration of assistance to
the affected people and environmental development on May
17, 1994 will carry out the rehabilitation programs
accordingly.   Detail of the committee power and duty is
presented in Section 4.  The district administration has
been officially appointed in the committee and sub-
committees which will assure the fair compensation and
profit to the affected people.  The project organization
for implementation is depicted in Exhibit S.
16
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



EXHIBIT 2
Bummary of Updated Socioeconomic Data of Affected People.
*  Total Number of farm plots                                  92
*  Number of affected farm plots                               74
*  Number of Land Users                                        72
(2 persons holding 2 plots)
*  Land Users inhabit on Khoa Yai Tiang                       43
(42 households)
*  Land Users  residing out of the area                       29
*  Total number of families involved                          57
(34 households are single families and
8 households are multi - families)
*  Total annual average income per family                40,910 Baht
*  Median annual income per family                       38,640 Baht.
*  Average annual income from agricultural                4,585 Baht.
produced from farm land in 1993.
*  Number of people for the 57 affected families            180 Baht
*  Number of people in work force                            80
17



EXHIBIT 3
Updated Socioeconomic Data of Affected People C3uly 1994)
1.   Project ImDact
The creation of the upper reservoir will utilize the
agricultural land of 74 plots which 72 land users have been
allowed to utilize the land. Off these 72 land users, 43
people (42 families) are inhabiting in Khoa Yai Tiang
Village No.6 and 10 while the other 29 and land users are
residing in other villages of different sub-districts,
districts of Nakhon Ratchasima or different province.
2.   Households structure
Most of the affected land users (34 households) are single
family households while only 8 land users are multi-
families  households.    Therefor,  the  total  number  of
affected families are 57 families with 180 people, an
average of 3.2 people per family.
3.   occunation and Income
Off the 57 affected families (180 people), less than half
of the population are in workforce which comprise of 80
people who earn the income while the rest of 100 people are
children and the olders.
Due to the drought during the last three years, most of the
people turn to non-farm earning other than agriculture.
More than half of the workforce people engaged in wage
earning and thatch roof making. About 32 percent of the
people still cultivate their farm land while only 7 people
engage in animal husbandry. Three people are involved in
small trading.
18



Sources of income for those affected people can be
described  as  locally  earning  and  outside  support.
Approximately 57.9 percent of their incomes earned locally
and about 42.1 percent are supported by emigrant workers.
The annual average income per family from the two sources
of income is estivated to be 40,910 Baht which the annual
median income is approximately 38,640 Baht.   About 62
percent of the affected families reported to be in debt
where the Bank of Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
is the major source of loan, the source is private off
system loan.
4.   source of Cooking Fuel
More than half of the people use fuelwood and charcoal in
everyday cooking. The affected villages have been recently
electrified, consequently it was reported that about 33
families utilize electric rice - cooker. only 9 families
use LPG for household cooking. Forest area in the vicinity
have been a good source for chip wood and limbs.
19



r4I                 I '11                        IC    T\8\  hoa Yai l'iang Village No.6
ilil 1 1 1 | t \ ] t BHome Plot with Land User Nurb-r
86 __ 1   3 1 16
|  temple
.~~ ~  ~        ~      ~~~~~ -- I  I 



ENTBrT S
N
,&-               Existing Land Utilization In Project SHe
1 10,000
. -: Z-Forest Fire Control Office
S ~~~~~~.4*                          ..,1"' ll' nsulil .............,,......  .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .
.~~    84    *'~..........
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wier         cruybhi2)
.::  ~   ....*    .. *.9~ 9O~ 91S92 1        Khoa Yal Thiang Village
..... .                     ~~~~~~~~Farm Plot Utilization
.~~~~~~~                                                 -
21Surveyed on October 1991
J4   ~  I~9rl~aFruit Tree
wbiWang*i Cash Crop
21 



5$j1        ,             it     .qtr
rim *-''    *,..                   t    .jLIsIiiei  11   I
jei      (IUEEa II  hmIV  aaiaa
.%~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                m
PAk Chong  / z-&        andSi olOi,u 1
-   .        D     r                     Di strict
--  ~~  )11q     -v  1
D   Area for raising cows and oxen 10.600 rmi
f=      Area for constructici or Li in ra Khonig Pmnttpcd Storage P"roject 1,364 ra. i
--  District Boundary
EXHIBIT 6    Project Site  in  Relation  to  District Boundary
za



IJ ' j '
!          ;JIflin;lllPllYlzll              'A 
-u Ill3Jro omn..2tJ'                                              R   X]
§ ]    ECHIBIT 7.,                                                                       '~ 
KHOA TIAN - KH0A KHlJANLAN        ^)           1<>                                        Jn
JATIONAL FORSr RESERV.E AREA           Z >                     j  jl        <                    }
19,37S rai                     asI/r,, 
!        2   i.y !'11l'112     ,~~~~~~~~~~2 



IWIIDIT c
INSMIUTDNAI. CONfmEX  OF EMVIRONMmNTAL MMGAIlON AND DIEVElMUIfNT
FOR IAbl TAINONG rwr! srosAGE rRoJECT
f   Tee in leorUtbeh Pa..Uab4bli.tlsok 0m
flu CouukiEa for Coaaiderationf AhLace la lbg                                   i ElariAty UtpCraliBANAwiIy ofThulkrnd
AlTected People and Enviro.Ze"tl Devkpmentl
Sub-commat  (cc Propetr Su-ey                            j  Depaitmracts ltE ievposbility of            Depazitmcts for resposibilty of
Sub-comm1et frr irad irrimianad rtmin.nn                 I  Envi Iro.ulallmpactlMilit8ion               ConmctiucoI
icogmpevzstio                                J          - Enjirovwtnual Depaulucat                 - Iydro Power Construnwion Vparlucl                 L      Law T&ko,J rt mpcd 51t0556
IS* -coomuift for pubflieIlaiions                           - Sunvey acd Ltnd Dupvi,ment               - Tnasminsions Syserm Consi uetion Deprnrtenl              P,ojeel E.lheeulmrs
SII-mIZiMr Cfor Onality Or li1 Dpc:lopmeni               |  - Public Retioes Dtpnment                  - Lam TakhoeO Pumped SiorFe Prqect, Construction
audo=eupatiozalhormotuio                     !                               - etC                  at.
ConsuSlting  u5
I Enizotimeotal lmpani MkipIioin A Dev.Iopmern Work1,                                                                                   PecjUa Comstrucloa Worub
ltprept uoed by al coecwrn.d aLeines asd arteeted people
Le. - Tb. Coopemties Preomion Dupanmei               - OfiWe, .r:be NiIstiobe  EcOnomks *sad
- Depanrmena o Frbhuies                            Sorial Devewlpmclt Board
- Th Roal Foresry DepanmenS                      - Oice of the EoYiaonmetRI Polic and PlannIng                                                                            Eaviroamedtal DepunmenI
- T'b Rto.al Iniosticn Depazimeot                                                                                                                                          16 AusSul 1994



8.   INCOME RESTORATION
The benefit from the implementation of the Lam Ta Khong
Pumped Storage project to the affected and non-affected
people is presented in Annex 7. During the first 6 years
of the project,   the affected people will be subsidized
until their regular earning from agricultural production
and other occupation can be restored.
Land deed can not be issued for the national forest area.
However, the affected will receive a permit to inhabit and
utilize the allocated land within the national forest area
according to the National Forestry Act B.E 2507. Permit to
utilize the permissible area for animal grazing in the
national forest area will also be given to those who wish
to  participate  in  animal  husbandry.       The  English
translation of these documents are presented in the Annexes
1-5
The possibility of people immigrate from nearby national
park area into the vicinity of the Lam Ta Khong project
area would be difficult since the permissible and
cultivable area is limited, Permission to inhabit or land
utilization within the national forest area must follow
similar process as those affected people but the chance to
obtain the permit will be slim. The forest encroachment
will be controlled by the forest protection unit of the
Royal Forestry Department. The community forest will be
managed by the village committee to protect the over
cutting.   The villagers has been collecting fuel wood
from the forest before, however after the implementation of
Lam Ta Khong Project the community forest will be utilized
as the source for fuel wood.
Occupation investment can be cbtained through the village
agricultural cooperatives which can cover all affected
people with initial funding from EGAT in the amount of 23
million bahts without   interest.   Such amount of cash
should cover all inhabitants of Khoa Yai Tiang who
25



participate in the occupational promotion program.   The
grace period has been set for 4 years with loan duration of
15 years.- The regular rate of interest for agricultural
cooperatives will be applied here.
9.   BUDGET
The budget allocation and cash flow ior the entire period
of project development starting from 1994 to 2008 is
presented in Exhibit 9. The revision of budget for EMDP
can be accomplished which the escalation of budget can be
drawn from the contingency proportion of Lam Ta Khong
Project.
10.  MONITORING AND EVUATION
The monitoring and evaluation plans has been arranged for
all aspects of EMDP which is described in detail in the
Implementation Plan. The normal procedure is established
where the responsible agencies or committees which carry
out the implementation program will report the work
progress to the office of Environmental Policy and Planning
and to the office of the National Economic and Social
Development Board. These two organizations will monitor
and evaluate the work through the report and site visits
periodically throughout the project timeframe.
Subject to mutual agreement with OEPP, an independent
monitoring and evaluation agency would be engaged and
socio-economic monitoring be extended from B years as
presently proposed to at least 11 years, in order to cover
the final years of rehabilitation.
The socio-economic monitoring would inter alia include
parameters:
- Payment of compensation
- inclusion of affected person in cooperatives
- allocation of land
26



- family income levels of affected persons (include
registered fisherpersons.)
- employment of affected people for project construction
or rehabilitation
The aquatic biology and fisheries monitoring would inter
alia include parameters:
- number, species and sizes of dead fish in the upper
reservoir
- number and production of floating net aguaculture units
in the lower reservoir
- production and species composition of project sponsored
hatcheries and nurseries
The forest rehabilitation monitoring would inter alia
include parameters:
- detailed large - scale maps of areas to be reforested
- sources and availability of nursery stock by size and
species.
- number, area and species composition of planted trees
- procurement and installation of drip irrigation
- equipment
- survival of planted trees
- frequent and systematic photographic documentation of
the growth and condition of surviving trees
- arrangament for protecting trees from cattle
The construction stage monitoring would inter alia include
parameters throughout the Construction Stage:
- Water consumption
- Stockpiling and storage of topsoil
27
la



s                                                                                            ' It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UKiET ALLOCArtoN
FOR WLRON2IEINTAL RaclATION ANeD DEVELOPMuENiT PLAN (DIUII
LAIT AlDIONr TUN' 510tMAGE PROJECT
DEK21PTION;                             --       _                                                       UFSc'AJ. YAR                                                                                                    TOTAL           Ft;SP1
1  rtacoscinunoNDoor lGe~~~~~~~~104                   loes es               -7o-sy    i 1rl  ,111"                mi                                 2r-a                    2005   n' 5.~   Z° 7   -! w                                         A lf
IDP                                                           r too-L  7w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   2,o,o
* 1.2 WOIAUY of uO  UIVFA Ml? ffr IIA%                                         ___1_______7______                                                                                                                                                 214,0.00ml,
1 I P rAX FOR iiTAitLUENM   ?COEStiMiTtorv 21330900                                                                                                                                                                                                       cmleo  _I_rs eeeltt
I.1 fArMTONAL. 0bC14ufl.'; rIAN                      a100       2020        22.0         .1.0        ,0.0        .1,0       .1,0~*   ,3             100        l.i.000    1,170.9900                                                        03J70,no flU COIN
Ii rbZIL'rnN DSCL OUI.10010?                                           1230         2.001      02.003      52.000 
:s rUvw.DtoL  f Wm5tr a SVss rcuLunom                         6i n0             0 '2.00                    00*,000                                                                                                                                 900   wnit Of
10 rt0rVL'.ToIO 00iiE All ot a lE 05623ft            _     _L15f  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  62.50  ____________ '__    _____a__.;                                               _                                        ._. _'a    leeo'
11 PZVIXTIOO.UCOI$0110.'OADIVILOP.DFTLOJO1C        ~~~62.606    02.100      02.500      822*0                                     ______________A___1_
2.0 WAOWIAN OfI 11 5AL111A.%DIMIW OFN 07                              2.900       03,90       52.10      62.500
?OOTcosiTRwcflQO4 DOLOyTUI
s *Urte-er03tt1r6t4 DS                                                                    _____                       -____                                                   __________________
2.1 Lr'V.IrAJnUTATIONAD OY'eP.L*eD0*fLeTAVIS           6.21e.075  ioa eo17.U0    x .0         .90                  5,00.152    4,113,60.0  0.90&00    3T.11.601    2,a0i020    0L...290    0.103.05     7,,                                     U e010  2  00    300200  rU D
4.342.000  192.169                                                                                                       7,777, -30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.710.000 01R.0 
2. 13W20 PREIICNUM0V214GIUUCQNSIAOATDOO L120           1.00,010I4,262.00                     052.050      00460      012.00     U2.1500                                                                         _________.& e
1,0 L%.%1DALLCCAnIDi'im 
IL YIDoGlrenoSnL -0 C'O    '-1_13-                                                                            - AL 
4, 91SOESIO A m02n.  L2V001TAL.A________
I. DC iUPLVMOOZ.  OD                                     1 0t0 T04.095           2n0         215,000    a25,0l    S011,0       70.05                                                                            _       _eo  | -    --                    opp
4.2LrtxyosLA.I  ntQrVittolesM s-DnsntEtu               Tagfieel - sftiAgl       669.6001    *|$J¢      st$          441.11     *Ft@          |           se &to'esl  &CA0                                                                       SAt4,i  outi
XJDMlFtxstottwlGuettilhsesbot7 t i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                            j                                                                             Fn|Jzt  ria7ut i 20 el|n
Re4.RES   CO.Nt'c'CtES R2t E      P  II PIOVI.7D ES1 nEu PROZRCT 31J905T           ns con ru:  miCuo.u12 O tc,sCo,          s miF>A7121OF8TANC"tI) fl  AF              .thW   I'EPLR
EGAT: UECThICTrY ODRATIN4O ATHIORTY OFW lLAND                                              DEW; 1DAK1TMNT OF FSIkIES
ODP   OFCEr OFT TMl      OVME?TALPOLICYAND N PL)            G                              RID-. ROYAL WRIGATION0EPARTh0M
KM: ROYAL FORISTRY  DEARTMENT



ANN=
The NovEl For-estr  Detr-taunt Ordinace Regardinue  the
Utilisation by Enterinq'  Passxiza Throuah. Unso of Pathways
and Brima in or L-t in the Farms Animals intto the
Nationl FoS&ut At..a 2530.
Empowered by Section 18 of the National Forestry Act.
B . E. 2507 which is amended by the National Forestry Act
(No.3) B.E.2528, the Director-General of the Royal Forestry
Department has issued the order  as    follows:
Article 1.
This ordinance shall be called "The Royal Forestry
Department Ordinance Regarding the Utilization by
Entering, Passing Through, Use of Pathways and Bring
of Let in the Farm Animals into the National Forest
Area B.E. 2530.w
Article 2.
This ordinance shall come into effect the day after
ita publication in the Government Gazette.
Article 3.
The Royal Forestry Department Ordinance Regarding the
Passing Through or Use of Pathway of Bring in or Let
the Farm Animals into the National Forest Area B.E.
2524 shall be repealed.
All other regulations and orders,  which has been
ordained in this ordinance, or in conflict with, or
contrary  with,  shall  be  superimposed  by  this
ordinance.
Arwticle 4.  In this Ordinance
" Pathway n means all kind of -routes within the
National Forest Area, but not include ways as
stipulated by Highway law.
29



n Farm Animals " means elephant, horse, donkey, mule,
cow, water-buffalo, goat, sheep and pig which has
owner.
Article 5.
As it appear to have regularly access into any of the
National Forest Area, the Regional Forestry Official
shall submit an opinion to the Provincial Governor
where such National Forest located in order to
establish the control of the entering or passing or
use of pathway within the national forest area.
Pathways which can be allowed for access or passing
are to be determined and proclaimed.
The proclamation of the determined pathway as stated
in the first paragraph is to be posted at the head
village home, the sub-district office,   the sub-
district council and at the district office where the
national forest located, and the proclamation is also
to be posted near the landmark or placard or the
indication sign of the national forest boundary
Using of other pathways that are not specified in the
proclamation can be done only by submission of the
request at the regional forestry office where such
national  forest located.  The form of request is
attached with this ordinance. The requested pathway
should be clearly illustrated in the map or chart and
state also the reason why the designated pathway can
not be used and the necessity to utilize the
requested pathway.
article S.
The person who utilize the pathways according to
Article 5 must comply with the following conditions:
30



1)   Do not bring in the wood cutting and forest
clearing equipments or tools into the national
forest unless permission specifically given by
the official.
2)   Only use the specified pathways.
3)   Do not whatsoever mutilate the forest condition,
trees of forest product, or impair the soil
condition, rock, gravel or sand.
Article 7.
The regional forestry official is to carefully
consider the request and taking into account the risk
to  destroy    the  forest  condition  and  forest
encroachment, or the chance that such request may
associated with transferring of illegal substances
through the national forest. The distance between the
requested pathways and the pathways which has been
specified in the proclamation should be considered in
terms of the necessity. If the requested pathways is
deemed appropriated permit can be issued using the
form attached to this ordinance. On the back of the
permit, map or chart should be presented with the
illustration of the requested pathways and duration of
the permit. In the case that the request is denied,
the proponent should be informed in written within 7
working days after the date of such decision.  Order
of permission, or denying by the regional forestry
office is cbnclusive and to report such order to the
Royal Forestry Department imediately.
Article 3.
Request must be submitted to the regional forestry
office to utilize any pathways within the national
forest area by motor vehicle or tractor, by using the
request form attached to this -ordinance. Include with
the request, illustration of the area wish to use,
31



date and time, registration number of such vehicle or
tractor are to be presented.
The regional forestry official as stated in paragraph
1 shall issue the permit using the form attached to
this ordinance in which the designated vehicle or
tractor registration number along with dated and time
allowed to use such pathway to be specified as
appropriate in the permit.
In the case that it is necessary to utilize different
vehicle or tractor other than indicated in the permit,
the proponent mset notify the temporary changing of
vehicle to the official before using such vehicle.
When such notification is accepted by the official,
the temporary vehicle registration number is to be
recorded on the back of the permit including the
duration of the temporary changing of the vehicle.
article 9.
The national forest which embody (1) the area suitable
for animal grazing or (2) contain the area that should
be restricted from animal grazing, must proceed as
follows:
The regional forestry office must consider and give
opinion to the provincial governor where such national
forest located in order to arrange for the control of
the utilization of the national forest area for animal
grazing.   The permissible area or restricted area
shall be determined and designated. The chart of such
area shall be posted at the head village home, the
sub-district office, the sub-district council, and at
the district office where the national forest located,
and near the landmark or placard or the national
forest boundary indication sign.
In the case that it is unable to   utilize the
permissible area which has been specified and prefer
32



to use different area other than indicated in (2), the
proponent may submit the request from as attached to
this ordinance to the regional forestry office where
such national forest located.   Include with the
request, the chart illustrate the requested area
should be presented along with statement clarify the
necessity to utilize the area other than those
permissible.       The  procedures  and  conditions
stipulated in Article 7 are to be applied herewith.
Article l0.
The utilizer as per Article 9. must observe the
following conditions:
1)   To take or disengage the animal only into the
determined area.
2)   The animals must be closely attend-d.
3)   Do not bring in the equipments or tools use for
wood cutting or forest clearing into the national
forest.
4)   Do not whatsoever mutilate the forest condition,
trees, or forest product, or impair to the soil
condition,rock, gravel, or sand.
Articl- IL.
The official entering, passing, or use of pathways
within the national forest area to perform assigned
duty are to be exempted from this ordinance.
Article 12.
The permit for entering, passing or use of pathways or
bring in the animals within the national forest area
according to this ordinance must be specified with a
clause at the end of the permit to state that if the
permit receiver fail to comply with condition set
forth will be penalized according to a code of
criminal law or by the National Forestry Act as deem
appropriate.
33



article 13.
The Director-General of the Royal Forestry Dept tment
is in charge of the execution of this ordinance, and
empowered to define, consider the problems associated
to the exercise of this ordinance. The decision made
by the Director-General of the Royal Forestry
Department is considered conclusive.
Notified on 3 September B.E.2530
Signature
(Mr.Chumni Boonyopas)
Director-General, The Royal Forestry Department
34



a'
Rincisiion o Uterma o Pauiw orUns of Pathway or Drinui
or Let In the Wam  ninal.8 into the Nationa  Pormut IArma
apporpin  to seatin  0s 'he Nationa  Totreutr Agt D.E. 25-07
Written at
Date .... Nonth ...... B.E....
I. . ..  ..  ..  ..  .. .Age.. ....... Year. Nationality.
Occupation  ............ Residing at. . . ...................... . .
Street....... ....... Village. . . .... a . . . . . . Sub-District.. . .
District.. w. ...... Province ................ Submit the request
to local regional forestry official of National Forest...........
with the following statement.
I here request for permission to bring in the motor
vehicle or tractor with license number ........... . type ... .
Quantity .......... from the National Forest .............. in the
Sub-District ........... District.. .... ...... Province.
by vay  of ................... to.............
Sub-District ................. District ........... . Province.
From Date ........ Mth ...... B.E ...          to Date.
Month ... .....B.B. Such duration is not longer than one year
from the date permitted.
I here request for permission to bring in or let in the
farm animals (kind) .............. &Quantity ........ in to the
national forest area of.......... in the Sub-District.
District .............. Province ............... within the area
of ..... rai . . ........ ngarn ........... sq. wah which is not
belong to the animal grazing prohibited area according to the
proclamation by the regional forestry office ............ Date....
Month ....... B.E..... Beginning date of request to bring in farm
35



animal from ............... m onth ........ until
Date ........ Month ..........B.E ........ Such duration  is not
longer than one year from the date permitted.
I will strictly comply with all associated laws and
orders.
(Signature) ............. Proponent.
Warrina The proponent must comply with conditions and
without violation to the national forest law.
Note,    Cross out the unwanted phrases or words.
36



ANNEX 3
Permit for ZaLterin.. Pasuin-a or Usme of Pathnvav or Dringina and4
Let in the Para  nImas into the National rarest Area.
Volume No ............                       Office. ....
Sheet  No ............        Date ........ M4onth   . . B.E.
Empowered under Section 18 of the National Forest Act
B.E.2507 Director-General of the Royal forestry Department issue
the permit to ............ Age .Yrs.Nationality............
Residing at........... Street ................ Sub-District.
District .......        Province .......    to bring  in motor
vehicle with license number.. ..... or tractor with license
rnmnber ........... into or passing or use of pathway which
carrying ....... type of vehicle   .   ... Quantity .......    from
the national forest of ............. in the Sub-District.
District .    ........ Province ................. Using the Pathway
from.to. ..... Sub-District .......... . District.
Province ..........Until the Date of   . Month  ...............
to bring or let in the farm animals (kind) .     Quantity.
into the National Forest Area of ....................     in the Sub-
District      .............. District ......... Province.
From the Date of  . ... Month  .. .. B.E ........ Until the Date
Month ......... B.E .    Be that no other kind of animals than
stated in this permit be allowed in the requested area and that
no animal is allowed in the animal restricted area.
(Signature) .........      Permission
Authority
Position.....................
Waxring   Violation will be penalized according to a code of
criminal law.
Note.     Cross out the unwanted phrases or words.
37



AIRMS 4
Parit frLand f-ltli.atipn -o-r Sattlement in thu National rares-t
Volume No ............                      Office.
Sheet  No ........                Date ... Month ...... .E.
Empowered by   the National Forest Act B.E. 2507,
Section 16 Director General of the Royal Forestry Department with
the approval by the Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives  Date.....Nonth...............
Given this permit to .              Age .Year
Nationality .......... Residing at .Sai.
Road     ...........  Village No ............ Sub-District ..
District ............. Province... ......... ......... to utilize
or settling within the national forest area...................
o....t ................ located in the sub-district.
District ........ ......Province......... ....
For...........................................................
o.................................I...........................
Area ......... Rai. .. . Narn.. Sq.Wah .
Until Date ......... Month ..........Io... B.E.
According to the attached map where the boundary of- permitted
area are as follows:
By North : Reaching ............. Neasured as ......m.
By East  : Reaching .............M easured as ...... m.
By South : Reaching ............. Neasured as .......u.
By West  : Reaching ...o ......... Measured as ........
The receiver is obligated to follow strictly to all
conditions set forth as appeared in the attached document.
(Signature) ............ .......Permission Authority
. .........
(Position)....................
38



Conditions At-tached te the PeRrmit
The receiver who is permitted to land utilization or
settling within the national forest area for the purpose of
.............. by the Permit No ............ Volume No ...........
dated ...    month .............. B.E .... .... . must comply
strictly to the following conditions
1.  Will  not  or  allow  no  ones,  neither  the
representatives, workers, nor employees, to what so ever destroy
forest condition, trees or forest product in the forest area off
limit to the permitted area. If such wrong doing is found, the
receirer will be fined in the rate of 2,000 bahts.per rai and up
to 500 bahts for each tree destroyed.
2.  Will comply to all existing laws, regulations,
acts, ordinances and conditions related to the national forest
or forestry including all future issuances as well.
3.  A permanent sign board in the size of 60x120 cm.
is to be visibly posted at the access point to the permitted land
with the following message"         ..has received
permission to utilize this area according to the forestry laws'
The receiver must put up the sign within 10 days after
permit is issued, otherwise will be fined of 2,000 bahts with an
addition of 100 bahts per day remaining until the sign is posted.
4.  Area boundary must be clearly created either with
stakes, signs or homogeneous trees line within 180   day ,
otherwise the receiver will be fined in the amount of 2,000 bahts
and in an addition of 100 bahts per day for the remaining until
the markation is completed.
5.   The permitted area must be utilized for the
purpose as stated in the permit and can not be used for other
activities.
39



6.   Inspection by the officials must be allowed any
time during the day between sunrise and sunset. The receiver
must accompany the officials during the area inspection. If the
receiver can not be presented, representative must be appointed
with the written consent fron the receiver.
The receiver or representative must appropriately
accommodate and facilitate the official inspection and follow the
written order made by the official in order to fulfill the
stipulation set forth.
7.  Surveillance must be done to prevent forest
encroachment in the adjacent forest area and its vicinity or
along the access road to the permitted area. If the wrong doing
in the national forest area is found, the receiver must notify
the local authority immediately, otherwise the receiver will be
responsible for such action as well.
S-. The receiver must operate the land as permitted
and if necessary may let other person operate on the receiver
account. However, if such operation cause any degradation and
abused, the receiver will be totally responsible.
9.   If the receiver fail to comply with conditions and
requirsments set forth which lead to the degradation and abused,
or fine was collected but the receiver repeatedly fail to respond
to the conditions, the permit may be suspended by the Director
General of the Royal Forestry Department not more than 60 days
from the date which suspension was issued, or the Director
General of the Royal Forestry Department with the approval by the
Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and cooperatives can
revoke the permit which the receiver may not at all contest or
petition for any compensation.
40



(Signed) ......  ....... Permission
Authority
( ............ . ...   )
Director General, the Royal
Forestry Department
(Signed) .. .....         Receiver
...................)
RemarJ     In the case that permit is issued for large land
utilization of agricultural practice such as cash crops, orchard
and cattle raising, an additional condition is set forth hereas,
"If found later in the permitted area the minerals or other
natural resources, the government reserve the right to retrieve
such natural resources from the permitted area for the benefit
of the government.



Criteria for coumensation to Affected People by EGAT's
EGAT has established criteria for the compensation of any
asset lost or impaired by EGAT's projects or activities as
follows:
1.  Land CogmRensation
- To be compensated based on the normal market value
2r 
- To be compensated based on the appraisal price
which is determined for registration fee and deed
2r.
- To request the appraisal by the office of the
National Valuation Authority before the appropriate
rate of compensation can be obtained
In addition, criteria for land compensation bas been
established specifically for transmission line corridor as
follows:
- Paddy  field : paying 50 percent of the determined
value,
- Farm Land    : paying 70 percent of the determined
value,
- Home Land    : paying 90 percent of the determined
value,
- Tower Location : paying 100 percent of the
determined value.
I2



2.  Perennial Plant Cogensation
The compensation for perennial plant is determined by
the category and type of plants based on the local
condition. The compensation includes breeding cost,
planting,   fostering  and  opportunity   lost  as
appropriate.
3.  COnsation for Buildina and Structure
The compensation rate will be established which based
on the calculation of material take-off for each type
of building  and structure.  The compensation will
include dismantling cost, damaged of lost materials
caused by the dismantling, reconstruction cost and
transferring.
4.  Provision of Land for Dwellincr and Farm  Land to the
Affected veo2le
It is established that the land for dwelling and
.farming to be provided only for the people affected
from the implementation of hydropower project and mine
expansion. The affected people will have the right to
single out the following assistances :
A1)  Provision of homelot and  farmland with
public infrastructures and utilities.  In
the case of governmental resolution, it may
include  the  construction  of  home  as
necessary and appropriate, gr
(2) Provision of subsidy for securing of new
home and farm land, or occupational funding
for setting up new occupation. The amount
of these cash compensations will be
determined by the committee for Assisting
the Affected People which should not be more
than the average subsidy EGAT actually
allocate to each affected people.
43



5.   Other Criteria
(1) To allow the representatives from the affected
people be presented in the committees, sub-
committees   of   all   project   where   deem
appropriate.
(2) The committee for appeal consideration is to be
appointed   to   receive    and  consider   the
complaints and petitions from the people as
necessary.
I~



aNNZZ 7
Dmuzipt ion of R-en-efit-frou Theo D-evyel@Dnewt of Lam Ta MKhoca
PIzuned B-toraLe- Pro-ieat to Psonle in theo Pro-loot Area And
Ito vicinity,
stage of           Affected People           Non-Mffeated People
Deelopment
- Construction   1. Receive fair              1. Quality of Life
Preparation        compensation for            improvement.
. 1994-l995)      land, fruit tree.            - access road to
and perennials.               village of 5 km will
2. Quallty of Life               be improved with
Improvement                   asphaltic pavement
- access road to            - rehabilitation of the
village of 5 km.            dilapidated weir and
will be improved            bring it back Into
with aephaltic              service
pavement.                 - set up the coMAunity
- rehabilitation of the       development fund
dilapidated weir and      - development of
bring it back into          cnnty public
service.                    health
- net up the                - development of
community.                  education
development fund          - development of
- development of              religion
community public       2. Receive second priority
health.                   to be employed by the
- development of            project.
education              3. Provided with
- devalopment of            occupational tralning.
religious
3. Receive first priority
to be employed by the
project.
'5



Stags of            Affectmi People           Non-Affested People
Devalopmset
4. Provided with
occupational
training.
- Construction       1. Receive monthly          1. Participation in
Period 4 yrs.         subsidy of 2,000            occupational
(1995-1999)          bahta per family             promotion in
for 4 year or               services and
until the 5 rai of          eligible for
far land can be             mmbership of the
allocated.                  vlllage
2. Setting up the              agricultural.
agricultural             2. Receive second
cooperatives  for           priority to be
the village which           employed by the
funding by ECAT             project.
3. Loan for                 3. Quality of life
occupational                improvemnt in
investment up to            the following
250,000 bahtm is            areas:
allocated for each          - public health
family through the          - education
village                     - religion
agricultural                - be provided
cooperatives.                with community
4. Receive first                 development
priority to be                fund.
employed by the          4. Eligible for
project.                    occupational
S. Quality of Life             training.
Improveomnt in the
following areas:
- Public health
- education
- religion
1.6



stage of             Affected People          Non-Affected People
Development
- provided with
community
development fund.
6. Receive occupational
training and
occupational
promotion.
Poet Construction    1. Each affected family    1. Farmland of 18 plots
(1999-2004)             will be allocated 5         belong to the non-
ral of fazm land after     affected people
the construction of        whlch  located
upper reservoir is         adjacent to the
completed.                 farmland of affected
2. ZGAT will provide each     people will also be
affected fally with        provided with drip-
quality seedlings each     irrigation in dry
as jack-fruit or sweet     s-eaon.
tamarind for planting   2. Work in forest
in the allocated           plantation and
farmland.                  project construction
3. Planting and nurturing     will be promoted.
expenses will be        3. Occupation promotion
subsidized by ECAT for     through the village
6 year before it can       agricultural
be reaped.                  Cooperative will
4. Drip-irrigation will       also be provided.
be installed for dry    4. Their quality of
season.                    life will be
generally improved.
47



Stage of           Iffmatbed people        Woe-Affeated People
Development
Year 11 '          By this time, the affected  Profit from the village
(2004 - nward)    peplE shcmld be able to    agricultural
earn their incom  fra      cooperatives scerices.
agricultural products and
other occupation.
novevr, DGIT will further
coordinat with the
Cooperatives Promotion
Department and the Village
Agricultural cooperatives
an to continue the
occupational promotion and
cooperatives system.
AB



