LOAN NUMBER 3884-TH
Guarantee Agreement
(Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                       1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3884-TH
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   ed     , 1995, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(the "Guarantor") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the "Bank").
WHEREAS: (A)   The Guarantor and the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (the "Borrower"), having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B)   By the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (C) The Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
" (k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor hereby
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety
merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and, other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the
other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate
to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Article II of this Agreement, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall carry out a periodic
review of the Borrower's electricity tariffs and take such measures
(including, but without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of electricity tariffs of the Borrower) as shall be neces-
sary to produce for the Borrower sufficient revenues to ensure that
the Borrower shall comply with its self-financing, debt limitation
and debt/equity ratio obligations pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 5.02, 5.03 and 5.04 of the Loan Agreement, respectively.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall promptly make the necessary
arrangements and take, or cause to be taken, all action necessary to
ensure that its concerned governmental agencies, related entities
and the Borrower fully comply with the Environmental Mitigation and
Development Plan.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall:
(a)   fully cooperate and cause its concerned governmental
agencies and related entities to fully cooperate, in the monitoring,
evaluation, reporting and exchange of views regarding the Environ-
mental Mitigation and Development Plan, as carried out or facili-
tated by the Borrower in pursuance of Section 3.04 (a), (b) and (c)
of the Loan Agreement;
(b)   promptly after each exchange of views pursuant to
Section 3.04 (c) of the Loan Agreement, modify the said Plan to
fully take. into account any recommendation regarding the Plan and
the implementation thereof as shall have been accepted by the
Guarantor and the Bank, in the context of such exchange of views;
and
(c)   thereafter, in carrying out its obligations under
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, fully take into account any modifi-
cations of the said Plan made in accordance with paragraph (b) of
this Section and any other recom-mendation for remedial or corrective
action as accepted by the Guarantor and the Bank in the context of
an exchange of views in pursuance of Section 3.04 (c) of the Loan
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, promptly after the comple-
tion of the bulk supply tariff study, referred to in Section 3.08 of
the Loan Agreement, review with the Bank the recommendations of that
study and implement with due diligence and efficiency said recom-
mendations, taking into account the Bank's views during such review.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Finance of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Rama VI Road
Bangkok 10400
Thailand
Cable address:                Telex:
MINANCE Bangkok               82823 FISPOLO TH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT).


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


