Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.   5858a-YDR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
October 3, 1986
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its cootents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 3, 1986)
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni Dinar (YD)  =  1,000 Fils
YD I                =us $2.9
US $                =  YD 0.345
YD 1,000,000        =  US $2,900,000
ABBREVLATIONS
ft          foot                          m       =   meter
ha          hectare                       mm           millimeter
Km          kilometer                     Mm3     =   million of cubic meters
inh         inhabitant                    m 3/sec  =   cubic meters per second
lcpd        liter per capita per day   min        =   minute
MEASURES AND EQUIALENTS
Metric System                          =       Imperial System
Kilometer (km)                            =    0.62 mile (mi)
Hectare (ha)                              =    2.47 acres (a)
Meter (m)                                 =    3.28 feet (ft)
Cubic meter (m')                          -    220 gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm'/year)   =    0.603 million gallons per day (mgd)
Liter (1)                                 =    0.220 gallon (g)
Liters per second (1/sec)                 =    19,000 gallons per day (gd)
Kilogram/cm2                              -    0.981 Bar
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
FAO     =        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
IDA     =        International Development Association
MAAR    =        Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
PCEP             Public Corporation for Electric Power
PDRY    =        People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PWC     =        Public Water Corporation
UNDP    =        United Nations Development Program
PWC's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL U.SE CnI.V
PEOPIE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBULC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRANAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pagte No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...........................             i
L     INTRODUCTION . ........................................... 
DL    THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR  .......... .....               2
Background.                                                    2
Water Resources . .............................    2
Service Levels.                                               4
Constraints to Sector Development.                             5
Sector Development Strategy and Program.                      6
The Sewerage Subsector.                                        7
Experience with Past Lending.                                  7
Rationale for the Association Involvement.                     7
.I THE PROJECT AREA.                                                       8
General Features.                                             8
Existing Production Facilities.                                9
Conveyance System .10
Isthmus Pumping Station ..............................       10
Existing Distribution Network  ......      ..................    10
IV.    DEMANID AND KAREET ASPECTS  ...........................            I1
Water Production and Consumption  .....      ................    11
Water Demands ..........      ...............................  12
Population Forecast and Distribution  .....     ............    13
Housing  .............     .................................  13
Water Consumption Forecast ............................    14
V.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT.5..................................            15
Project Genesis and Concept  ..........................    15
Project Objectives ....................................       16
Project Composition  ..................................    16
Cost Estimates  .......................................       18
Status of Project Preparation  ......      ..................    19
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Fritz Rodriguez.
This document has a restie distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tabe of Conts (Continued)
Page No.
Project  Execution    ................................... .                                         19
Project  Financing    ....                     ............................... .                    19
Onlending  Arrangements    ...............................                                          21
Procurement    ..................... .............                                ........          21
Disbursement    ...... ..........                      .........................                     22
VIL         TIE BENEEICIARY    ......... ......... ..                               ....................                 23
Background    ...........................................                                           23
Past  Performance    .....................................                                          23
Management  and  Organization    ..........................                                          24
Staffing    ......................................................                                  25
Staff  Training    .......................................                                          25
Billing  and  Collection    ...............................                                         26
Accounting  Practices  and  Procedures    ..................                                         26
Audit    ................................................                                            26
Insurance    ............................................                                           27
Taxes    ................................................                                           27
V9L          FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS    .....................................                                                 27
Past  and  Present  Financial  Position    ..................                                       27
Revenues    ..............................................                                           27
Financing  of  the  PWC's  Investment  Program    ....                              ........         29
Future  Financial  Performance    .........................                                          31
Monitoring  System    ....................................                                           31
VIIIL         ECONO UIC   ANALYSIS    ......................................                                               32
Objectives  of  the  Proposed  Investments    ...............                                        32
Economic  Justification    ...............................                                           32
Benefits  to  the  Poor    .................................                                         33
Environmental  Impact  of  the  Project    ..................                                        33
Institution  Building    .................................                                          34
Risks    ................................................                                            34
IX.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .... .......    34
LIST OF ANNEXIES
Annex No.
1.    Past and Proposed Investments in the Water Supply Sector
2.    Water Production and Sales in Greater Aden, Past and Forecast
3.    Cumulative Frequency Distribution of Domestic Customers and
Consumption
4.    Forecast of Water Demand and Sales in the Project Area
5.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the PWC for the
Setting-up and Operation of a Hydrogeological Unit



Tabe of Contents (Coninued)
Amex No.
6.    Detailed Cost Estimates
7.    Annual Project Investments
8.    Itemized Foreign Expenditures
9.    Bar Chart of Construction Schedule
10.    Distribution of the Project Costs between the Co-financiers
11.    List of Contracts to be Placed for the Project
12.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13.    PWC's Organizational Chart
14.    PWC - Consolidated Income Statements
15.    PWC - Consolidated Balance Sheets
16.    PWC - Sources and Applications of Funds
17.    Assumptions for Financial Projections
18.   Mbnitoring Indicators
19.    Estimation of the Project Benefits
20.    Consolidated Water Sales and Number of Service Lines
21.    Updated Annual Investments on Seiyun Project - Credit 1418-YDR
22.   Updated Annual Investments on First Aden Project - Credit 1038-YDR
23.    Schedule of the PWC's Loan Repayments
24.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MaWp No.
19254R   Project Location
19255    General Layout of the Water Supply System



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
Benefigiary Public Water Corporation(PWC)
Amounot  SDRs 5.3 million
Terms: Standard IDA
Ternms: Twenty-five years including 5 years of grace, at an interest
rate  of 9 percent per  annum.  The  Borrower would bear  the
foreign exchange risk on the credit
DescriPtio The project constitutes the second construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan and seeks to increase the
critically short supply of potable water to meet peak demands in
the  metropolitan  area  of  Aden  through  the  year 2000.   It
provides for (i) construction  of a wellfield;   (ii)  further
renovation and expansion of the vater distribution network;
(iii) management assistance and staff training of the PWC for
carrying out hydrogeological studies; and (iv) a leak detection
and repair program.
and Risks Increased availability of potable water in metropolitan Aden
would help improve sanitary and health conditions of the city's
population. The network expansion would be mainly in low-income
districts where under the project about 83,000 residents, who
now obtain their supply from standposts and water vendors, would
be served by  individual house  connections.   As part of  the
project, further strengthening of the sector organization and
the PWC will take place.   The project  execution  presents  no
special risks.



- ii -
Estinated
~~ Cost: "       ~~~~Item                     Local  ForejR      Total
Eoeo.-.US   Million....
Water Production Facilities   0.84      8.85      9.69
Distribution Works             1.46     7.09      8.55
Renovation of Existing
Facilities                     0.11     1.31      1.42
Hydrogeological Studies        0.06     0.49      0.55
Leak Detection and Repairs    0.14      0.11      0.25
Supply of Operational
Equipment                             0.22      0.22
Staff Training                 0.10     0.14      0.24
Construction Supeision         0.11     0.73      0.84
Total Base Cost               2.82    18.94    21.76
Physical Contingencies         0.41     2.73      3.14
Price Contingencies            1.02     6.28      7.30
TOTAL PROJECT COST             4.25    27.95    32.20
Raw                                            Local   Foreign   Total
..... USS Million .....
Government/PWC                 4.25     -         4.25
IDA                                     5.60      5.60
DANIDA                                 10.00    10.00
Arab Fund and Kuwait Fund      -       12.35    12.35
TOTAL                          4.25    27.95    32.20
Estimated
D~bursmtin
IDA Fiscal Year
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
............... US  Million.
Annual      0.96   1.95   1.54   0.69   0.25   0.15   0.06
Cumulative  0.96   2.91   4.45   5.14   5.39   5.54   5.60
hterma Rate
of Retwu: 8 percent
I'     Includes US $0.62 million equivalent for taxes on civil works and
services.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBIUC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAEiAL REPORT
L IRODUCTION
1.01     This  report  appraises  a  second  stage. of  water  works  for  the
metropolitan area of Aden, the capital city of People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY). A first stage, which is currently under execution and estimated
to cost US$39.2 million, will become operational in 1987 and will have the
capacity necessary to meet water demands in the city up to 1991. The proposed
project is conceived to meet longer-term demands through the year 2000. It
would include the construction of a new water production facility and further
renovation and expansion of the distribution network, which started under the
first phase of works. Hydrogeological studies of groundwater resources, which
are jointly used for the supply of Aden and in irrigation, would be carried
out with a view to improving the management of these resources. Water is a
scarce resource in PDRY, and to minimize water demand, a leak detection and
repair program would be put in place to reduce losses in the water supply
system.
1.02     The  proposed  works  and  related  studies  are  estimated  to  cost
US$32.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$27.9 million, and are
programmed to be executed during the years 1987 through 1991.  An IDA credit
of SDR5.3 million to finance part of the foreign exchange cost is proposed.
The  balance of foreign  exchange would be  financed  by the Government of
Denmark, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development.
1.03     The Association has already made four credits (S-21-YDR,  1038-YDR,
1159-YDR, and 1418-YDR) in the sector to finance water supply works in PDRY's
three largest cities.   The first credit was for an engineering project and
financed a number of feasibility studies and technical assistance to the
Public Water Corporation (PWC), the national water authority, for management
and staff training. Among these studies was the preparation of a water supply
master  plan  for  Greater  Aden.   The engineering  project was successfully
implemented and the PWC has developed into a very efficient and well-managed
organization.   The implementation of the remaining three projects has also
been good, two of which are expected to be completed by mid-1987.
1.04     The Greater Aden Water Supply Master Plan was prepared in 1978 under
the  IDA engineering project and funds for its up-dating and the detailed
design of a second phase of works were provided in Credit 1418-YDR made in
1983. Parallel to the updating, an exploratory driLling program was carried
out in the selected area for the proposed wellfield to determine the aquifer
potential. A mission composed of Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez, Gerard Desautel and
Ahmed Frih (Consultant) appraised the project in July 1985.



-2-
IL THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
2.01     Located in the south-western corner of the Arabian Peninsula, PDRY
occupies an area of 333,000 km2 and extends nearly 1,400 km along the Gulf
of Aden.  It is a semi-arid  land  of  rugged  configuration,  with  sparse
vegetation and few natural resources. The majority of the population lives in
the narrow coastal plain along the gulf. Further inland to the north, the
country   becomes   very   mountainous,   where   ground   elevations   exceed
2,000 meters. Beyond the mountains, the land flattens again to form the high
plateaux and the Northern Desert, which extend into Yemen Arab Republic and
Saudi Arabia (See Map IBRD No.19254R).
2-02     Overall, a harshly dry climate prevails in PDRY, though it is milder
in the interior plateaux.  In general, temperatures in the coastal areas are
more uniform and humid throughout the year than in the interior. The hottest
months are May through September; temperatures higher than 43eC have been
recorded  in June.  Rainfall in the  coastal areas  is irregular but  more
frequent during the winter months; the mean annual rainfall in the coastal
plain is about 50 am. In the mountainous part of the country, it is more
regular and occurs in the summer months; the average annual rainfall is about
500 mm in this part. The rate of evaporation is high and runoff is limited
evea in the irrigated areas.
2.03     Administratively,   PDRY   is   divided  into  six  governorates  or
provinces. Only one-third of the estimated total population of 2.1 million
(mid-1981) can be considered urban. Almost half of the urban population is
concentrated in Greater Aden, the nation's capital and largest agglomeration.
The second and third largest towns, Al Mukalla and Seiyun, have respective
populations  of  65,000  and  25,000.   The  remaining  urban  population  is
distributed in towns with less than 10,000 people. About 10 percent of the
total population is nomadic and more than half of the rural population lives
in scattered places that are not large enough to warrant the installation of
public water supply systems.
Water Resourews
2.04     PDRY  relies  essentially  on  underground  water  resources  for  its
supply, as few perennial water streams exist in the country. There are seven
major catchment areas which drain into wadis of which the most important are
the Hadramawt with a drainage area of 90,000 km2, the Bana with 9,600 km2
and the Tuban with 5,OOC km .  Since 1970, various  studies  of  the major
groundwater aquifers have been made by FAO. IDA also assisted in this area by
financing a study of the underground water resources in Wadi Hadramawt as part
of an agricultural project 1-' (Credit 615-YDR). This study was completed at
Report No. 847a-YDR, Appraisal of Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project
January 12, 1976.



-3-
the  end  of  1979.   The  IDA-financed  Wadi  Tuban  Agricultural  Development
Project -L  (Credit (768-YDR) also included a water management study of the
Wadi Tuban Aquifer which supplies water to Greater Aden and irrigation works
in  the  Tuban  Delta.   This  study,  which  assessed  the  possibilities  of
increasing the water extraction rate from the aquifer, was completed in 1981.
2.05     With  the  exception  of  Wadi  Hadramawt  where  large  groundwater
resources are still available, adequate water supply sources are scarce in
the rest of the country. Some of the aquifers along the coastal areas were
for some time overexploited. As a result, sea water had started to intrude
into these aquifers, causing deterioration of the quality of the waters. A
case in point is the Wadi Tuban Aquifer (which is used to supply Greater Aden)
where some wells were abandoned because of the high salinity content of the
groundwater. Water demands for urban and agricultural uses in this delta have
already exceeded the available groundwater resources. Consequently, water
must be brought in from the adjacent Wadi Bana, a project a' which is
currently under execution and partly financed by an IDA credit of US$13.2
million (Credit 1038-YDR); but even this additional supply would not be
sufficient to meet the long-term demand. As of 1988, desalinated sea water
would be used to meet peak demand in Greater Aden
2.06     This situation in the areas adjacent to Greater Aden is not unique in
the country. Water shortage is chronic in Al Mukalla, the second largest
town, for which a new water source more than 30 km distant from the city must
be tapped, a problem  that an IDA financed project 3a  (Credit 1159-YDR) is
currently addressing. The same can be said for the remaining agglomerations.
For some of them located in the high plateaux, the only local source of water
is scanty rainfall which is collected and stored in unsanitary open ditches.
Some fresh water does exist in the valley surrounding the plateaux, but the
techniques and cost to elevate the water to the top of the plateaux are
prohibitive for PDRY.  An example is the urban agglomeration of Laboos for
which fresh water must be elevated more than 1,200 meters.
2.07     The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) manages the
country's water resources. The PWC, which reports to the Ministry of Energy
and Minerals, is responsible for the planning, design, construction and
operation of public water supply systems in the country. -   Because of the
1z      Report No. 1727-YDR, Appraisal of Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development
Project, January 25, 1978
2/      Report No. 2910a-YDR, Appraisal of the Greater Aden Water  Supply
Project, May 7, 1980.
Report  No.   336La-YDR,  Appraisal  of  Al  Mukalla  Water  Supply
Rehabilitation Project, April 24, 1981
4Z       In some small towns, PWC has delegated its operating responsibility
to  the  towns'local  councils.   In  addition,  some  private  water
companies and cooperatives still operate in the country.



-4-
dry climate and low and irregular rainfall, agricultural production in PDRY is
mostly dependent on irrigation, most of which relies on groundwater, and in
some cases, on surface water from seasonal floods. In the past, the MAAR did
not pay adequate attention to the problem of sharing scarce water resources
between urban and agricultural uses, and in some instances, to the dire
necessity for limiting agricultural expansion. The MAAR has, however,become
more conscious of the limitation of the country's water resources and in this
connection has issued a moratorium on the drilling of wells in Wadi Tuban for
irrigation, as the unrestricted use of water for agriculture in the Tuban
Delta was  leading  to the complete depletion of  the aquifer.   A  similar
moratorium was passed for Wadi Beihan in the northern part of PDRY.
2.08     To help improve the water supply situation in PDRY, the Association,
in June 1978, approved a credit of US$1.2 million (S-21-YDR)to finance a Water
Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project, whose objectives were to
formulate a phased program of works to meet urban water needs in Greater Aden,
Al Mukalla and Laboos up to the year 2000.  This engineering project has
already led to the formulation of two projects, the Greater Aden Water Supply
(Credit 1038-YDR) and Lhe Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation (Credit
1159-YDR).  Ehe Association also emphasized the need for the Government to
plan more comprehensively the use of the water resources and to set out
priorities for their use. The IDA-financed studies, mentioned in paragraph
2.04, were aimed at formulating long range management programs for the two
most important water resources in the country, the Wadi Hadramawt and the Wadi
Tuban.   The Greater Aden and Al Mukalla Projects include water management
studies of other important resources, the Wadi Bana, the Wadi Buwaysh, the
Wadi Khirba and the Wadi Huwaira.
2.09     A National Water Committee, which is made up of representatives of
the MAAR, the Ministry of Planning and the PWC, and set up since 1981,
regulates the collection and allocation of water resources and determines
water use priorities.  The Association is giving advice to the Committee in
the preparation of a water code for the country.
Service Levels
2.10     About 52 percent of the total population has access to public water
supply  systems.   This  service  level  is  relatively  good  considering  the
sizeable segment of the rural population which is nomadic (about 10 percent of
the total population) or scattered in isolated places which are difficult or
even uneconomical  to provide with public services.   These locations should
continue to rely on individual wells for their water supply. About 80 percent
of the urban population is served by public systems; the service level reaches
40 percent in the rural areas.
2.11     In addition to Greater Aden, the PWC provides water supply services
in nine towns:  Al Mukalla, Chail Bawazir, Shihir, Lahej, Gaar, Zingibar,
Dhala, Nisab and Saber. Most of dwellings located in the inner limits of
these towns are connected to the networks, but public supply through
standpipes is very common in the outskirts. The quality and safety of water
served in Greater Aden and the towns are considered acceptable. Villagers



living in remote areas still spend substantial time to reach the nearest
water point. Local People's Councils, which report to the Ministry of Local
Administration, are responsible for providing basic services,including water
supply in rural areas. With the assistance of the PWC and the MAAR, the Local
People's Councils have been implementing a program of well construction in
rural areas; which is progressively reducing the distances travelled to fetch
water. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) has made various grants
to PDRY for the rehabilitation of water wells in the Northern Desert.  The
rehabilitation program is being implemented by the Ministry of Local Adminis-
tration.  The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development made in 1982 a
loan of US$5.2 million for rural water supply works which are being
implemented by the PWC.
Constrat to Sector Development
2.12     The lack of adequate financial resources is a major constraint to the
sector's accelerated development. Lacking the necessary funds, the Government
has until now given priority to the development of agriculture, fisheries and
transportation. Between 1968 and 1978, investments in potable water supply
amounted to only US$14.4 million (about $9 per capita) and were mostly
financed by Government funds. However, the situation greatly improved during
the period 1979-1981 when US$15.2 million was invested in water supply works.
2_13     Another major constraint to the sector development is the scarcity of
convenient water sources, which are already extensively exploited for
agriculture.   This  situation  is  further  compounded  by  the  remote  and
unfavorable  location of  the urban centers  from  the  major  aquifers.   As
examples,  Greater Aden is located at more than 50 km from the Wadi Bana
Aquifer, a future supply source for the metropolitan area.  A potential water
source for Al Mukalla is the Wadi Huwairah Aquifer, though it is located more
than 30 km from this city. Water from the Wadi Bana Aquifer and the Wadi
Hadramawt Aquifer needs to be elevated more than 1,200 meters to reach urban
settlements in the high plateaux. The country's rugged surface further poses
severe difficulties in developing an expanded road network which is needed for
the transportation of materials, equipment and technical staff, most of which
are now concentrated in Aden.
2.14     A third constraint  is the present population distribution  in the
country. Most of the agglomerated population of 1.3 million lives in small
villages of less than 10,000 people, for which adequate water sources are
difficult to find and high per capita investments are required for water
supply works.   Only two agglomerations have sizeable populations:   Greater
Aden with 315,OCO inhabitants and Al Mukalla with 65,000.
2.15     As a result of  the above constraints,  the PWC had  in  the  past
experienced serious operational difficulties stemming from the bad condition
of the existing water supply systems, and lack of financial resources. The
country's overall difficult economic situation, and more precisely the low
living standard of the population and the unavailability of foreign exchange
needed for the purchase of spare parts, further worsened the PWC's problems.
This situation was particularly critical in Greater Aden where the existing



-6-
supply sources were drying up and deterioration of the system was reaching the
point beyond which its rehabilitation would have been impossible. Thir is
being corrected under Credit 1038-YDR.  A somewhat  similar  situation  also
exists in Al MukalLa and Seiyun where water shortages have created an
extremely unhealthy environment. The situation in Al Mukalla and Seiyun is
being corrected under Credits 1159-YDR and 1418-YDR.
Sector Development Stratepy and Program
2.16     Given  the urgent need  to  save  the fast deteriorating Aden water
bzp-ly system, the Government decided to give its firsL priority to Greater
Aden where the infrastructure already exists and where almost half of the
urban population resides. A US$39.2 million water supply project for Greater
Aden,   partially   financed   by   an   IDA   Credit   of   US$13.2   million
(Credit 1038-YDR), is now almost completed. The Government's second priority
covers the improvement of water supply and sanitation in Al Mukalla and Seiyun
for which the Association has made two credits totalling US$10.5 million.
Parallel to that, the Government is trying to improve the systems in other
towns and to pursue its program of well construction in rural areas, aiming at
reducing the distances travelled  to fetch water.  To meet wa,>r demand in the
year 2000, it is estimated that the Government and the PWC need to invest (in
curreat prices) about US$36.6 million in water supply works in Greater Aden,
US$11.7 million in Al Mukalla, US$9.4 million in Seiyun, and US$71.2 million
in the remaining towns and rural areas.  These are indeed large investments
for which external assistance is needed.
2.17     Annex 1 gives a breakdown of investments to be made in water supply
works in various locations during the Third Five-year investment plan
(1986-1990). This Annex also shows the investments which were made during the
preceding plan.  The objective of the proposed investments is to provide the
main urban centers and larger rural agglomerations with the water supply
systems needed to meet water requirements through the year 2000. The current
plau reflects the Government's strong awareness of the necessity for providing
safe water  supply within easy  reach of the consumers.   While investments
during the period 1981-1985 amounted to US$58 million, those in the period
1986-1990 are projected at US$124 million or more than twice the level of the
preceding plan. The projects included in the investment program, which were
reviewed during the appraisal of the proposed project, are all needed and have
generally been prepared on the basis of appropriate design criteria.
2.18     Equally as important as the above investments, is the strengthening
of PWC's management, which must continue in parallel to the proposed expansion
of public water supply services.   Under the Association-financed engineering
project (Credit S-21-YDR), management consultants prepared a new organiza-
tional structure and revised administrative procedures which have been
implemented in the corporation. The Greater Aden Water Supply Project (Credit
1038-YDR) provided for the stationing of management advisors to assist in the
operations of the PWC. A staff training program was included in the Seiyun
Project  (Credit  1418-YDR).   Under  the  proposed  project,  funds  have  been
earmarked for the extension of the training program through 1990.



-7-
The Sewerage Subseetor
2.19     Collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes in PDRY is the
responsibility of Local People's Councils whose activities are oriented and
coordinated by the Ministry of Local Administration. Only three of the six
districts forming Greater Aden and small areas of Al Mukalla are at present
sewered. Sewerage charges are not at present levied in sewered areas. The
remaining population in the country uses septic tanks, dry pits and night soil
collection.  The situation of liquid waste and excreta disposal is difficult
in Aden and Al Mukalla and projects are under execution in these cities to try
to remedy  it.   The  investments  in AL Mukalla are partly financed by the
Government of Denmark through its development agency, DANIDA.
2.20     A study of the sewerage subsector organization, financed by the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development, was recently completed and
discussions  are  under  way  regarding  the  sector's  restructuring.   The
Association reviewed a draft of tFLis study and is participating in the above
discussions. In addition, the Association will soon undertake a review of the
sector organization, development strategies and objectives.
2.21     Given the country's severely limited financial resources, provision
of adequate water supply should continue to have priority over waste
disposal. As the overall economy improves, the installation of more reliable
waste disposal systems in the agglomerations supplied with water should be
planned progressively. Meanwhile, the Government, with the assistance of IDA
under a Health Development Project, (Credit 1377-YDR), is expanding its
current health education programs to teach the communities the proper ways to
use and maintain existing sanitation systems.   Wastewaters  in Aden and Al
Mukalla are now discharged without treatment into the harbors. But in view of
the shortage of water resources, their reuse in agriculture in Aden was
recommended in the studies included in the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project
(Credit 768-YDR).
Experience with Past Lending
2.22     The  Association  started  its  involvement  in  the  sector  with  an
engineering project which included water supply studies in the cities of Aden,
Al Mukalla and Laboos, and technical assistance to the PWC for streamlining
the  corporation's  organization,  management  and  finance.   The  engineering
project was  successfully  implemented,  as  outlined  in a completion  report
issued in January 1983, and provided the basis for the formulation of
construction projects in the cities of Aden, Al Mukalla and Seiyun (Credits
1038-YDR,  1159-YDR  and  1418-YDR).   Implementation  of  these  projects  has
progressed ext-emely well and two (1038-YDR and 1159-YDR) will be completed by
mid-1987.  'S, far the PWC, which is the executing agency for the projects, has
met all the covenants of the credit agreements.  Disbursement records of the
credits have also been good.
Ratioae for the Association Involvement
223      The Association's role in the water suppLy sector follows closely the
overall strategy that the Association has set out for its lending to PDRY:



- 8 -
that is provision of foreign exchange resources on concessional terms,
generation of co-financing, technical assistance and institution building.
Water resources are scarce in PDRY and good management of the few existing
water sources is absolutely critical if the country is to meet short-term
demands for urban supply and irrigation with the available fresh water
resources.  The capitals  required  to develop  the water sources  are  also
enormous. The Association is playing a catalytic role in securing other aid
agencies'financial assistance to PDRY for the sector. The proposed project is
needed to provide basic water supply services in PDRY's capital city and to
allow further economic development in this important part of the country.
m. THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
3.01     Situated on the northern coast of the Indian Ocean and not far from
its junction with the Red Sea, Greater Aden extends along a natural and
strategic harbor which is one of the most important commercial ports in this
part  of  the  world.   The  site  of  Aden  is  characterized  by  two  rocky
promontories known as Aden and Little Aden, protruding from the flat and sandy
plain formed by the Wadi Tuban and enclosing the Bay of Aden.   It is the
capital city of PDRY and dominates the political, economic and cultural life
of the country. With a population of 315,000, growing at an estimated annual
rate of 2.2 percent,  it is by far the largest city.  Almost half of the
country's urban population live in Greater Aden which continues to attract
migrants from inland towns and rural areas. Most of the country's industries
are in Aden and almost all imports and exports transit through Aden Port.
3.02     Greater Aden is made up of six conglomerate districts.  On the Aden
Peninsula, an island of volcanic origin, two districts have been developed:
Crater, the oldest residential area and a former fishing village built on the
remains of an extinct volcano and linked to the rest of the continent by only
two roads; and the Maalla/Tawahi/Steamer Point development. The steepness of
the ground in these two districts restricts urban development to small
littoral areas which are now densely populated.
3.03     Another district, Khormaksar, was built to the north of Crater on the
sand  linking  the  island  to the continent.   It is a residential  district
housing embassies and families of high and medium incomes. To accommodate the
increased population in the metropolitan area, new developments have taken
place on the continent itself in the district of Sheikh Othman/Mansura/Dar
Saad. New industrial developments have also been located in Sheikh Othman.
To the northwest of this district on the way to Little Aden,  is a fifth
district, Madinat Al Shaab/Hiswa, where not much development has taken place.
Little Aden, located on the western rocky promontory, constitutes the sixth
district and started to develop in the fifte.t_- when for strategic reasons a
huge refinery and large military camps were built by the British.



-9-
Existioi Production Facilities
3.04     Greater Aden is presently supplied with water by three wellfields
known as Sheikh Othman -i-', Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed, which all draw water
from the Wadi Tuban Aquifer. The location of these systems is shown on Map
No. 19255.  Total water production in 1984 reached about 2.3.3 Mn3/year which
was estimated to be 25 percent lower than the demand. At Sheikh Othman, for
some time, production has been limited to 2.5 um3lyear, due to the
continuing  increase  of salinity of  the water.   The Sheikh  Othman  System
includes five wells equipped with submersible pumps which were installed in
1972.  The pumps supply water to a masonry reservoir (2,350 m3) which is in
poor condition.   From  this  reservoir,  water  is pumped directly  into  the
distribution network of the district of Sheikh Othman/Mansura/Dar Saad and a
pipeline (Rubble Mound) serving the Aden Port.
3.05     The Bir Nasir Wellfield includes 43 boreholes 1' which produce on
average 17 Mm3/year.  The wells, located some 20 km from Aden, are equipped
with submersible pumps, half of them quite old and in operation since 1961.
Operations at Bir Nasir are frequently interrupted because of overheating of
the pump motor drives and malfunctioning of electrical controls.   The Bir
Nasir System is located in an area which is subject to severe sandstorms,
resulting in considerable accumulation of sand against the facilities.
Consequently,  regular  cleaning  is  required  to  maintain  access  to  the
facilities.  The weil collection system discharges into two reservoirs which
provide storage equivalent to 2.5 hours of consumption.
3.06     The Bir Ahmed System was built in 1955 to supply water to a petroleum
refinery in Little Aden. It includes 12 boreholes of design similar to that
of the Bir Nasir System,  with  a  total  production  of  4  Mm3/year.   The
boreholes discharge into a steel reservoir of 4,500 m3  which in combination
with reserves in Little Pden, is sufficient to assure continuing service for
about a day.
3.07     Groundwater at the three wellfields is very corrosive and casings and
screens  in some wells are believed  to be  severely  corroded.   The  water
salinity at Bir Nasir, which is farthest from the sea coast, is moderate,
while it is high in the two other systems.  The temperature of the waters at
the collection points  is fairly high (37°C).   Metallic structures of  the
production facilities need to be protected against corrosion.   The existing
cathodic protection of some of the facilities, however, is not effective and
their structures are now heavily corroded. Water at the production facilities
is chlorinated and considered safe for consumption.
1z      Sheikh Othman,  the closest  to the coast, was built in  the  early
fifties.   The water quality has deteriorated over the years (total
dissolved solids exceed 3000 ppm) and this system will be abandoned
after the water works now under construction become operational in
1987.
2/      Five of them were built recently and financed under Credit 1038-YDR



- 10 -
Coveyance SYstem
3.08     A  15-in  gravity  asbestos-cement pipeline conveys water  from  the
Sheikh Othman Wellfield to a booster pumping station (Isthmus) located in the
Aden Peninsula. This pipeline is in bad condition and should be replaced in
the near future. Three gravity mains carry water from Bir Nasir to the Sheikh
Othman District, with two of them supplying the Isthmus Pumping Station. The
first pipeline, a 16-in cast iron, provides service en route to Dar Saad,
Sheikh Othman and Mansura. This pipeline is corroded and must be replaced in
the near future. A second pipeline, a 24-in ductile iron, runs parallel to
the 16-in as far as Sheikh Othman, and then turns south-east to stay parallel
to the 15-in of Sheikh Othman. These pipelines were laid in the sixties in
corrosive soil and their cast iron joints are now moderately corroded, in
spite of a protective bituminous coating. The third main, a 32-in ductile
iron pipe which stops at Sheikh Othun, was installed recently and financed
under Credit 1038-YDR.
3.09     Two pipelines, a 12-in steel and a 24-in asbestos-cement,  convey
water from the Bir Ahmed System to the districts of Madinat Al Shaab/Hiswa and
Little Aden. The steel pipeline is not equipped with cathodic protection and
is quite corroded in areas where the original pipe coating was damaged. The
24-in asbestos-cement pipeline is of more recent construction and now carries
the major part of Bir Abmed production to a pumping station and then to
reservoirs located in Little Aden. A 6-in asbestos-cement pipeline, connected
to the 24-in main, conveys water to the Madinat Al Sbaab/Riswa district. Some
of the cast iron joints on these two pipelines are now highly corroded.
Isthmus Pumping Station
3.10     This station is located on very low ground in the Aden Peninsula,
where the soil is very corrosive, and functions as a distribution center for
Greater Aden. There, two steel reservoirs and a masonry reservoir, with a
total  cap  ity of 50,000 m , regulate peak flows  into  the  system.   Two
ductile iroL pipelines (15-in and 24-in) convey water from the Isthmus Station
to two reservoirs (Main Pass) for distribution in Crater, Maalla and Steamer
Point.  A 12-in ductile iron pipeline delivers water simultaneously  to a
separate reservoir (Jebel Rabid) and to the Khormaksar District. The Isthmus
pumping station was fully renovated as part of the first stage of works in
Greater Aden.
Exisig Distbxtimon Network
3.11     The distribution network  is made up of 264 km of cast iron and
asbestos-cement pipes of diameters varying from 3 to 16 inches.   A  12-in
pipeline conveys water from the Main Pass Reservoir (with a capacity of
L2,100m3) to Crater; a 16-in and a 12-in do the same for the districts of
Maalla  and  Tawahi.   The  network  in  these  districts  mostly  is  in  good
condition, except in areas close to the coast where  the  soil  is  rapidly
corroding the cast iron joints of the asbestos-cement pipes.   In general,
pressure is satisfactory in these districts, but somewhat too high in the low



- 11 -
lying areas. At the southern end of the network in Crater, water is repumped
to Ras Marshag Cape; this pumping station is in very bad condition and would
be renovated under the proposed project.  Another pumping station supplies
elevated areas in Steamer Point and Gold Mohur; operation of this station can
be improved by installing additional control equipment.  The networks in the
above districts are all interconnected.
3.12     The Khormaksar District receives its supply directly from the Isthmus
Pumping Station.  Two elevated tanks (Jebel Habid with a total capacity of
4,500 m3) located at the farthest point of the network provide balancing
flows for peak consumption. Pressure in this district is adequate, but leaks
through corroded pipes are also very frequent.
3.13     Part of  the network  in Dar Saad, Sheikh Othman and Mansura was
renovated under the first project and its renovation would continue under the
proposed project.  A new 10-in pipeline was installed to supply boats at the
Aden Port. Two new 24-in were laid in Sheikh Othman and Dar Saad and as a
result, pressure has greatly improved in these districts.
3.14     The Madinat Al Shaab District is served by a 6-in pipeline connected
to the 24-in Bir Ahmed-Little Aden Main.   There is no  reservoir  in  this
district  and  service  pressure  is  low.   To  remedy  this  situation,  the
construction  of  a  1,000-M3  elevated  tank  is  included  in  the  proposed
project.   TwV  steel reservoirs of a total capacity of 9,000 m3, erected in
the northern part of Little Aden, provide sufficient reserve for this
district. The network in the eastern part of Little Aden is made up of steel
pipes which are now moderately corroded; they would have to be replaced
progressively. Pipes in the western part are made of asbestos-cement and are
in good condition.
3.15     Because of the highly corrosive environment and the age of parts of
the water supply system of Greater Aden, maintenance costs are high.  The
steel reservoirs must be cleaned and  painted  regularly.   Leak  repair and
replacement of obsolete pipes have sometimes been impaired because of lack of
spare parts. To keep water losses to a minimum, a leak detection and repair
program would be initiated under the proposed project.
IV. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Water Production and Consumption
4.01     Water  production  for  Greater  Aden  is  metered  and  in  1984  was
23.3 Mm3/year.   This  in  terms  of  the  average  day  production  was  about
25 percent short of the maximum day demand. Most of the production in that
year came from the Bir Nasir Wellfield with a total yield of 17 Mm3.  The
balance  of  6.3  Mm3  was  extracted  at  the  Bir  Ahmed  and  Sheikh  Othman
Wellfields. The high production at Bir Nasir was made possible by drilling
five deep boreholes which produced 5 Mm3/year.  However, as a result of the
increased water extraction, the water table declined more rapidly in 1984.  It
is now evident that mining of the aquifer cannot be increased further, as
other wells in the area will completely dry up. Thus, until the Wadi Bana



- 12 -
facilities become operational in 1987, water shortage will continue to be felt
in the area.
4.02     Water sales in 1984 amounted to 17.1 Mm3 i.e. about 74 percent of
the production. Water losses in that year accounted for about 26 percent of
the production and were not  considered  high  in  view  of  the  prevailing
conditions  in  the  area  (para.  3.15).   Meanwhile,  the number of  service
connections steadily increased during the last five years from 38,372 in 1980
to 44,728 in 1984. As a result, the percentage of total population served
increased from 82 percent in 1980 to 87 percent in 1984. On the other hand,
the per capita consumption decreased from 90.4 m3/year in 1980 to 87.0 in
1984.   During  that  period  the  PWC  was  able  to  significantly  reduce
unaccounted-for water from 33 percent at the beginning of 1983 to 26 percent
at the end of 1984.
4L03     The growth in the size of population served, water consumption and
service lines in Greater Aden during the last ten years is shown in Annex 2.
In spite of water shortage, the number of service connections increased by 15
percent in that period.  Presently, a service connection on average serves 6
persons.   Some 90,000 people, mostly concentrated in the districts of Dar
Sead, Sheikh Othman and Mansura, are now served by standpipes and mosques.
The proposed expansion of the distribution network would take place primarily
in these districts.
Water Demands
4.04     A breakdown of the volumes of water consumed during the last five
years apportions the various uses as follows:
Percent
Domestic                           50.3
Public                             35.5
Industrial & Commercial            14.2
100.0
Essentially, water consumed  in Greater Aden  is for domestic  and
public  uses  1' which account for almost 86 percent of total consumption.
The industrial and commercial sector takes about 14 percent of the volumes of
water distributed, reflecting the low level of industrialization in the
metropolitan area of Aden. Presently, some 16 industries operate in Greater
Aden, among which the PWC's biggest consumers are the Aden Oil Refinery, a
textile factory and a salt manufacturer, which alone account for more than
80 percent of industrial and commercial water consumption. Potable water is
also sold to ships which harbor in Aden for resupply before or after crossing
the Red Sea. Probably, the present public water usage is on the high side and
can be reduced through better control of leaks inside public buildings.
They account for less than 60 percent in industrialized countries
where more than 35 percent of the demand is for industrial and
commercial uses.



- 13 -
4.05     A  cumulative  frequency  distribution  of  domestic  customers  and
consumption is shown in Annex 3.  This distribution illustrates the usual
skewness  observed  fcr  domestic  consumption.   As  expected,  the  smallest
customers who use less than 4,000 gallons a month but who account for
50 percent of all domestic customers, consume about 18 percent of the volumes
of water. The largest customers (10.000 gallons/month or more) accounting for
only 12 percent of the domestic customers, consume more than 35 percent of the
volumes. The median customers consume not more than 4,000 gallons a month.
Pboptation Forecast and Distribuion
4L06     The 1973 population census recorded a total population of 240,330 in
the Greater Aden area. A more recent census, made in 1983, found a population
of 300,577 in the same area.  Thus, between 1973 and 1983, the Greater Aden
population arew at an average annual rate of 2.2 percent, which is projected
to remain unchanged during the next 15 years. On this basis, the Greater Aden
population is forecast to grow to 352,000 by mid-1990 and to 440,000 by the
year 2000. The 1973 census also recorded 37,842 residences in Grr.ater Aden
with an average occupancy of 5.6 persons per residence. The occupancy level
has increased by 1983 to 6 persons, but is projected to remain at that level
during the next 15 years.
4.07     The present population  density varies widely  from  less  than  50
inhabitants per hectare in the exclusively residential district of Khormaksar
to about 570 inhabitants per hectare in the commercial areas of the Maala
District. With the exception of the districts of Sheikh Othman, Mansura and
Dar Saad, limited space is available in the other districts where few
residential dwellings are expected to be added. Population growth in these
districts is projected not to exceed 1 percent per annum.  Major  population
increase would therefore take place in the districts of Mansura and Dar Saad
where the population growth rate is projected to reach about 5 percent per
Annum.   Further  industrial  development  would  also  take  place  in  these
districts, where most of the proposed network expansion (para. 5.06) would be
executed.
4.08     Four classes of housing can be distinguished in Greater Aden.  The
first class corresponds to detached houses used for embassy quarters, like in
the district of Khormaksar, or by expatriate technicians, as found in Little
Aden.  The second class includes apartment buildings  in Crater, Maala and
Tawahi. Houses in the first two classes are provided with complete sanitary
facilities.  The third class corresponds to old dwellings  built prior  to
independence, and to recently erected small houses in the Mansura District.
Sanitary facilities in this class of dwellings are generally limited to water
closets and showers.  Finally, a fourth class refers to temporary dwellings
erected in isolated areas, which are basically supplied with water at public
standposts.
4.09     Rousing development since independence has not kept pace with the
demographic growth in Greater Aden and this has resulted in built-up slums in
some isolated spots of the city. The Government's objective is to achieve a



- 14 -
higher population density in the presently built-up areas by replacing old
dwellings with modern apartment buildings, and to upgrade dwellings of the
fourth class of housing.
Water ConsumDtion Forecast
4.10     All service connections in Greater Aden are equipped with meters and
accurate records of volumes of water sold are kept since 1975. A review of
these records shows that the average annual per capita consumption has varied
in accordance with available water production, with no particular. concern for
economic efficiency in the use of the resources.   The average  per  capita
consUM tion was 81 m3/year (222 liters/day) in 1975.  It decreased to about
73  m /year   (200   liters/day)   in  the   remaining   seventies   when   the
wellfields'production started to decrease.  By 1983 after new boreholes were
put  in  operation,  the  per  capita  consumption  increased  to  90 m3 /year
(247 liters/day).   These consumptions, however, are considered excessive and
further increases should be discouraged through the implementation of an
appropriate tariff policy which should induce large consumers to reduce their
water usage (para. 7.04).
4.11     To  estimate  future   demand,  an  analysis  of  consumption  in  the
different classes of housing in 1983 (the most recent year during which the
demand  was fully met) was carried out.   The following average per capita
consumption was found for the various classes of housing:
220 liters/day in dwellings of the first class
101 liters/day in dwellings of the second class
56 liters/day in dwellings of the third class
20 liters/day in dwellings of the fourth class.
4.12     In forecasting future consumption in the Greater Aden area, it has
been assumed that the above per capita daily allowances would remain
unchanged.  Nevertheless,  some growth would take place  resulting  from  the
proposed housing  upgrading  in the districts.   As the population presently
living in dwellings of lower classes move to better quarters with adequate
plumbing facilities,  their water  usage  will  necessarily increase.   Public
usage, which is estimated at 11.5 lcpd, is projected to decrease slightly to
about  11.0  lcpd  by  1990.   Future  industrial  consumption  is based  on a
conservative forecast of industrial activities in Greater Aden.
4.13     Projections of water consumption up to the year 2000 are summarized
in Annex 2 and illustrated in Annex 4. It is forecast that by the year 2000
about 96 percent of the population of Greater Aden would be directly connected
to the distribution network through some 71,000 service lines, an increase of
more than 58 percent over the 1984 number.   Water sales are projected to
increase by 67 percent by the year 2000 with the yearly per capita consumption
for all usages practically remaining unchanged at  88 m3/year.   Meanwhile,
the annual consumption per service line, which presently averages 521 m3, is
projected to increase to 530 m , reflecting the expected upgrading of living
conditions in the metropolitan area.



- 15 -
4.14     Assuming  that  the  percentage  of  unaccounted-for  water  would
progressively decline to about 24 percent by the year 2000, the required
average production in that year would then be 37.5 Km3.  As the maximum day
demand is calculated to be 30 percent higher than the yearly average demand,
the maximum production in the year 2000 is forecast to reach 1500 I/sec. more
than doubling the presently installed capacity of 730 1/sec, that the proposed
facilities  should be able  to deliver.   The  maximum  hour  consumption  is
estimated to exceed by 70 percent the average yearly demand.
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Project Genesis and Concept
5.01     Greater  Aden  is  presently  supplied  with  water  from  some  sixty
boreholes sunk in the Wadi Tuban Aquifer which is also extensively used for
irrigation in the Tuban Delta. For some time the rate of water extraction has
largely exceeded the aquifer recharge I/ and as a result the water level in
the boreholes has steadily declined, necessitating the deepening of the wells
and the replacement of the pumps. At the same time, as the hydraulic gradient
of the aquifer has lowered, sea water has intruded in the aquifer and some
boreholes near the coast had to be abandoned because of the high water
salinity.   In spite of  the mining  of the aquifer, however, the existing
bo(-eholes have never been able to meet water demands in Greater Aden and a new
wat-ar source had to be tapped to complement the Wadi Tuban production.
5.02     The study of this new source, as well as the preparation of a master
plan to meet long-term urban water demands in the Aden area, were carried out
in 1981 and financed under Credit S-21-YDR. A first construction stage of the
master plan, which incLudes the collection of groundwater from another aquifer
(Wadi Bana), is now under way and partially financed by an IDA credit
(1038-YDR) of US$13.2 million. This stage is expected to become operational
by mid-1987 at the latest.
5.03     The Wadi Bana Scheme is projected to increase the supply to Aden by
about 10.5 MM3/year.  In addition,  the Yemenis are building a steam power
plant whose residual steam would be used to evaporate sea water for production
of  fresh water.   The  plant  output  would average  9.7 Mm3/year and  would
become operational in 1988.   In view of the complexity and dependency of the
desalination process with the operation of the power turbines, the plant will
be  operated and maintained  by  the Public Corporation  for Electric  Power
(PCEP).  The PWC will buy desalinated water  in  bulk from  the PCEP;  its
blending with brackish water and subsequent distribution will be assured by
the PWC.
In 1974, which was classified as a dry year, the aquifer recharge was
estimated to reach 26.5 Mm3, while 17 Mm3 of water was extracted
for urban supply and 23.5 Mm3 for irrigation.  Assuming that about
10 Mm3 was lost through infiltration to the sea and an equal amount
returned from irrigation to the groundwater, the aquifer reserves in
that year were thus depleted by about 14 Mm3.



- 16 -
5.04     A forecast of water demand and sales in the Greater Aden area is
shown in Annex 4. After the Wadi Bana System has become operational in 1987
and the desalination plant in 1988, production at the Bir Nasir Wellfield
would be progressively reduced to its estimated safe yield of about
13 Nb3/year. The available production will then be sufficient to meet only
demands up to 1991. Beyond that year, a new water source would need to be
developed to meet future demands.  The proposed  project,  the Upper Tuban
Scheme, would provide the required additional production through the year 2000.
PojeCt Obetives
5.05     The  objectives  of  the  proposed  project  are  to  increase  water
production for Greater Aden to the level required to meet peak demands up to
the year 2000 and to complete the rehabilitation and expansion of the
distribution network. Hydrogeological studies would also be carried out in
Wadi Tuban and Wadi Bana to determine the safe yields of the aquifers. To
strengthen the management of water resources in the country, technical
assistance would be provided to the PWC for the establishment of a hydro-
geological office. Two experienced hydrogeologists would be stationed in the
PWC  for about three years.  Water losses  in Greater Aden are currently
estimated to account for 26 percent of production. This percentage is not
considerad excessive, but needs to be reduced further in view of the scarcity
of fresh water in PDRY. To lower the percentage of unaccounted-for water, the
NC will carry out a leak detection and repair program.  The equipment and
staff training needed for the program will be provided under the proposed
project.
Pt Coon
5.06     The proposed project includes:
(i)    drilling and equipping about twenty boreholes in Upper Tuban Delta to
extract an annual average of 10.5 Mm3 of water, of five boreholes
at Bir Nasir and three at Bir Ahmed;
(ii)    equipping the Upper Tuban Wellfield including the construction of two
5,000 m3 steel reservoirs, the supply of a 620 KVA generator,  the
supply of chlorination equipment, control and communication system,
and other mechanical and electrical equipment;
(iii)   construction of a 24/20-in transmission pipeline between the Upper
Tuban Wellfield and the existing facilities at Bir Nasir;
(iv)    reshaping  of  the  primary  distribution  network  including  the
installation of a 28-in main between Sheikh Othman and Isthmus
Pumping Station, a 16/24-in pipeline from Main Pass Reservoir to the
Maalla  District,  a  2000-m3  elevated  tank  in  Mansura  and  a
1,000-m3 elevated tank in Madinat Al Shaab;
(v)     the improvement and expansion of the distribution network in newly
developed areas;



- 17 -
(vi)    renovation  of  the  existing  system  including  the  replacement  of
mechanical  and  electrical  equipment  of  three  existing  pumping
stations (Slaughter House, Rock House and Ras Marshag), upgrading of
the mechanical and electrical systems of the Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed
Wellfields, the replacement of a reservoir at Ras larshag, one at
Bir Fukum and another at Moat, and provision of cathodic protection
equipment for the steel tanks at Isthmus and in Little Aden;
(vii)   technical assistance to the PWC for the creation and operation of a
hydrogeological office, a leak detection and repair program, and
construction supervision;
(viii)  the supply of operational equipment such as domestic and master water
meters, leak detectors, hydraulic and workshop tools, laboratory
materials, cranes, trucks and vehicles for maintenance operatiors; and
(ix)    staff training.
5.07     A  general  layout  of  the  proposed  facilities  is  shown  on  Map
No. 19255.  The Upper Tuban Wellfield will include two lines of boreholes
which will discharge  into  two steel reservoirs.  A  24/20-in  transmission
pipeline will be laid to convey the wellfield production to existing
facilities at Bir Nasir.  The present method of feeding the Aden districts
from the Bir Nasir waterworks will remain unchanged. Additional production,
however, would be coming from the desalination plant located on the road to
Little Aden. Also, blending water needs to be provided for mixing with the
plant output prior to its distribution. Consequently, the desalination plant
output will be connected to the Isthmms Pumping Station through a new 28-inch
pipeline to allow mixing of the desalinated waters with groundwater from Wadi
Tuban and Wadi Bana and possibly the supply of the city in case of temporary
interruption of the water production works at Wadi Tuban and Wadi Bana.
5.08     As part of the project, a unit will be set up in the PWC to carry out
hydrogeological studies. Generally, such studies need to be developed over a
long period of time during which basic information must be collected and
interpreted. Various studies have already been carried out in Wadi Tuban and
Wadi Bana, but so far no definite conclusions have been reached regarding the
potential yield of the aquifers due to lack of reliable data. A main task of
the proposed hydrogeological unit would be  to collect data and update  the
mathematical models of the aquifers. Two experienced hydrogeologists will be
employed for an initial period of three years to assist and train the PWC
staff.  When required for specific tasks, engineering consultants would be
hired for limited times to help the unit carry out these tasks.  Terms of
reference describing the functions and tasks of the hydrogeological unit are
outlined in Annex 5.
5.09     Between  1981  and  1985,  imaccounted-for  water  in  Greater  Aden
decreased  from  30  to  26 percent.   The PWC is planning to further reduce
nmaccounted-for water by implementing a leak detection and repair program over
an initial period of four years. Because of the corrosive nature of the soils
and waters in Aden, a special maintenance program needs to be followed to



- 18 -
protect the metallic structures and pipes of the system and prevent leaks in
the  network.   The  program will  be  executed by  the PWC  staff.   Periodic
diagnostics of wastes in the system will be made by specialized engineering
consultants. Such tecbnical assistance as well as the equipment and materials
needed for the program would be provided under the proposed project.
Unaccounted-for water is expected to be reduced to about 24 percent by 1991.
Further reduction would be slow and difficult to achieve in the Greater Aden
system.
Cost Estimates
5.10     The!  estimated  total  cost  of  the  project  is  YD  11.1 million
(US$32.2 million) with a foreign exchange component of YD 9.6 million
(US$27.9 million) or about 87 percent of the total cost.  A sumnary of the
cost estimates follows. Detailed estimates and annual project investments are
given in Annexes 6 through 8.
Table 5-1. Project Cost Estimates
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total  Percent
Item               .... .YD  Million ....    ... US$ Million ... X
Wellfield in Upper Tuban       0.14   1.36   1.50      0.41   3.95   4.36    17.5
Wells at Bir Nasir
& Bir Ahmed                 0.04   0.61   0.65       0.12   1.76   1.88      7.5
Upper Tuban-Bir Nasir
Transmission Pipeline       0.11   1.08   1.19       0.31   3.14   3.45    13.9
Reshaping of the Primary
Water System                0.29   2.35   2.64       0.85   6.79   7.64    30.7
Improvement & Expansion
of the Secondary Network   0.21   0.10   0.31        0.61   0.30   0.91      3.6
Renovation of
Existing Facilities         0.04   0.45   0.49      0.11   1.31   1.42       5.7
Hydrogeological Studies       0.02   0.17   0.19       0.06   0.49   0.55      2.2
Leak Detection & Repairs      0.05   0.03   0.08       0.14   0.11   0.25      1.0
Supply of Operational
Equipment                           0.08   0.08         -   0.22   0.22      0.9
Staff Training                0.04   0.05   0.09       0.10   0.14   0.24      1.0
Sub-Total             0.94   6.28   7.22      2.71  18.21  20.92    84.0
Physical Contingencies        0.14   0.94   1.08       0.41   2.73   3.14    12.6
Construction Supervision      0.04   0.25   0.29       0.11   0.73   0.84      3.4
Total Project Cost
(Mid-1985 Prices)           1.12   7.47   8.59      3.23  21.67  24.90   100.0
Price Contingencies           0.34   2.17   2.51       1.02   6.28   7.30    29.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST             1.46   9.64  11.10      4.25  27.95  32.20   129.3
(current prices)
Percentage                   13.2   86.8  100.0       13.2   86.8  100.0



- 19 -
5.11     The cost est5.ai-es are based on detailed design of the project and
exploratory drilling in Upper Tuban and are considered fairly accurate. They
include taxes on services, which amount to 5 percent of the cost of civil
works and engineering services; customs duties are not levied on imported
equipment for development projects in PDRY. The base costs were increased by
15 percent for physical contingencies and by 4 percent for construction
supervision. The 1985 local prices are projected to increase by 7 percent in
1986 and 1987, 6 percent in 1988 through 1990 and 5 percent thereafter.
Foreign prices are foreseen to increase by 7.0 percent in 1986 and 1987, 7.5
percent in 1988 through l990, and 5 percent thereafter.  Price contingencies
are projected to reach 29.3 percent of the end-1985 project cost.
5.12     The project provides for an estimated 180 man-months of consulting
services for the hydrogeological studies, the leak detection and repair
program and construction supervision.
Status of Proiect Preparation
5.13     The  final  design  is  completed  and  tender  documents  are  in
preparation.  Land has been retained for the Upper Tuban Wellfield and other
planned facilities. Review of the tender documents, as well as the selection
of consultants for construction supervision, are scheduled for the second half
of 1986. The PWC unit, currently implementing the first Aden project, will be
responsible for the project execution.  Bidding of borehole construction and
equipment supply for the renovation program will start in October 1986 and the
project construction in early 1987. Funds needed in 1987 are expected to be
available (see para. 5.17).
Project Execution
5.14     A bar chart of the project execution is shown in Annex 9.  The PWC
would be responsible for project implementation. In view of the complexity of
the project design, the PWC would be assisted by consultants for project
construction supervision and the execution of the hydrogeological studies and
the leak detection and repair program.   The consultants would be hired in
accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants and under
terms of  reference and conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Association.   The
consultants for construction supervision will be retained not later than
December 31, 1986;  those for hydrogeological studies and the leak detection
and repair program not later than June 30, 1987.  The project is expected to
be completed by the end of 1992. The project facilities would be operated and
maintained by the PWC.
Project Finaneng
5.15     An IDA credit of US$5.6 million-' is proposed to finance part of
At current exchange rates, the proposed IDA credit of SDR5.3 million
is equivalent to US$6.3 million.  If the credit holds to this amount,
the small fund surplus (US$0.7 million) would be used to finance
needed additional network expansion.



- 20 -
the foreign exchange cost. The balance of US$22.3 million would be financed
by the Government of Denmark (US$10 million), through its aid agency, DANIDA,
and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (US$12.3 million). The local cost of US$4.3 million
equivalent would be financed by the Government and the PWC. On this basis,
the financing plan for the project would be:
Table 5.2 Project Financing Plan-"
Local      Foreign     Total       Percent
....... .US$ Million .
Requirements
Proposed Investments          4.3         27.9        32.2        100.0
Financed by
IDA                            5- .6                   5.6         17.&
DANIDA mh                     1_n.0                   10.0         31.1
Arab Fund and Kuwait Fund     ---         12.3        12.3         38.2
Government/PWC                4.3          -           4.3         13.3
Total Financing               4.3         27.9        32.2        100.0
5.16     Parallel financing would be arranged for the project contracts as
illustrated in Annex 11 which shows the project components to be financed
separately by each co-financier.  The IDA credit would finance foreign costs
of the construction of boreholes, the supply of operational equipment, the
leak detection and repair program, the training program, consulting services
for the above programs, the hydrogeological studies, and part of construction
supervision. DANIDA would finance the supply of equipment and materials for
the Upper Tuban Wellfield and the renovation program, and civil works
expenditures under  the project.   The Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund would
finance the supply of primary and secondary pipes, the wellfield collector
pipes and the transmission pipes.  Construction supervision would be jointly
financed by IDA and the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund, as the two
Funds'guidelines for selection of consultants are compatible with those of the
Bank Group. The Association will finance 60 percent of foreign expenditures
for construction supervision and the two Funds, the balance of 40 percent.
5.17     During negotiations,  the Association received assurances  that the
Government would finance any unfunded project costs, should the proposed
The PWC's financing plan for all its investments during the project
execution period is given in Chapter 7, para. 7.08.



- 21 -
financing of the other co-financiers not materialize, or should any default or
suspension of these loans occur later. Moreover, the Government agreed to
meet any cost overruns  that would result from the project execution.  The
financing plan was discussed and agreed at negotiations.
Onlendinu Arrangements
5.18     The  proposed credit would be made to the Government which would
onlend it to the PWC at an interest rate of 9 percent for a term of 25 years
including  a 5-year grace  period.1'   The  loans of  the  Arab Fund and the
Kuwait Fund are expected to be made to the Government at an interest rate of
4 percent with a repayment period of 20 years including 5 years of grace. The
DANIDA f mds would be a grant to the Government. These additional loans and
funds are expected to be passed by the Government to the PWC as equity
contributions. The foreign exchange risk on the IDA credit would be borne by
the Government. The Government financing of the project's local costs would
be passed on to the PWC as equity.   The  execution of  a  subsidiary  loan
agreement between the Government and the PWC with terms and coaditions
satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA credit.
Procurement
5.19     Contracts included in the project and their source of financing are
listed in Annex 11   A major contract financed by the Association would be for
borehole construct-on and would be awarded following international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement.
This contract is expected to be won by a foreign contractor. Materials and
equipment for operation and maintenance, and the leak detection and repair
program, costing less than US$100,000 and aggregating to not more than
US$750,000 would be procured through quotations from at least four suppliers
from  eligible  countries.    ;th  the  exception of sand  and aggregate  for
concrete, all materials and equapmeat for the project would be imported, and
consequently, the 15 percent preference for domestic manufactures would not
apply.
5.20     The  following  table shows acceptable procurement  methods  of  the
contracts financed by the Association, and IDA's financing share:
The  current  interest  rate  for  long-term  loans  for  development
projects in the PDRY is 3.8 percent.



- 22 -
Table 5-3 Procurement Methods
IDA            CO-FINANCIERS'
Procurement Method    Own Procedures       Total
ICB     Other                           Cost
Project Element              ................ US$  Million .
Borehole Construction               4.64         --               -           4.64
Supply of Electrical and
Mechanical Equipment               ---                          3.00        3.00
Pipe Supply                                                      11.97       11.97
Civil Works Construction             ---         -               10.64       10.64
Supply of Operational
Equipment "'                       ---         0.34                         0.34
Hydrogeological Studies  '           ---         0.85              --         0.85
Leak Detection
and Repairs  -'                    ---         0.38              --         0.38
Staff Training  '                    ---         0.38              -          0.38
TOTAL COST                          4.64         1.95            25.61       32.20
TOTAL FINANCING                     4.12         1.48            22.30       27.90
5.21     The DANIDA financing would be a tied grant which would be used  to
procure mechanical and electrical equipment and civil works services from
Danish contractors.   The Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund would  finance  the
supply of pipes which would be procured in accordance with their procurement
guidelines.
Disbursement
5.22     The IDA credit would be disbursed against (i) the CIF cost of all
direct imports; (ii) LOG percent of foreign expenditures for civil works
construction,  w.iqL-h may  include  the  supply  of  materials  and  equipment;
(iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for staff training and consulting
services for the leak detection and repair program, staff training and the
hydrogeological  studies;   and  (iv)  60 percent  of  foreign expenditures  of
consulting services for construction supervision.
I'       To be procured through price quotations from eligible suppliers.
2/       Consultants for these elements would be retained in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



- 23 -
5.23     Estimated quarterly disbursements of the IDA credit and other funds
are given in Annex 12. They are based on the very advanced state of project
preparation and disbursement profiles of water supply projects in PDRY.
Disbursement  records  of  those  projects  have  been  good.   The  proposed
establishment of a revolving fund in PDRY for the project (para. 5.24) would
further  ensure   that   the  credit   is  promptly  disbursed  for  eligible
expenditures.   The Government and PWC nevertheless  agreed  that  should  the
project be executed over a longer period of time, with a resulting cost
increase, they will finance the additional costs.
5.24     In order to enable the PWC to quickly implement the project and to
make prompt payments to contractors and consultants for the project, the
Association agreed to advance regularly funds for the establishment of a
Revolving Fund in PDRY to cover these payments. The Fund will be maintained
at the National Bank of Yemen for a maximum amount of SDR 375,000 which is
expected to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures over a period of four
months.   The  Fund  will  be  denominated  in  US dollars  and  replenished  by
reimbursement  applications  from  the PWC in US dollars.   Applications with
appropriate supporting documentation should be submitted when approximately
half the maximum allowed amount in the Fund has been spent.  The PWC will
establish a special account for the Fund at the National Bank of Yemen.
5.25     The closing date of the proposed credit would be December 31, 1993.
VI. THE BENEFICIARY
6.01     The beneficiary of the proposed  credit would be  the Public Water
Corporation (PWC), created in 1970 by Public Law No.  19 to replace the Aden
Water Authority.  This law was amended in 1981 by Ministerial Decision No. 16,
setting out a new organizational  structure  for  the  PWC.   The  Aden  Water
Authority was, during the British protectorate, in charge of public water
supply services which existed only in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla.  The PWC is
now the national water supply authority responsible for providing potable
water supply services in PDRY.   It is owned by the Government and operates
under the guidance of the Ministry of Energy and Minerals.  It has the status
of  a  semi-autonomous  public  enterprise  and  functions  as  a  commercial
undertaking.  The PWC presently provides water supply services in ten towns
and in 1988 would expand its services to Seiyun and the surrounding villages.
Most of the PWC's activities presently take place in the Greater Aden area
where the corporation collects about 80 percent of its revenues.
Past Performance
6.02     The PWC was the executing agent of the Water Supply Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project (Credit S-21-YDR) and is the beneficiary of a
first credit of US$13.2 million (Credit L038-YDR) made in 1980 to finance
water supply works in Greater Aden, a second one of US$3.5 million (Credit
1159-YDR) made in 1981 to cover the cost of a rehabilitation program of water



- 24 -
supply facilities in Al Mukalla, and a third credit of US$7.0 million
(Credit 1418-YDR) for water supply works in the Hadramawt Governorate.   The
PWC has successfully implemented the Water Supply Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project  (Credit  S21-YDR).-'  All  the  studies  included  in  this
project were completed and have already resulted in the formulation of ongoing
construction projects in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla. In addition, as part of
the engineering project, a review of the PWC's administrative and financial
policies was undertaken and a new organizational structure proposed for the
PWC. This structure is now in place. The PWC has also taken the necessary
actions to strengthen its financial position and has increased its tariffs in
Greater Aden and Al Mukalla. Today, the corporation is a well-managed and
financially viable institution.
6.03     Meanwhile,  implementation  of  the  projects  in  Greater  Aden  and
Al Mukalla  (Credits  1038-YDR  and  1159-YDR)  has  continued  to  progress
satisfactorily. The first credit was closed at the end of 1985 as scheduled
in the credit agreement. The closing of Credit 1159-YDR was extended by a
year to the end of 1986 to allow more time for completing hydrogeological
studies needed to formulate a water master plan for Al Mukalla. Under both
projects, improvement works were executed in the two cities and as a result,
water suppLy services have greatly improved in these cities.
6.04     More  recently,  the  Association  made  a  credit  of  US$7.0 million
(Credit 1418-YDR of January 6, 1984) to finance water supply works in the
Hadramawt Governorate. This project is o-financed by the Arab Fund and is
being implemented diligently, with procurement of the major works now
completed. Overall, the PWC's performance under the IDA financed projects so
far has been outstanding.
Ma _a~emnand Organization
6.05     A Board of eight members, chaired by the General Manager, manAges the
PVC's operations.  All the members of the Board are employees of the PWC,
representing various activities and organizations inside the corporation.
They are, in addition to the General Manager, the Planning Director, the Chief
Engineer, the Financial Manager, the Personnel Director, the Chief of
Operations, the Secretary of the Union and the representative of the Executive
Branch  of  the  Government  in  the  PWC.   The  Board  exercises  collective
mnnagement of the corporation and all important decisions covering staff
appointments and promotions, contract awards, approval of operational budgets
and investment programs, must be discussed and approved by it.
6.06     The  PWC  is owned by  the Government which  controls most of  the
corporation's activities.   In addition  to the appointment of  the General
Manager and other departmental chiefs, the Government reviews and approves the
PWC's operational budgets, investment programs, tariff levels and borrowings.
Further, any contract award for civil works exceeding YD 50,000 (US$145,000)
must be approved by the Government's Higher Tender Board Committee, which is
made up of the Minister of Planning, the Minister of Construction and the
A  completion   report   regarding   this   project   was   issued   on
January 24, 1983.



- 25 -
Minister of Finance. The Tender Board does not intervene in the award of
contracts  for  equipment  and  material  supply.   The  General  Manager  is
responsible for the day-to-day operations.
6.07     Annex 13 shows the PWC's current organization, which was proposed
under the engineering project (Credit S-21 YDR) and implemented by Ministerial
Decision No. 16-1981. The new organizational structure is very functional,
with the lines of command and responsibility clearly defined.  As a result,
the decision making process in the corporation is quick and effective and the
staff seem to enjoy their work and to be comfortable in their positions.
6.08     As of mid-1985, the PWC had a total of 882 employees, of whom 584
were  in  Greater  Aden  and  the  remainder  in  provincial  branches.   This
corresponds to a ratio of about 12 employees per 1,000 service connections and
is high compared to a ratio of 8 normally found in water utilities of similar
size and organization. The PWC's management concurs with this judgment and
intends to reduce the number of staff by attrition.   Salaries and benefits
offered by the PWC are better than those of other corporations, Government
offices and industries, which enables the corporation to attract competent
staff.
6.09     A  program  of  technical  assistance,  and  more  particularly  the
appointment of advisors to the PWC,  was  financed under  the  Greater Aden
Project  (Credit 1038-YDR).  The program was satisfactorily implemented with
the appointment of two technical advisors to supervise the execution of the
corporation's investment program. A civil engineer was also appointed at the
Al Mukalla Branch to supervise the project construction.   All  in all,  the
staff capability has continued to improve since the Greater Aden Project began
in 1980, and is expected to be strengthened further with the assistance of the
advisors.
Staff Tsnn
6.10     The  two  ongoing  projects  contain  staff  training  programs  which
progressed well during the last four years. During that period, fifty staff
were sent to technical institutes abroad to specialize in mechanical
engineering, water supply administration, water distribution systems and
planning.   The PWC's senior management has participated in various seminars
and specialized courses on water supply techniques. In addition, since 1981,
a dozen employees each year have been trained in local institutes in basic
fields  of  management,   such  as  administration,  accounting,   electrical
engineering,  etc.   More  importantly,  the  PWC has been organizing various
training courses for groups of employees, which have resulted in high
motivation of the staff in their work.  In all, since 1981, 144 staff have
been trained in different fields in PDRY.  In particular, some thirty staff
participated in a two-week training course on pump operation and maintenance,
which was successfully completed in November 1982.
6.11     Under the proposed credit, funds would be provided to finance the
training program extension through the end of 1990. More staff would be sent



_ 26 -
to specialized courses abroad and more local seminars would be organized for a
larger number of employees.  The objective is to train abroad some 30 high
level staff in sanitary engineering, project evaluation and appraisal, and
public utilities management.   In addition, 400 staff would be trained in the
country in their respective specialization for a minimum period of three
months. At the same time, in-service training by the advisors and consuLtants
would continue during the project implementation. Particular attention would
be  paid  to  the  training  needs  of  the staff of  the Aden Branch.   It is
estimated that the proposed extension of the training program and technical
assistance would cost US$380,000, with a foreign exchange component of
US$212,000, which has been included in the proposed IDA credit.
Billing and Colection
6.12     The PWC bills its customers on a rotating basis every two months for
water  consumed  and  a  fixed  charge  for  meter  rental  and  connection
maintenance. Billing is processed on an electronic accounting machine and is
up  to  date.   However,  collection  from  private  customers  and  Government
agencies lately has been slow reflecting the current economic stagnation in
PDRY. As of June 30, 1985, accounts receivable from both classes of consumers
stood at 4.8 months  of water sales.   To  lower  receivables,  the  PWC  is
disconnecting unpaid services more rapidly and expects them not to exceed 90
days of billing by the end of the first quarter of 1986.
AccLnating Practices and Procedures
6.13     The PWC uses an accrual accounting system  which  has  considerably
improved since implementation of the Greater Aden Project started in 1980,
though there is still room for further reforms.  The corporation's books and
financial statements are now more accurate, as all past investments have been
recorded in the books, and assets revalued in 1982. The stores have also been
reorganized and the inventory levels, which are processed on an electronic
accounting machine, are more reliable. The Al Mukalla Branch maintains its
own accounts  and  processes  all  its  financial  transactions.   However,  the
incorporation of these accounts in the corporation's consolidated statements
has been made with some delays. The expectation is that, with the assistance
of the advisors, the PWC will be able to fur.:her improve its accounting
practices, so that a still clearer picture of the corporation's financial
situation can be obtained at any time.
Audit
6.14     The latest project agreement (1418-YDR) provides for the submission
by the PWC of the corporation's annual financial statements within five months
after the end of a fiscal year, followed by an audit of the statements which
should be submitted to the Association not later than nine months after the
end of a fiscal year.   Past audits have been carried out by the Central
Organization for Control and Audit (COCA) (a state agency) and accepted by the
Association. The existing audit arrangements are satisfactory and have been
restated in the agreement for the proposed project. As part of their review,
the auditors will audit the accounts of the project's revolving fund (para.
5.24).



- 27 -
lIsuranme
6.15     The  PWC  carries  insurance  covering  fire  damages,  tuird  party
liability and motor vehicles. All civil works contracts for the project will
be insured by the National Insurance Company against accidents, civil
liability, fire and property damages; this company is the sole legal insurer
in PDRY. Foreign supplies for the project will be insured by foreign private
companies against loss and damage in shipment.
Taxes
6.16     Under existing legislation, the PWC's net income is taxed at a rate
of 85 percent.  This rate is not excessive since the Government contributed
the initial capital of the PWC and continues to finance more than 50 percent
of the corporation's capital investments with equity contributions.
VIL FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Finaneis Position
7.01     The PWC's consolidated income statements, balance sheets and cash
flow statements, for the years 1983 through 1993, are shown in Annexes 14
through 16. The corporation's financial position has been good in t&ie last
three years.  In 1985, the PWC earned an income before tax of US$3 million
which was 66 percent higher than the 1984 one. The rate of return on the
corporation's net fixed assets in operation was about 12 percent in 1984 and
1985 and the operating ratio decreased from 79 percent in 1984 to 71 percent
in 1985. The-corporation is projec_ed to remain profitable in 1986.
Revenues
7.02     A great deal of the continuing improvement in the PWC's financial
position is the result of higher revenues produced by tariff increases in
Greater Aden and Al Mukalla,  and  a  rigid  control  of  the  corporation's
operating  expenses.   In  1984,  operating expenses  decreased by  13 percent
compared to the 1983 levels, while revenues increased by 6 percent during the
same period.   From January 1981,  the average revenue in Greater Aden was
increased  to  YD  0.128/m3  (US$0.37/mr3)  from  YD  0.066/m3  (US$0.16/m3).
At the same time, a progressive rate structure was introduced to provide a
better distribution of the charges between different classes of customers.
The financial impact of the rate increase on low-income consumers, whose
monthly water usage does not generally exceed 10 m3, was minimal as their
water bills were raised by less than 20 percent. On the other hand, much
higher tariffs are now charged to industrial, public and commercial consumers
whose water bills have in some instances more than tripled. But they are the
larger consumers and the increased tariffs should induce them to restrict
their water usage.



_ 28 -
7.03     Prior to the establishment of the PWC, each town administered its
water supply system and applied its own tariffs. The PWC has maintained the
different tariff schedules whose averages are higher in the provincial towns
than in Aden. The consolidated average tariff in the provincial towns in 1985
was  YD  0. 206/m,   (US$2.26/1000  gallons),  while  it  was  YD  0.123/M3
(US$1.35/1000 gallons) in Aden. From December 1982, the average revenue in Al
Mukalla  was  increased  to  YD  0.176/m3  (US$0.51/m3)  from  YD  0.142/m3
(US$0.411m3).
7.04     Presently, a differential tariff schedule is applied for water usage
in Aden. Under the present system, domestic customers benefit from a monthly
free allowance of 300 Imp. gallons  '.  Two more consumption classes,  the
first one covering a monthly consumption up to 3,300 Imp. gaLlons, and a
second one for consumption exceeding 3,300 Imp. gallons, are applied for
domestic  usage.   A  single  rate  is  charged  for  public,  commercial  and
industrial usage,  irrespective of the volumes consumed.   The  present  rate
structure is progressive as domestic customers are charged a higher unit price
as their consumption increases.  Coumerce and industry pay even higher rates.
This structure is justified in view of the scarcity of fresh water resources
in the Greater Aden area and would continue to be used as a tool to discourage
unjustified high consumption.
7.05     Under the latest Project Agreement (Credit 1418-YDR, November 1983),
the PWC is required, for each fiscal year, to earn revenues sufficient to
cover, in addition to its operating expenses (excluding depreciation), debt
service requirements and increases in working capital other than cash, not
less than 12 percent of the annual average of its estimated capital
expenditures to be incurred during such fiscal year and the two following
fiscal years.
7.06     To enable the PWC to meet its financial obligations, the Government
has raised the average tariff in Greater Aden by about 54 percent over the
1985  level  from  YD  0.123/m3   (US$1.35/1000   gallons)   to  YD  0.190/m3
(US$2.09/1000 gallons) effective June 16, 1986.   The new rate structure is
shown in Table 7-1 below. As a result of the tariff increase in Greater Aden,
the  consolidated  average  tariff  in  the  country  is  projected  to  be
YD 0.168/m3    (US$1.84/1000    gallons)    in    1986    and    YD    0.192/m3
(US$2.11/100 gallons) in 1987.
This is equivalent to an allocation of 7.5 liters/day/capita, based
on an average family size of 6 persons.



- 29 -
Table 7-1 Water Rate Schedule in Aden
Customer Class      Usage Block          Present Rate              New Rate
Imp.gallonstmonth            YD/m 3                  mlM 3
(US$/1000 gallons)    (US$/1000 gallons)
Domestic           First 300                  Free                     Free
400 - 3,300        0.066    (0.72)          0.066     (0.72)
More than 3,300   0.088    (0.97)           0.142     (1.56)
Conmercial         Any volume          0.198    (2.17)          0.349     (3.83)
Industrial         Any volume          0.143    (1.57)          0.231     (2.54)
Public             Any volume          0.176    (1.93)          0.293     (3.22)
Foreign            Any volume          0.217    (2.38)          0.374     (4.11)
Average Rate                           0.123    (1.35)          0.190     (2.09)
7.07     The financial covenant set out under Credit 1418-YDR was established
on the assumption that the First Aden Project and the Al Mukalla Project would
become operational in 1985 and consequently, water sales would increase in
that year and subsequent ones.  However, the implementation of these projects
has been delayed and they will be completed only by mid-1987. Revenues from
water sales in 1987 are thus projected to be lower than forecast under
Credit 1418-YDR and the PWC would be unable in that year to fully meet the
financial covenmat of the credit. From 1988 onwards, with increased water
sales, the PWC should be able to generate sufficient revenues to meet the
covenant. During negotiations, it was agreed with the PWC to lower the
financial covenant to 9 percent in 1987 but to raise it to its previous level
of 12 percent in 1988 and subsequent years.
7.08     In order to achieve the level of cash generation set out above,
during negotiations, assurances were obtained from the PWC that before
November 30 of each year, starting in 1987, it will, on the basis of forecasts
satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of its tariffs and, if
necessary, adjust them in order  to mee'.  the required percentage  of  cash
generation for investment during the coming year, and will provide the
Association with a copy of  such  review and  the decision  concerning  the
adjustment of the tariffs. During negotiations, assurances were also obtained
from the Government that it will authorize the PWC to implement the tariffs
required to meet its financial obligations under the project.
Fiuancng of the PWC's Investment Progam
7.09     The following sets out the financing plan for the investments to be
made by the PWC during the project construction period 1987-1993:



- 30 -
Table 7-2 Financing Plan of PWC's Investments
YD         US$  ,'           Percent
..... (Thousand) .....
REQUIREMENTS
Proposed Project                  11,101        32,193               46.3
Other Investments                 10,548        30,589               44.0
Capitalized Interest               1,476         4,280                6.2
Increase in Working Capital          849         2,462                3.5
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS                23,974        69,524              100.0
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation          14,448        41,899               60.3
Less:  Debt Service               10,114        29,331               42.2
Net Internal Cash Generation       4,334        12,568               18.1
Borrowings:
Proposed IDA Credit                2,749 z'      7,972               11.5
Existing IDA Credits               1,125 2'      3,262                4.7
Other Loans                        2,003 z'      5,809                8.3
Total Borrowing                    5,877        17,043               24.5
Government Contributions          13,763        39,913               57.4
TOTAL SOURCES                     23,974        69,524              100.0
7.10     In addition to the proposed project,  the PWC  is expected  to make
investments totalling YD 10.5 million (US$30.6 million). Under the proposed
plan,the Government would make an equity contribution of YD 13.8 million
(US$39.9 million)  to the PWC.   But at th- same time, the Government would
receive almost half of its equity in taxes on PWC's gross income and on
services and civil works executed by the PWC during the project construction
period. The remaining Government contributions would be quickly amortized by
income taxes (85 percent) charged to the corporation in the years following
the project completion.
IL/      Based on a constant rate of exchange of YD 1 = US$2.9
2/       Include capitalized interest during construction.



- 31 -
Future Financial Performance
7.11     The PWC's forecast financial statements  in the years 1986 through
1993 are shown in Annexes 14 through 16.  The assumptions made in preparing
these statements are outlined in Annex 17.  By increasing the consolidated
average tariff by 27 percent in 1987 and adjusting it to cover inflation in
the following years, the PWC should earn sufficient revenues from 1987 onwards
to cover its consolidated operating expenses, debt service, any increase in
working  capital  other  than  cash,  and at  least  9 percent of its capital
expenditures in 1987 and 12 percent in subsequent years, and thus meet the
proposed financial covenant.
7.12     The operating  ratio of the corporation will progressively decrease
from 82 percent in 1988 to 74 percent by 1993. Meanwhile, the rate of return
on the corporation's net fixed assets in operation will increase from
3.6 percent in 1988 to 6.1 percent in 1993.   The debt/equity  ratio  would
fluctuate  around  30:70  during  the  projection  period.   The  debt  service
coverage would remain adequate during the period, always greater than 1.3.
All in all, the PWC's financial performance during the project construction
period is expected to be good.
7.13     Under the existing project agreements, the PWC is committed not to
incur any debt other than for the projects concerned, with a maturity greater
than one year, without the Association's concurrence, unless its future net
revenues, before depreciation and interest but after income tax, in each
fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred, are at least 1.2 times
the annual debt service on the proposed and existing debts in such years.
This commitment has been maintained under the proposed project.
Monitoring System
7.14     Annex 18 shows the technical and financial indicators which would be
monitored during  the project execution.  This Annex also gives  the values
forecast for these indicators in the years 1987 through 1993.  These values
were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. An agreement was also
reached with the PWC that it will: (i) report the evolution of the indicators
to the Association on a quarterly basis during the project execution, and on
an annual basis for five years after the project completion;  and (ii) carry
out any reasonable remedial action suggested by the Association, aiming at
meeting the target values of the indicators.
7.15     During negotiations,  assurances were  also  obtained  that  the  PWC,
within six months following the closing date of the credit, will prepare and
submit to the Association a completion report on the execution and initial
operation of the project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance and fulfillment by the Government, the Association
and the PWC of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Project Agreement, and the accomplishment of the objectives
of the Association's credit.



- 32 -
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Objectives of the Proposed  vents
8.01     The need for improving and increasing water supply to Greater Aden is
self-evident. Current production does not meet the demand and the additional
supply from Wadi Bana, that would become available in 1987, will meet the
demands only through 1991. Beyond that year, a new source of supply would be
needed to cover the increasing water requirements. In addition, a large part
of the distribution network is obsolete and needs to be renovated urgently.
Some marginal areas, where low-income people live, are not yet provided with
distribution  systems.   The  proposed  project  would  provide  the  required
additional supply and would complete the renovation and expansion of the
distribution network, which started under the first Aden Project.  Overall,
about 103,000 people would benefit from the project.
8.02     The proposed investments would particularly benefit the poor segments
of the population. The project would help to improve water supply services in
the developing and poorer districts of Greater Aden, such as Mansura, Dar Saad
and Madinat Al Shaab. The population in part of these districts is now served
by standpipes. The network expansion would take place in these districts to
connect the premises to the system. The PWC's policy is to encourage the
installation of individual service connections which allow the delivery of a
safer and more reliable supply to consumers.
8.03     The project was  scaled down to  match  the  investments  with  the
available  financial  resources.   Yet,  it would meet the most urgent water
supply  needs,  specially  in  the  lowest  income  districts.   The  technical
parameters used for the project design were approved by the Association. The
proposed project is the least-cost alternative for increasing the supply of
potable water in Greater Aden.
Economic Justifieation
8.04     The  overriding  justification  for  the  proposed  project  is  the
necessity for providing urgently needed potable water in the country's major
urban agglomeration.   If the projected revenues from water sales resulting
from the proposed project, and sales maintained by renovating the distribution
network, which otherwise would be lost, both based on the proposed average
tariff, are taken as a minimum measure of economic benefits from the proposed
investments, the internal financial rate of return (IFR) would be about 8
percent.  The true economic rate of return is certainly much higher, in view
of the many health and environmental benefits which accompany improved water
supply.
8.05     An attempt was made to assess the consumers'surplus that would result
from the project, based on the consumers'willingness to pay for water supply
services. Prices actually charged by water vendors in the poor districts were
used to calculate the surplus. The procedure and data used are described in
Annex 19. Based on that surplus, the economic rate of return on the proposed



- 33 -
investments would be 12 percent, which is definitely much higher than the
internal financial return mentioned above.
8.06     A sensitivity analysis of the IFR shows that it is not significantly
sensitive to the levels of water sales and to increases in capital
investments.  For a 10 percent decrease in water sales or increase in the
capital costs, the rate of return would decrease by about one percent.
Variations in the operating and maintenance expenses are not considered, since
any increase in these expenses should be offset by a proportional increase of
the tariffs.
8.07     Under the most pessimistic conditions in which the investment costs
would increase by 10 percent and water sales would fall by 10 percent, the IFR
would be about 6 percent, which is still acceptable considering the social
character of the project. However, it is more probable that water sales would
be as projected,  since  the  present  supply  is greatly  insufficient.   The
forecast per capita consumption is projected to remain unchanged during the
next fifteen years in spite of improvement of living standards which will
result from increased economic development.
8.08     Under the current tariff structure, low-income families receive the
minimum needed volume of water free (para. 7.04), while large consumers are
charged more than the average cost, in order to encourage rational use of the
scarce water resources.
Benefits to the Poor
8.09     The absolute poverty income level in PDRY's urban areas in 1981 was
calculated to be US$175 equivalent. On this basis, it has been estimated that
about 28 percent of the Greater Aden population or 85,000 persons presently
live  in absolute  poverty.   A  majority  of  the poor  in Greater Aden  is
concentrated in the districts of Sheikh Othman, Mansura and Dar Saad where the
proposed extension of the water distribution network will take place.  Some
83,000 poor living in these districts would benefit from the project.  About
32 percent of the project expenditures i.e. YD 3.6 millio_ (US$10.3 million)
would be for works that would directly benefit the poor. All in all, about
26 percent of the project benefits will go to the poor.
Environmental Impact of the Project
8.10     As mentioned in para. 2.11, the unavailability of potable water in
adequate quantity has created deplorable sanitary conditicnis in PDRY.  The
Government is striving hard to improve the environmental conditions by
equipping the country's major urban agglomerations with safe water supply
systems. The proposed project would help the Government meet this objective
in the nation's capital where almost half of the urban population lives.
Public water supply would be expanded mainly in low-income districts of the
city. As a result, sanitary conditions there would substantially improve.
Provision of running potable water inside lots and dwellings would further
enhance living conditions in the city. This in turn would push for improved
productivity stemming from better environment and public health.



_ 34 -
8.11     As a result of the proposed project, the volume of wastewaters in
Greater Aden will increase. A sewerage project, financed by the Government,
is currently under oonstruction and would have the capacity required to
evacuate the increased wastes.
Institu     B
8.12     The first steps in reorganizing and strengthening the PWC were taken
under the four previous projects (Credits S 21-YDR, 1038-YDR, 1159-YDR and
1418-YDR), which included management assistance to the PWC and training of its
staff.   These projects also contained recommendations for implementation of
appropriate financial policies by the 2C. These policies have been followed
and the PWC is now a financially viable institution.
8.13     The  proposed  project  is  conceived  to  pursue  further  the  above
obiective by assisting the PWC in expanding its services in the country's
largest urban area. It also includes additional staff training and technical
assistance for the setting up and operation of an hydrogeological office in
the PWC.
8.14     The proposed project presents no special risks.  With the assistance
of engineering consultants, the PWC should be able to supervise the project
execution  properly.   The  PWC  has  acquired  experience  in  the  course  of
implementing the first three projects (Credits 1038-YDR, 1159-YDR and
1418-YDR), which are progressing very satisfactorily. Its supervision of the
hydrogeological studies is not expected to raise difficulties, as the
corporation has gained experience during the execution of the Engineering
Project (Credit S-21 YDR). Implementation of the other project items is not
subject to any special risks.
XIL AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01     Agreement  having  been  reached  on  the  issues  referred  to  in
Chapters V through VII, and subject to the condition of effectiveness set
forth in para. 5.18, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of
SDR5.3 million to the Government of PDRY, which would onlend the proceeds of
the Credit to the PWC for a term of 25 years including 5 years of grace.



_ 35 -                                        ANNEX 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT   SECONO STAGE
PAST AND PROPOSED INVESTMENTS IN THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
(YO Thousand)
Project                                TOTAL2'  ........ THIRD 5 YEAR INVESTMENT PLAN ........            TOTAL      TOTAL
0          Protect Namc            A9A1 85.    14l6           1987      l9H8       1989       1990   19S6 90   9I81 90
A.    ONGOING PROJECTS
1.    Greater Aden I               13.806      1.500        421                                       1.921    15.727
2.    Al Mukalla Rehabilitation  1.398            438                                                    438      1.836
3.    Seiyun Regional               2.201      1.SS       1.229        370         76         23     3.249      5.450
4.    Al Farsha                        119         78                                                     78        197
5.    Shugra                           106        275         75                                         350       456
6.    Saihoot                          350         ea         77                                         160        510
7.    Jawl Hager                       169         83                                                     83        252
8.    Wadi Amad                        373         SO                                                     50        423
9.    Rural Systems                  1.457        233                                                    233      1.690
Sub-Total A.                 19.97       4.291      1802         32_                    23      6.562    2654l
B.    HEW PROJECTS
10.    Greater Aden II                                     1.607      2.860      4.217       1.534    10.218    10.218
11.    Ansurrah/Alwadiyah                          222         4?                                         263        263
12.    Oi-Radam/Wadi Taim                          170                                                    170        170
13.    Al Juwairi/Bir All                           94         20                                         114        114
14.    Manawa                                      152         69                                         221        221
15.    Rural Systems                               150        1So        150        150        150        750        750
16.    Laboos                                     629      5.600      1.771                            8.000      8.000
17.    Al Mukalla I                                                                 645     2.935      3.580      3.580
18.    Howta/Wahat Improvement                     106         54         24                              184        184
19.    Giar/Zingibar                               226        200         54                             480        480
20.    Tarim Regional                                                    410      2.750        940     4.100      4.100
21.    Ohala Unit                                  346      1.758        826                           2.930      2.930
22.    Attaq                                       283        112                                         395        395
23.    Houraido                                               121         85         39                   245        245
24.    Baihan                                                  81         14                               95         9S
25.    Hoff                                                   328        166         96                   590        590
26.    Hawi                                         97        162         39                              298        298
27.    Rural Centers                               275        371        466        354        254     1.720       1.720
28.    towkairas                                               87         56                              143        143
29.    Housainoa Villages                                      67        186         93                   346        346
30.    Keyshun Improvement                          2S                                                     25         25
31.    Shaga/Ouoraishe                                         39         43                               82         82
32.    Gah Hain                                                69         44                              113        113
33.    Quosair/Mabbur                               29         52                                          81         81
34.    Wadi Chora                                                        114        193         87        394        394
35.    Habil Arraida                                                      48         18                    66         66
36.    Haswain                                                           193        log         71        373        373
37.    Labacha                                     123                                                    123        123
38.    Talh                                                   135         83                              218        218
39.    Mahra Investigation                                                15         14                    2          29
40.    Amquoleta Feasibility                         6                                                      6          6
41.    Wadi Habban Feasibility                       8                                                      S          8
42.    Wadi Dowann Feasibility                      12                                                     12         12
43.    Wadi Jirdan                                              6        495        304                   805        805
44.    Al Husan                                                62         55                              117        117
45.    Feidwi Water Tanks                           21                                                     21         21
46.    Bata's System                                           62         41                              103        103
S        Ib Total B.             _       2974       1.253      8.238      89a2       5.971    37,418    37.4t8
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                     19.979       7.265    13.055       8.608      9.058      5.994    43.980    63.959
TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN US $i.aoo0'   57.939    21.069    37.860    24.963    26.268    17.383   127.542   185.481
Expressed in current prices
2?       Corresponds to the PORY second investment plan
Based on a constanL rate of exchange of YO 1 = US $2.9



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER PRODUCTION AND SALES IN GREATER ADEN. PAST & FORECAST
X of         Water      Per Capita    Water   Unaccounted    Max.Day    Production             Number
Year    Ponulatin in 1.000   Population   Produclion  Consymption   Sales    for Water               Demand        Surplus           of
Total      Connected"  Connected           Hm          m /year         H                      4"3/year2"  (Deficit)  "  Connections
1976     251           210          83.7          16.9A         80.9                        ---                 ---                    ---
1976     257           216          84.0          15.96         73.9         10.60        33.6         20.75                         36.010
1977     263           223          84.8          16.40         73.5         10.92        33.4         21.32          ---            37.088
1978     269           228          84.8          16.98         74.5         11.49        32.3         22.07                         38,045
1979     275           229          83.3          17.94         78.3         11.95        33.4         23.32          ---            38,209
1980     281           230          11.9          19.23         83.6         13.83        J8.1         25.00          ...            383372
1981     287           235          81.9          20.24         86.1         14.38        29.0         26.31                         39.161
1982     294           246          83.7          20.68         84.1         14.77        28.6         26.88          ---            40,957
1983     301           251          83.4          22.70         90.4         15.28        32.7         29.51          ---            41.813
1984     307           268          87.3          23.31         87.0         17.09        26.7         30.30          ---            44,728
1985     314           275          87.5          24.1          87.8         17.8         26.0         31.3           (8.0)          45,800
1986     321           284          88.5          24.7          86.9         18.5         25.0         32.1           (8.8)          47.300
1987     329           296          90.0          25.8          87.1         19.4         24.9         33.5           (4.0)          49,300
1988      336          304          90.5          26.5          87.2         19.9         24.8         34.4            3.3           50700                 0%
1989     344           313          91.0          27.4          87.4        20.6          24.7         35.6            2.1           52,200
1990     352           322          91.5          28.2          87.5        21.3          24.6         36.7            1.0           53.700
1991     359           330          92.0          28.9          87.7        21.8          24.5         37.6            9.6           55,000
1992     368           340          92.5          29.8          87.7        22.6          24.3         38.7            8.5           56.700
1993     376           350          93.0          30.8          87.9        23.3          24.2         40.0            7.2           58,300
1994     384           359          93.5          31.6          88.0        24.0          24.1         41.1            6.1           59,800
1995     393           369          94.0          32.5          88.2        24.7          24.0         42.3            4.9           61,500
2000      440          425          96.5          37.5          88.2         28.5         24.0         48.8           (1.6)          70.800
' Connected population was estimated on the basis of an average of 6 persons per service line.
L Assuming maximum day demand equals 1.3 the average day demand.
To calculate production surplus or deficit, the following assumptions were made:
a.  the current production would not exceed 23.3 1M3/year in 1985 and 1986;
b.  after the Wadi Bana Scheme becomes operational in 1987 and the desalination unit in 1988, available production would
be 39.2 mM3/year;  and
c.  after the proposed Upper Tuban Scheme is put into service, available production would be 49.2 Hm'/ year



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CUMULATIVE FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTION OF
DOMESTIC CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMPTION
la 1      -                        ;  1 20
14
% ~~~~~~~~~~I 
l                      |  ~~~~~~~~~I
tz~~~~~~~~~~~~.l -I= Thai"
.2 1                                         12
' 10 ;4
.1~~~.
C,                                      0~~~~~~~~~0
2 P                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
0   25       50        75.--    10 
-                              W       -  21t 8c
/ 
Percentage Cumulative Frequency
World Bank -21273



- 38 -                            ANNEX 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Forecast of Water Demand and Sales in the Project Area
TOTAL PRODUCTION \
SECOND STAGE-
PROPOSED PROJECT
UPPER TUBAN SCHEME
>1         MAXIMUM DAY
40- _    _                                                    DEMAND
DESALINATION                                                    _
PLANT
,    ~FIRST SIAGE-       |DAEMAND--*`N                            S, l,",,SSS  
n  x  | WADI BANIA     -.
1983    1985                1990                1995                2000
YEARS
World Uank-fl771b



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PWC
FOR THE SE1r IG-UP AND OPERATION OF A HYDROGEOLOGICAL UNfT
1.      The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) is a semi-arid land
with few perennial surface water.  The mean annual rainfall in the coastal
areas does not exceed 50 mm;  it is ten times higher in the mountainous part
of the country. Rainfall is irregular along the coast, but more frequent and
regular in the mountains. Temperatures around the year are high as well as
evaporation. Runoff is limited even in the irrigated areas.
2.      Essentially,  the  PDRY  relies  on underground water sources  for its
supply. There are seven major catchment basins of which the most important
are the Hadramawt, the Bana and the Tuban. Various studies of the aquifers
have been financed by  the World  Bank and  FAO.   But  so  far no  definite
conclusion has been reached regarding the extent and yield of the aquifers.
Groundwater is used for both urban supply and irrigation.  And in some wadis,
the aquifers have been mined resulting in the decline of the water tables and
deterioration of the water quality.
3.      The Public Water Corporation (PWC) is responsible for providing urban
water in the country. The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR)
promotes agriculture and in particular exploits the groundwater resources for
irrigation.   So far, all hydrogeological studies in the country have been
carried out by consultants.  While some specialized studies and reviews by
consultants will continue, the PWC is proposing to set up a special office to
carry out routine hydrogeological surveys and studies. To assist it in this
task, the PWC is proposing to use the services of two advisors during an
initial period of three years.
Qualifcatiions
4.      The advisors should be graduated hydrogeologists with at least ten
years  of  experience.   Previous  assignment  abroad,  particularly  in  Arab
countries, is desirable. The advisors must be able to write and communicate
in English, and possibly in Arabic.
Tasks and Duties
5.      The   advisors   will   first  assist   the  PWC   in  organizing   the
hydrogeological office in advising the PWC's management on the number and
qualifications of staff needed for the office. The advisors will prepare an
organization chart of the unit and terms of reference for Key positions. They
will also advise on equipment and materials needed for operating the office.
After an initial review of the existing documentation and visual survey of the
catchment basins, the advisors will prepare a work program for the office with
specific objectives to meet at target dates.



-  40  -                          ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
6.       The advisors will assist the PWC's staff in:
(i)    reviewing all relevant reports,  maps, data and other  information
referring to groundwater resources in the country. In that context,
the  advisors  would  recommend   how   the  existing  and   future
documentation should be classified;
(ii)    installing rainfall and gauging stations in the principal basins and
monitoring them;
(iii)   collecting basic data such as water levels in wells, water quality in
borehole., extraction rate, irrigation methods in wadis;
(iv)    reviewing  the  geology  of  the catchment basins and carrying  out
geophysical prospection of the wadis;
(v)    drilling exploratory boreholes and collecting relevant information;
(vi)   collecting and interpreting operating data of the existing wellfields
and establishing models to forecast future drawdowns in the aquifers;
(vii)  updating  and  refining  the  existing  mathematical  models  of  the
aquifers;
(viii) designing, constructing and operating new wellfields and optimizing
the operations of the existing ones; and
(x)    preparing reports and terms of reference for specialized tasks to be
carried out by consultants.
7.       In developing the above tasks, priority should be given to Wadi Bana,
Wadi Tuban and Wadi Hadramawt. The advisors will also carry out an exhaustive
review of groundwater resources in the Al Mukalla area.
RemumewaIim and Benefits
8.       A portion of the advisors'salaries  would  be  paid  in  a  foreign
currency designated by the advisors and with funds of a World Bank credit to
the Government.  Housing and transport would be provided by the PWC.  Round
trip airfare tickets would be given to the advisors for an annual visit to
their country.



PEOPLE'S OEIOCRATIC REPUBLIC aF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SEcONM STAGE
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Local        Fnreign       TtlL                    Enrlin         Totzl
(XLnX.MflhA5.Mf)                     (LIt * T*gfl4nAJ
A.  WELLFIELD IN uPPER TUQAN
Construction of 20 Boreholes, 12"Dia. 10 M.                       60           475           525          174        1,378        1,552
Supply of 20 Pumps & Motor Drives                                ---            33            33            1           96           97
Mechanical & Electrical Equipment                                  1            89            90            3          256          259
Pump Housing & Installation                                       46           _J.            32          .J-           96j lz
Sub-Total A.          67           630          697           194        1.826        2,020
B.  WELLS AT OIR NASIR & BIR AHHED
Three Boreholes at Dir Ahmed, 12'0ia. 150 M.                      10            152          162           so          441          471
Five Boreholes at Sir Nasir, I12  Dia. 190 M.                     22           321           343           65          930          995
Supply of 8 Pumps & Motor Drives                                   1            26            27            1           76           77
Mechantcal & Electrical Equipment                                   1            22           23            1           64           65
Pump Housing & Installation                                        2             13           is            6           38           44
Sir Ahed Well Collector                                           _             _            -a           _2
Sub-Total B.          43           607          650           123        1,761        1,884
C. WELLFIELD COLLECTOR
Supply of 6.500 H. of 6"to 20" C.I. Pipes                          1           103           104            3          300          303
Pipe Fittings                                                    ---             13           13          ---           37           37
Pipe Transport & Laying                                           2n           _U            in            52          2} 
Sub-Total C.          21           196          217            62          568          630
0.  WELLFIELD EOUIPHENT
Storage Tanks 2 - SOo H3                                         34           305           339          100          884          964
Chlorination Equipcent                                           ---             19           19            1           56           57
Chlorination Building                                              2              8           10            S           22           27
Supply of 650 KVA Generator                                        2           125           127            6          363          369
Fuel Storage  -     2 - Sn                                       ---              5            5            1           14           1S
11 KV Overhead Lines                                               1            17            16            4           49           S3
Generator Building & Installation                                  7             28           35           20           82           102
Control & Communication System                                     2            20            22            4           56           62
Site Works                                                         4            ._                        _l            1 27       --I
Sub-Total D.          52           536          588           152        1,555        1,707
E. TRANSMISSION PIPELINE
Supply of 17 Kms. of 24"/20" C.I. Pipes                           13           819           832           36        2,376        2,412
Pipe Fittings                                                      1            40            41            5          115          120
Pipe Transport & Laying                                          _25         _ 33.    211                              647 __2D
Sub-Total E.         108         1,082        1.190          314        3,138         3.452
F.  PRrMARY NET lB
Pipe Supply: 17  Kms. of 28" D.I.                                 13         1,254         ,,267           38        3,635        3,673
4.b Kms. of 16" C.I.                                 1           110          111             3          319          322
3.5   Ko..  of 12" C.I.                            ---            63           63          ---           183          183
2   Kms. of 10" A.C.                              ---             18           18             1           52           53
1   Km.  of 10" C.I.                              ---             13           13          ---            37           37
Pipe Fittings & Valves                                             1            69            70            2          199          201
Pipe Transport & Laying                                          232           400          632           672        1,159        1,821
Elevated Tanks - 2.000 H3 - 25 H High                             11           277           308           89          803          892
- 1,000 M3 - 25 M High                          _1             140        -in            AS         *.k           4.l
Sub-Total F.         293         2,344        2,637          850        6,792         7,642



People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Greater Aden Water Supply Project - Second Stage
O.,tailed Cost Estimates
Foreian       Ttal         Local      Foreian       T Lal
k..JJIflUIIU*                      (114 * VUnfIICAU)
G. SECONDARY NETWORK
Supply of Pipes & Fittings: 4  Kms. of 10* A.C.                 ---            40           40            2          115          117
2  Kms. of 8"  A.C.                 1            14           is            1          41           42
1 Km.  of 6G  A.C.               ---             6            6          ---            16          16
11 Kms. of 4"  A.C.                1            44           45             2         129          131
Pipe Transport & Laying                                                                    an _  DO     i_                        Din
Sub-Total G.        210            104         314          609          301          910
H. REFURaISHMENT WORKS
Equipment Supply                                                  C           305          310           14          884          898
Civil Works                                                      20            49           69           60          141          201
New Rezervoirs (Ras Marshag, Bir Fukum, Moat)                                  J            10           3Z         .21i          313
Sub-Total H.         36           451          487           106       1,306        1,412
I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO PWC
Hydrogeological Studies                                          20           170          190           58          492          550
Leak Oetection & Repairs                                         48            36           84          140          105          245
Supply of Operational Equipment                                   1            75           76            2          219          221
Staff Training                                                   11           Al           -4           104          lA           244                       I
Sub-Total I.        105           329          434           304         956        1,260
SUB-TOTAL A.-I.    935          6,279        7,214        2,714       18.203       20.917
J.  PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                          140           942        1,082          407        2.730        3,137
K.  CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION                                          37          251           288          109          728          837
.  TOTAL PROJECT COST (Mid-1985 Prices)                           1,112         7,472        8,584        3.230       21.661       24.891
M.  PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                             351         2.166        2.517        1.017       6.278         7.295
N.  TOTAL PROJECT COST (Current Prices)                           1,463         9,638       11,101        4,247       27,939       32,186
S-:===:==:=========================  =====        =====       ======          ===       ======       ==2===
PERCENTAGE                                                      13.2         86.8        100.0         13.2         86.8        100.0
Based on a constant exchange rate of US $1 = YD 0.345
t"



PEOPLE'S OuIICRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEH£N
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
ANNUAL PROJECT INVESTMENTS
(Ya Thausand)
1987                1938                 1989                 1920                 1991                 TOTAL
Item                        Local  FArsimn       Lgl  Formic          Local  Foroacn Local  Fcrsian    Local  For n                  Lcal  Farusmn
borehole Construction                      60       616         32       332                                                 ---                    92      943
Supply of Pumps & Motor Drives            ---       ---          1        47        ---        12             ---             ---      ---           1       59
Mechanical b Electrical
Equipment for soreholes                 ---       ---          1        78          1        33        ---      ---        ---       ---           2       III
Pipes for Well Collector                  ---       ---          2       165        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---      ---           2       165
Chlorination Equipment                    ---       ---        ---        19        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---                  ---        19
Power SuPply Equipment                    ---       ---          2        59          1         8        ---       ---                 ---           3       147
Control & Coamunication Equipment         ---       ---        ---       ---          2        20                  ---        ---       ---          2        20
Supply of Transmission Pipes              ---       ---          3       172         11       687        ---       ---        ---      ---          14      819
Supply of Primary Pipes                   ---       ---          5       458          9       916          1       163        ---      ---          15    1,527
Supply of Secondary Pipes                 ---       ---        ---       ---          2       104        ---       ---        ---       ---          2       104
Layino of Secondary Pipes                 ---       ---        ---       ---        ---       ---        104       ---        104      ---        208       ---
Refurbishment Equipment                     5       274        ---        31        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---      ---           5      305
Refurbishment Works                         9        42         22       104        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---      ---          31      146
Civil Works Construction                  ---       ---         68       231        158       539        136       462         91       308       453    1,540
Supply of Operational Equipment             1        46        ---        29        ---       ---        ---       ---        ---      ---           1       75
Hydrogeological Studies                     8        68          4        34          4        34          4        34        ---       ---         20       170
Leak Oetection & Repairs                   16        12         16        12         16        12        ---       ---        ---      ---         46        36
Staff Training                              9        12          9        12          9        12          9        12       ---       ---          36       48
;ub Total                                 108    1,070         165    1,783         213    2,457         254      661         195      308        935    6.279
Physical Contingencies                     16       161         25       267         32       369         38       99          29       46         140      942
*:onstruction Supervision                   4        43          7        71          8        98         10        27          8        12         37      251
loLal Project Cost (Mid 1985 Prices)  128    1.274             197    2,121        253    2,924         302       787        232       366      1,112    7.472
Price Contingencies                        19       186         43       499         74       966        112       333        103       182       351    2.166
Annual Investments (Current Prices)   147    1,460             240    2,620         327    3.890         414    1.120         335      548      1,463    9,638
.:========_===:_=========== ===     Z=== :    ===        ==: ====        ===    Z====         n==    =====         =5=       =C=      ====-m   =can=
Contract Retentions '                       9        90         18        98         24        85         22        78         16       55         62       218
Accounts Payable                           35       342         66       629         83       98b         98      259          80      123          80       123
NET ANNUAL DISBURSEMENTS                  103    1.028         201    2,235         303    3.634         377    1.771         337      629      1,321    9,297
*  Apply only to civil works contracts and account for 10 percent of
payments, which V  returned a year after work completion.
I



_ 44 -                                           ANNEX 
PEOPLI S aEhtXC RRPtULIC OF YE"EN
CRIATEr £318 U   ER SUPPLY PRnXEf - SECOED STACE
.J.U7    .J.L        ...   .L92L    .2J1                   TOTAL
*YD Thousan.  (YD T n).housan                      US   Thousand
Borehole Construction                 840        489                             -        1.329          3.852
Supply of Pumps & Motor Orives        ---        69         19                 ---           88            255
Mechanical & Electrical Equipment
for Boreholes                                  115        52       ---                    167            484
Pipes for Well Collector              ---       242        ---                              242            701
Chlorination Equipnent                           28             ---            ---           28             81
Power Supply Equipecnt                           87        139        __                    226            655
Control & Comjmication Equipment      ---       ---         31                  - --         31             90
Supply of Transmission Pipes                    253      1.087       ---       ---        1.340          3.886
Supply of Primry Pipes                ---       673      1.450       259       ---       2.382           6.904
Supply of Secondary Pipes             ---       ---        165       ---       ---          165            479
Refurbisb ant Equipment               374        46        ---                              420          1.217
Refurbishment Works                    57        153       ---       ---                    210            609
Civil Works Construction              ---       339        853       783       548       2.523           7.313
Supply of Operational Equipment        63        43        ---       ---                    106            307
Hyrogueological Studies                93        SO         54        58       ---         255             740
Leak Detection & Repairs               16        18         19       ---       ---          53             154
Staff Training                         16        18         19        20                    7-J            212
ANUAL INVESTMENTS                   1.459     2.623      3.888     1.120       548       9.638          27.939
Contract Retentions                    90        98         85        78        55         218             633
NET MNNUAL EEDITURES                1.369     2.525      3.991     1.042       493       9.420          27.306
Construction Supervision               49        88        130        38        18         323             936
"  Apply only to civil works contracts and account for 10 percent of the
paynts .hich is returned a year after work completion.



- 45 -
, u ,  _    _         _____..    
. C  _ u    =   _   ___.:}._ :----~~.--~  -             X
.~~~~~ --_ ..-..--_ ...   _  C... -_
E 2.  __- _____- 
_-      _    _ _ .-_  .._ - .--.--- -----     __
.3 _ ____,_ __   ._                            ___ _
_S _ _
:                         11 ifi    ;i'i~-



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
DISTRIBUTION DF THE PROJECT COSTS BETWEEN THE CO-FINANCIERS
.Q F1INCIE1               1987             198lL         1989             1990           1991             1992            1993                   TOTAL
us $
................................ .............                YO Thousand) ............                                        Thousand
I.,sestments             1,048              653           144               93               7              --                           1,945              5,639
Contract Retention           84               49         (133)             ---                                _                                                _ _
Disbursement                702              703          404              106              28                2            ---           1,945              S,639
DAhIDA
Investments                407              790         1,032              705            517              ---             ---           3,451             10,003
Contract Retention            S               46           80               74              52            (117)           (140)             ---                ---
Disbursement                300              649          891              713             512             246             140           3.451             10,003
ARAB FUND AND KUIWAIT FUND
Investments                  29           1,198         2,727              277              11             ---             ---           4,242             12,297
Contract Retention          ---              ---          ---              ---             ---             ---             ---              ---                ---
ri%bursement                 22              905        2,345              890              77                3            ---           4.242              12,297
OVE[RNMENT/M
Investments                 147             240           327              414            335              ---             ---           1.463              4,247
ConLract Retention            9               18           24               22              16             (39)            (50)             ---                ---
Gi-bursement                101              199          281              371             338             123              50            1,463             4,247
rT IA
investments              1,631            2,881         4,230            1,489            870              ---             ---          11,101             32,186
Contract Retention           98              113          (29)              96              68            (156)           (190)
Disbursement              1,125           2,456         3,921            2.080             955             374             190           11,101            23,186
======   ==_   =====   =====   =_==         ==                ==            ===           s=====             =-====~    I



ANNEX 11
_  47  _                           Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LIT OF CONTRACTS TO BE PLACED FOR THE PROJECT
L CONTRACTS TO BE FINANCED BY IDA'L'
Contraet No. 1:          Constructing and Equipping 20 Boreholes in Upper Tuban,
five Boreholes at Bir Nasir and Three Boreholes at Bir
Ahmed, including the supply ans installation of casings
and screens.
Contract No. X           Supply of Operational Equipment including Meters, Leak
Detectors, Hydraulic and Workshop Tools, Laboratory
Equipment,  Cranes,  Trucks and Vehicles.   Above  Items
can be awarded separately.
Contract No. 3-'         Consulting  services  for  Hydrogeological  Studies  and
Leak Detection and Repairs.
Comtract No. 4:          Consulting Services for Construction Supervision.
U. CONTRACTS TO BE FINANCED BY DANIDA1 '
Contract No. 5:          Equipping  the Boreholes in Upper  Tuban,  constructing
the  Upper  Tuban  Wellfield  Collector,  Transmission
Pipeline and Primary Mains, including the supply and
installation of submersible pumps and motor drives for
boreholes,   mechanical   and   electrical   equipment,
chlorination equipment, power supply, control and
communication  equipment.    Execution   of   Renovation
Works. May include several subcontracts. Contract No.
5 also includes constructing and equipping two storage
tanks in Upper Tuban and two elevated tanks in the city.
Contract No. 6:          Supply of Renovation Equipment such as booster pumps,
electrical equipment, steel tanks, cathodic protection
equipment,  painting  materials.   Above  items  can  be
awarded separately.
The co-financiers would finance only foreign expenditures under the
contracts. Local costs would be financed by the Government and the
PWC.
Jointly financed by IDA and the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund in the
proportion of 60 percent of foreign expenditures by the Association
and the balance of 40 percent by the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund.



- 48 -
ANNEX 11
Pae 2 of 2
IIL CONTRACTS TO BE FINANCvSD BY THE ARAB FUND AND THE KUWAfT FUND1'
Cotrnact No. 3&-'      Consulting Services for Construction Supervision.
Contract No. 7:        Supply   of   Upper   Tuban   Wellfield   Collector   and
Transmission Pipes and Fittings, of Primary and
Secondary Pipes and Fittings. May include two or three
contracts.
WV. CONTRACTS TO BE FINANCED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND PWC
Contraet No. 8&'       Construction of Secondary Pipes
''1     The co-financiers would finance only foreign expenditures under the
contracts. Local costs would be covered by the Government and the PWC.
121     Jointly f inanced by IDA and the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund in the
proportion of 60 percent of foreigr. expenditures by the Association
and the balance of 40 percent by the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund.
23,     The Government and PWC would finance the full cost of Contract No. 8.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REUBLIC nE YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
ESTIMATED SCHEQULE OF DISIURSEMEMTS
(US S Thousan )
DATE   IDA FY  "          IDA CREDIT                  DANIDA CREDIT           ARAB FUND/KUWAIT FUND            PWC/GOVERNHENT
& QUARTER                          _               _                             LOAN                          FUNDS
2/                   ~~~~~2/                       2/                            2/
In Quarter   Cumulative      In Quarter   Cumulative       In Quarter   Cumulative       In Quarter   Cumulative
Jil
Jan.1      Third        480           480              238           238              16          16             72             72
Fourth      481           961              238           476              16          32             72            144
1 ll
First       481         1,442              239           715              16          48             73            217
Second      481         1,923              239           954              16          64             73            290
Jan.1      Third        495         2.418              436         1.390            656          720            126            416
Fourth      495         2.913              436         1,826             656       1,376            126            542
1i98
First       496         3,409              436         2,262             656       2.032            126            668
Second      496        31905               436         2.698             656       2,688            127            795                         1
Jan.1      Third        272         4,177              650         3,348           1,699       4,387            222          1,017
Fourth      271         4,448              650         3.998           1,700       6,087            222          12394
1290
First       271         4,719              650         4,648           1,700       7.787            222          1.461
Second      271         4,990              650         5.298           1,700       9,487            222          1,683
Jan.l      Third         77         5,067              552         5,850            645       10,132            270          1,953
Fourth       77         5,144              552         6,402             645      10,777            270          2.223
1991
First        77         5.221              552         6,954             645      11,422            270          2,493
Second       77         5,298              552         7,506             645      12,067            270          2,763
Jan.1      Third         45        5343               370         7,876              56      12,123            245          3,008
Fourth       45         5,388              369         8,245              56      12,179            245          3,253
First        45         5,433              369         8,614              56      12,235            245          3,498
Second       SO         5,483              369         8,983              56      12,291            245          3.743
Jan.1      Third         30         5,613              163        9,146                9      12,300             90          3,833
Fourth       30         5,S43              163         9,309             ---         ---             90          3,923
First        29         5,572              162         9,471             ---         ---             90          4,013
Second       28         5,600              162         9,633             ---         ---             90          4.103
Jan.1      Third        ---           ---              184        9,817             ---          ---             72          4,175
Fourth      ---           ---              183        10,000             ---         ---             72          4,247
'' Runs from July 1 of a preceeding year to June 30 of the current year
2/  Figures shown under these columns give estimated accumulated disbursements at the end of the corresponding quarters.



PIEOLS DEMOCRATIC REKUIC Of YEMEN
GREATER ADEN ECOND WARR SJPPLY PROJECT
RA*M Wo*Cofpaea 1 - PWC
OugriAa    Chad - 1¶9
11
1  1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.. I.
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
-                                                                                                                                             I q 1mA <m q I <m W$W d I o
d' -11- T j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V.ft*&v 6.   I iEq_I-f "a q1



POPnLE'S DED0CRATIC REPUBLIC OFYEE
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY POZiECT - SECOND STAGE
PWC - CONSOLIDATEO INCOME STATEMENTS
Fiscal Year Endina oecember 11    1983        1984-     l9B5       19L6    1987         198L      1989       1l990     1391       19I2    1J93
Water Produced, Hm3                25.43      28.14     29.21      31.13     32.60      33.36     34.84      36.08     36.98      38.26     39.86
Unaccounted for Water, percent    30.0        30.0      29.5       29.0      28.5       28.0      28.0       28.0      27.5       27.0      27.0
Water Sold. MH3                     17.80     19.70     20.59      22.10     23.31      24.02     25.09      25.98     26.81      27.93     29.10
Average Tariff YO/m3                0.134      0.134     0.151      0.168     0.192      0.203     0.210      0.217     0.228      0.239     0.251
Number of Service Lines           66,886    70,923    73,900    82,060    85,560    88,550    91,740    94,890    98,040   101.590   105,290
Purchase of Treated Water, Hm3      ---        ---       ---        ---       ---       2.34      3.44       4.28      4.84        ---        _
R.VENUES                         ................................................. tYp.Thousnd)..............................................
water Sales                        2,391      2,641      3,118     3,713     4,476      4,876     5,269      5,638     6,113      6,675     7,304
Meter Rental B Maintenance             29        31        110       155        170       184       201        218       236        257       280
New Connections                       65         68        51        168        69         62        69         72        75         89        93
Network Expansion                    358        260       270        300       380        410       360        320       350        360       310
Interest on Fixed Deposits            23         30        32         31        29         29        31         30        24         31        36
Other Revenues                          4         4         4          5         6          6         7          a         9         10        11
TOTAL REVENUES                     2,870      3,034     3,585      4,372     5,130      5,567     5,937      6,286     6,807      7,422     8,039
OPERATING COSTS
Purchase of Treated Water                       -----                ---                  234       361        449       534        -
wages, Salaries & Benefits            949       878       911      1,035      1,087     1,131     1,175      1,217     1,255      1,295     1,336
Energy, Fuel & Chemicals             694        678       716        909       947      1,015     1,032      1,101     1,180      1,582     1,661
Distribution & Maintenance            179       162       207        289       487        562       573        584       596        736       750
General Administrative Expenses       183       233       257        281       309        339       372        409       449        493       £17
Provision for Sad Debt                 13        11         14        18        20         23        26         28        30         33        36
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS              2.018      1,962     2,105      2,532     2,850      3,304     3,539      3,788     4,044     4.139      4.300
Income Before Depreciation           852      1,072     1,480      1,840     2,280      2,263     2,398      2,498     2,763     3.283      3,739
Depreciation                          334       446       440        828      1,072     1,236     1,236      1,236     1,265      1,658     1,658
Income Before Interest               518        626     1,040      1,012     1,208      1,027     1,162      1.262     1.498      1,625     2.081
Interest                             ---        ---       ---        479       553        552       657        613       563        623       684
Income Before Taxes                  518        626     1,040        533       655        475       505        649       935      1,002     1,397
Income Tax (85 Percent)              440        532       984        453       557        404       429        552       795        852     1,187
NET INCOME                             78        94        156        s0        98         71        76         97       140        150       210
: :=e====                             =_ =       CC       ===         Mc        ==         CZ        A==                 = =        Z==       _a==
Operating Ratio                         0.82      0.79       0.71      0.77       0.76      0.82      0.80       0.80     0.78       0.78      0.74
kate of Return on Average Net 
Fixed Assets, percent               12.1       12.0      11.0        5.4       4.5        3.6       4.3        4.8      4.8       4.5        6.1



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
PWC - CONSOLIoATEo sALANCE SHEETS
(YD Thousand)
Fiscal Year Endina Oecember 31    1983          1984 1Jas             1936 1J87L            JU8L       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                   9,884    12,334    19,248    32,485    37,466    37,466    37.466    38.327    50,246    50,246    50,246
Less Accumulated Depreciation    (5,695)   (6,131)   (6,571)   (7,399)   (8,471)   (9,707)  (10,943)  (12,179)  (13,444)  (15,102)  (16,760)
Net Fixed Assets in Operation        4,199      6,203    12,677    25,086    28,995    27,759    26,523    26,148    36,802    35,144   32,486
Works in Progress                    7,996    11,024    12,948        3,869      1,900      5,368    10,474    14,325        4,291      7,220      9,233
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                  12,195    17,227    25,625    28,955    30,895    33,127    36,997    40,473    41,093    42,364    42,719
Inventories                            585        831        551        560        791        815        866        870        921        922        950
Accounts Receivables                   809        969        920      1,236      1,329      1,391      1,472      1,630      1,528      1,669      1,826
Other Receivables                      224        287        187        178        191        203        176        178        161        176        172
Less Bad Debt                         (104)      (115)      (129)      (147)      (167)      (190)      (216)      (244)      (274)      (307)      (343)
Cash & Equivalent                    2,301      2,619      2,275      1,445      1,178      1,342        882        395        747      1,316      2,005
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                 3,815      4,491      3,804      3,272      2,322      3,561      3,180      2,829      3,087      3,776      4,610
TOTAL ASSETS                        16,009    21,718    29,429    32,227    34,217    36,688    40,177    43,302    44,180    46,140    47,329
ECUITY L   LIABILITIES
Capital                              1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296      1,296
Govermnent Contribution              8,805    11,771      14,517    17,157    18,463    20,333    23,616    26,545    27,974    29,504    30,920
Revaluation Reserve                    319        319        319        319        319        319        319        ?19        319        319        319
Retained Earnings                      410        504        660        740        838        909        985      1,J82      1,222      1,372      1.582
Total Equity                        10,830    13,890    16,792    19,512    20,916    22,857    26,216    29,242    30,811    32,491    34,117
Proposed IDA Credit                    ---        ---        ---        ---        700      1,485      2,022      2,316      2,591      2,612      2,475
Existing IDA Credits                 2,789      4,211      6,508      7,457      7,613      7,400      6,990      6.446      5,846      5,246      4,646
Proposed Other Loans                    ---       ---        ---        ---        ---        ---        105        582        902      1,427      2,003
Existing Other Loans                   813      1,502      2,415      2,650      2,413      2,176      1,939      1,702      1,465      1,228        991
Total Long-Term Debt                 3,602      5,713      8,923    10,107    10,726    11,061    11,056    11,046    10,804    10,513    10,115
Custoners'Oeposits                      185       219        244        319        348        373        400        428        454        484        522
Accounts Payable                     1,254      1,502      1,921        992        864      1,055      1,544      1,235        567        838        700
Pension Fund                            31         47         64        ---        ---        ---        ---        ---        ---        ---        ---
Contract Retentions                    107        347        823        636        614        505        124        514        570        840        750
Current Maturities                     ---        ---        662        661        749        837        837        837        974        974      1,125
rotal Current Liabilities            1,577      2,115      3,714      2,608      2,575      2,770      2,905      3,014     2,565      3.136      3,097
TOTAL EQUITY b LIABILITIES          16,009    21,718    29,429    32,227    34,217    36,688    40,177    43,302    44,180    46,140    47,329
_ _::=5========;=======   ====_=    ======    ======    ======    ======    :=====    ===_==    ======    ==_===    ======    =====m
*.urrent Ratio                          2.4       2.1          1.0      1.3        1.3        1.3        1.1        0.9         1.2        1.2        1.5
De.bt Equity Ratio                    25:75      29:71       35:65    34:66       34:66      33:67      30:70      27:73       26:74      24:76      23:77



PEOPLE'S OE&HCRATIC REPUaLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PEoCECT - SECOND STAGE
PWC - SDURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(1YDThnumnA)
1sB3      1984       1945       1286       l9a7       ]gas       l9S9       ;s90       1291       1992       lo5gsI
USES OF FUNDS
CAPITAL INVESTHENTS
Proposed Project                              ---                           1,607      2,860      4,217      1,534         83        ---        ---
Other Investments                7,857      5,182     8,353       3,977      1,229       370        721      2,956        720      2,700      1,350
Capitalized Interest               200        297        465        181        176        238        168       220        282        229        163
TOTAL INVESTHENTS                  8.057      5,479      8,838      4,158      3,012     3,468      5.196      4,712        885      2,929      2,013
DEBT SERVICE
Interest                                  --       ---              479       553        552        657        613        563        623        684
Amortization                       ---        ---        ---        662       661         749       837        837        837        974        974
TOTAL OEBT SERVICE                   ---        ---                 1,141      1,214      1,301      1,494     1,450      1,400      1,1597     1,658
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN
WORKING CAPITAL                  1,251        138    (2,286)        574         83         44      (516)      (460)       707        118        873
5fl.L USES OE. EFUNDS                 9.308      5.617      6552       s.473      4.102 4LI    e         .li GM.Z702          3.992      4.644 u    454 
5CLRCES OF FUJNDS
Operating Income Before
Depreciation After Tax             412        540        596      1,387      1,723      1,859     1,969      1,946      1.968      2,431      2,152
BORROWINGS
Proposed IDA Credit                ---        ---        ---        ---        700        785       537        294        275        153        ---
Existing IOA Credits             2,789      1,422      2,297      1,373       580        299         190        56        ---        ---        ---
Other Loans                        770        689        913        473             ---             105        477        320        525        576
TOTAL BORROWINGS                   3,559      2,111      3,210      1,846      1.280      1,084        832        827       595        683        576
Government Contributions           5,337      2,966      2,746      2,640      1,306      1,870     3,283      2,929      1,429      1,530      1.416
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                 9-39C      S.17       6,552 L7A3            I.309      4,13       6.084      5.70       1.92      4.644    I4S4
OEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                              ---         ---        1.2       1.4        1.4        1.3        1.3        1.4        1.5        1.5
I2



-  54  -                      ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Water Production and Sales
1.       Water production and sales in Greater Aden in the years 1985 through
1993 are forecast in Annex 2.  Projections of production and sales in other
towns served by the PWC were made separately and are shown in Annex 20. Sales
in the metropolitan area of Aden account for about 80 percent of the PWC's
revenues.
Income Statements
Revenues
2.       The  1984 consolidated  average  revenue  per  m3  of  water  sold  is
projected to increase by 43 percent in 1987 and then would be adjusted
periodically to keep up with general inflationary increases.   The following
average revenues/iM3 are expected:
Year                        1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Average Revenue, YD/m 3    0.168  0.192  0.203  0.210  0.217  0.228  0.239  0.251
Increase, percent          11.3   14.3    5.7    3.4    3.3    5.1    4.8    5.0
Meter Rental and Connection Maintenance
S.       In  projecting   revenues   from   these  two  items,  the  following
assumptions were made:
(i)   the cost of a meter would be amortized over five years;
(ii)   about 90 percent of all service lines would be metered; and
(iii)   meter rental fees would increase annually by 5 percent.
New Conmections
4.       The  average  installation  cost  of  a  new  connection  in  1984  was
calculated  to  be  YD  17.   The  cost  is assumed  to  increase  annually  by
5 percent.   The projected number of service  lines  takes  into  account  the
construction of new facilities in Aden, Al Mukalla and Seiyun, and the
expansion of the distribution network in other towns.  A house connection on
average would serve 6 persons.



_55
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 4
Network Expansion
5.       Major expansion of the water distribution network takes place in new
developments and is paid by developers. The PWC carries out the expansion
works  and  makes  substantial  profits  from  this activity.   Based  on past
experience and taking into account the general economic slowdown in the Gulf
countries, it is assumed that the network expansion program would slow down
from 1989, following the completion of ongoing projects in 1988.
Operating Expenses
Personnel
6.       The  present  number of  employees  is considered  too high and  the
assumption is that it would be reduced by about 12 percent in 1985 like in
1984. The number of staff per 1,000 connections, which was 12.8 in 1984, is
projected to decrease progressively during the projection period to reach 10.5
by 1993. At the same time, salaries are projected to increase by 5 percent
annually.
Ener. Fuel and Chemicals
7.       Expenses  for  these items  are  calculated  separately  for  the  new
systems (Wadi Bana, Seiyun, Upper Tuban), based on the required additional
annual water  production  in each  town.   The unit  cost  of electricity  is
projected to increase annually by 10 percent during the next three years, and
then by 5 percent during the remaining years of the projection period.  The
unit price of fuel and chemicals is projected to increase annually by 5
percent.
Operation and Maintenance
8.       Materials and equipment needed for operation and maintenance of the
systems are estimated to amount in a year to 1.5 percent of the value of gross
fixed assets in operation.
General Adninistrative Expenses
9.       They include the materials needed for the new service lines, office
supply and other miscellaneous outlays. They are estimated to represent about
1 percent of the value of gross fixed assets in operation.
Depreciation
10.      The following shows the overall composition of water supply assets in
the PDRY and their expected service lives up to 1986 (prior to the completion
of the first Aden project) and in subsequent years:



_  56  -                     ANNEX17
Page 3 f 4
Type of Assets                               Service Life, years
Percent   UP to 1986   After 1986
Boreholes                            11.2        15           20
Reservoirs                            6.1        15           15
Pipelines                            71.8        25           35
Concrete Structures                   1.4        40           40
Elec. and Nech. Equipment             9.5        15           15
Overall System                      100.0      22.53        30.27
11.      The average life of the systems up to 1986 would be 22.53 years and
an average depreciation rate of 4.4 percent per annum is set out for this
period.   From 1986, the average service life is projected to increase to
30.27 years and the average annual depreciation rate would decrease to
3.3 percent.
Itemsof the Balance Sheet
Assets
12.      The costs of the IDA-financed projects have been updated and are
given in Annexes 21 and 22. Other ongoing investments were also updated. In
addition to the proposed project in Aden, other investments would be carried
out in Al Mukalla, Laboos and Tarim. The Aden and Al Mukalla Projects are
expected to become operational in 1987 and the Seiyun Project in 1989.
Inventoies
13.      Inventory level in the PWC in 1984 reached 2.3 times the operational
and maintenance requirements in that year. The entire inventory stock must be
imported and about a year is needed for importation. Thus the inventory level
can be safely reduced to about a year without resulting in any shortage of
materials and equipment.  The inventory level is projected to decrease to
1.25 times the requirements in 1985, 1.10 in 1986, and 1.00 thereafter.
Accouts Receivable
14.      At the end of 1984, accounts receivable amounted to 4.4 months of
sales. They are projected to decrease slightly to 4.0 months of sales in 1985
and 1986 and progressively to 3 months by 1993.
CAsh and EMuivaent
15.      Considered too high at the present level (enough to cover 15.4 months
of operation), cash and equivalent are programed to be reduced progressively
in the next six years to level to about 2 months of operation.



57                           ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 4
MDA Credits and Other Loans
16.      The schedule of the PWC's loan repayments (amortization and interest)
is shown in Annex 23.
Cutomers' Deo
17.      In 1984,  the average deposit per connection was YD 8.42.   It is
projected to increase to YD 9.00 in 1990 and to YD 10.40 in 1993.
A_bconts Payable
18.      They are forecast to stand at one  fourth of  the annual capital
investments and of the PWC's annual purchases of materials and equipment for
operation and maintenance.  An average  of  three  months  is  required  for
processing  payments  to  contractors  and  suppliers.   Accounts  payable  on a
particular project are shown in the annual investment program for this project
(Annexes 7, 21 and 22).
Contact Retentions
19.      They  are  applied  only  to  civil  works  contracts  and  amount  to
10 percent of the value of these contracts. The retention money is returned
at the end of the guarantee period of a contract. The flow of retention money
on a particular project is shown in the annual investment program for this
project (Annexes 7, 21 and 22).



ANNEX 18
- 58 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
INDICATORS                  Jl97   J198B8    1989    1l90    1991   J.2SIL   J993
r. ZSAFFING
Nmber of Enqployees"               1.000   1.020   1,040   1.050   1.070   1.090    1.10S
Staff Per 1.000 Connections         11.7    I i      11.3    11.1    10.9    10.7        10.5
Number of Staff Trained              100     1 _       90       SO      40       60        70
II. SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Water Sold. 106M3/year            23.31   24.02   25.09   25.98   26.81   27.93    29.10
Water Produced. 1O1M3/year        32.60   33.36   34.84   36.08   36.98   38.26    39.86
Unaccounted-for Water. Percent   28.5    28.0   28.0         28.0    27.5    27.0        27.0
Number of Service Connections  85.560  88.S50  91.740  94.890  98.040 101.590  105.290
_II.NANAGEMENT AND FINANCE
Operating Ratio. Percent2'            76      82       80       80      78       78        74
Rate of Return. Percent3'           4.5      3-6      4.3      4.8     4.8      4.5       6.1
Current Ratio.4'                     1.3     1.3      1.1      0.9     1.2      1.2       1.5
Debt: Equity Ratio                34:66   33:67   30:70   27:73   26:74   24:76    23:77
Debt Service Coverage (times)        1.4     1.4      1.3      1.3     1.4      1.5       1.5
Average Tariff. YD/m3             0.192   0.203   0.210   0.217   0.228   0.239    0.251
Operating Effectiveness :ndex.
Percents'                        50.3    50.4    51.6    51.2    54.4    54.7         54.8
Self-Financing Ratio.Percent6'    9.0    12.0    12.0    15.6    25.0    12.3            22.7
1      At year end.
v      Total operating expenses including depreciation divided by total operating revenues times 100.
3'     Income before interest divided by average rate base times 100.
"/     Current assets divided by current liabilities.
so     Revenues collected per m3 of water produced divided by average revenues per m3 of water billed.
£      Percentage of capital investments financed by internally generated funds during a given year.



- 59 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTIMATION OF THE PROJECT BENEFITS
Benefit Generation
1.       Benefits attributable to the project are the incremental water sales
resulting from the proposed water production increase and improved water
distribution services in low-income districts of the metropolitan area.   In
addition, the project would provide some important environmental and health
benefits which unfortunately cannot be quantified and thus are not taken into
account  in this evaluation.   Under  the proposed project, water production
would be increased by 10.5 Mm3/year.   Assuming  that unaccounted-for  water
would average 25 percent during the project life, peak water sales would
reach  7.87 Mfm3/year by  the  year 2001  and  stay  at  that  level  until  the
year 2016.
2.       A  major  project  objective  is  to  provide  some  33,000  poor  with
individual service connections.   These people now obtain their water  from
vendors who buy their supply at public standposts.  It is estimated that the
83,000   poor   would   consume   about   1.70   Mm3/year.    The   balance   of
6.17 Mm3/year would be sold in new developments and to new enterprises.  A
total of about 11,900 service connections would be installed in low-income
areas and some 3,500 in the rest of the metropolitan area.
Existing Services
3.       Depending on the distance between their dwellings and a standpost,
people in low-income areas obtain their water in two different ways.  If they
live relatively close to a standpost, they buy their supply at that
standpost, for which they are charged YD 0.1191100 gallons.  Consumers living
in more distanced dwellings buy their supply from water vendors who charge
YD 0.714/100 gallons.  The standposts are managed by concessionaries who pay
a tariff of YD 0.030/100 gallons to the PWC.
4.       In para. 5.04 of the report, it has been stated that the yield of
the Bir Nasir Wellfield must be reduced  to about  13 Mmm3/year to stop  the
decline of the water table and the intrusion of sea water into the aquifer.
The reduced extraction of 4.4 Mm3/year at Bir Nasir would be replaced by
production at  the proposed Upper Tuban Wellfield, which would be a direct
benefit for the project. Without the proposed project, the Bir Nasir aquifer
would be lost totally



-  60  -                 ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 4
Consumers 'Surplus
5.       Under the proposed project, low-income consumers woulP  pay a tariff
of YD 0.038/100 gallons.  Based on the tariffs now charged b's :a er vendors
ai:id on the proposed one, a demand curve ill low-income areaE- is shown in
Figure 19-1. The shaded area in this graph represents the prcfJect benefits
for  low-income  consumers.   Those  Denefits  are  estimated  to  amount  to
YD 80/customer/year.
Economic Return
6.       Data for the calculation of the economic  return on the proposed
investments are shown in Table 19-1.  Costs and benefits are expressed in
terms of the mid-1985 price  levels.   Taxes on civil works and consultant
services  were  excluded from the capital costs.   The average life of  the
project  assets  is  projected  to  be  30  years.   Provision  is  made  for
replacement of mechanical and electrical equipment after 15 years.
7.       The economic rate of return on the proposed investments is estimated
to be about 12 percent.
Internal Financial Return
8.       Data for the calculation of the internal financial rate of return on
the investments are also given in Table 19-1.  For this calculationr, only
incremental water sales due  to  the  project  are  taken as benefits.   The
project costs remain unchanged.
9.       The  internal financial rate of return  is calculated to be about
8 percent.  It is substantially less than the economic return which includes
more quantifiable project benefits.



ANiNEX 19
-  61  -                            age 3 of 4
FIGURE 19-1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimation of Project Benefts
1.000-
PRICE PAID TO VENDORS
0Z 0.600
WATER DEMAND
0                                        4O 20               30                   40
WAfl I' CONUPION. 1.00 GALLON/Ef
W2ld BOnk 27AQ
-;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TrF '-DE TH PRJC



- 62 -                                           ANNEX 19
Page 4 of 4
TABLE 19-1
PEOPLEtS DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CALCULATION OF RETURN ON PROPOSED INVESThENTS 
Year  Incremental    Sales   Capital   Operating          Total       Not  ErJQ«eG1_.8enefits._3' YD M1iljon
Mm3       YD O106    Costs2'    Costs2        Costs2'  Revenues Low-Income  Other          Total
............ YD 1O6 .
_           _ _                                 Areas      Areas    BenCfits
1987       ---                   1.11                    1.11        -1.11        -
1988                   --        1.79         --          1.79       -1.79                -
1989                   --        2.62        ---         2.62       -2.62       ---        --
1990       ---          - -      0.86         ---        0.86       -0.86       ---        __        ---
1991     0.50         0.0S3      0.53       0.01         0.54       -0.46      0.08      0.06       0.14
1992     1.30         0.22        --        0.03         0.03        0.19      0.19      0.16       0.35
1993     2.00         0.33           -      0.05         0.05        0.28      0.29      0.24       0.53
1994     2.70         0.45          -       0.06         0.06        0.39      0.39      0.33       0.72
1995     3.40          0.56       ---       0.08         0.08        0.48      0.50      0.41       0.91
1996     4.16         0.69        ---       0.10         0.10        0.59      0.61      0.51       1.12
1997     4.92          0.82        ---      0.12         0.12        0.70      0.72      0.60       1.32
1998     5.68          0.94        ---      0.14         0.14        0.80      0.84      0.69       1.53
1999     6.44          1.07        ---      0.15         0.15        0.92      0.95      0.79       1.74
2000     7.20          1.20        ---      0.17          0.17        1.03     0.95      0.91       1.86
2001     7.96          1.32       ---       0.19          0.19        1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2002     7.96          1.32       ---       0.19          0.19        1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2003     7.96          1.32      0.12       0.19          0.31        1.01     0.95      1.04       1.99
2004     7.96          1.32       ---       0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2005     7.96          1.32        ---      0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2006     7.96          1.32       ---       0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2007     7.96          1.32        ---      0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2008     7.96          1.32        ---      0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2009     7.96          1.32        ---      0.19         0.19         1 13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2010     7.96          1.32         --      0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2011     7.96          1.32          -      0.59         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2012     7.96          1.32        ---      0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2013     7.95          1.32         --      0.19         0.19         1.12     0.95      1.04       1.99
2014     7.96          1.32         --      0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2015     7.96          1.32                 0.19         0.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
2016     7.96          1.32                 0.19         U.19         1.13     0.95      1.04       1.99
1o     All values in the cost and revenue streams are expressed in terms of the mid-1985 price levels.
2      Are net of taxes which amount to 5 percent of expenditures for civil works and consultant services
3/     Based on consumerssurplus stenuing from proposed services through   ndividual  house  connections.
Expenditures for the scrvice connections are included in the capital costs of the project.



PEOPLE'S ODHOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PRO3EaT
CONSOLIDATED WATER SALES & NUMBER OF SERVICE LINES
_   ltem                 ~~~~~~1983  198        198       I9S          l9t7       198        19i9       199        191        1219
W4ATER PRODUCTION. ?in3lyear
- Greater Aden                    22.70      23.31      24.10      24.70      25.80      26.50       27.40      28.20      28.90      29.80      30.80
Mukalla/Ghail/Sher              1.75       3.09       3.28       3.36        3.53       3.55       3.82       4.01       4.07       4.21       4.37
-  Greater Seiyun                  ---        ---         ---        1.21       1.33       1.37       1.56       1.72       1.83       1.97       2.19
-  Hcwtah/Dhala                    0.98       1.74       1.83        1.86       '.94       1.94       2.06       2.15       2.18       2.28       2.50
Total eroducLion               25.43      2i1J       29.21      31.3       32.60 h3.3L            34.84      36.08      36.98      38.26      39.a6
B   WATER SALES. Hm3l3ear
-  Greater Aden                   15.30      17.09      17.83       18.50      19.46      19.90      20.69      21.30      21.85      22.65      23.30
-  Mukalla/Ghall/Sher              1.60       1.67        1.77       1.88       2.00       2.13       2.26       2.38       2.50       2.63       2.80
-  Greater Seuyun                    ---                            0.68        0.75       0.83       0.92       1.02       1.12       1.23       1.40
-  Hawtah/Ohala                    0.90       0.94       0.99        1.04       1.10       1.16       1.22       1.28       1.34       1.42       1.60
-           -          -         -~~~                      ~     ~    ~    ~~~~-  -  --I
-  Total  Sales                   17.80       J         20.59      2Z.10       23.31      24.02      25.09      25.98      26.81      Z.         29.10 
C.  NUMBER OF SERVICE LINES
-  Greater Aden                   42,846    44,728    47.900    48,600    50,600    52,000    53,600    SS.100    56.500    58.200    60.000
-  Mukalla/Ghail/Sher             18,000     18,800    19,500    20,300    21,100    22,000    22,900    23,800    24,800    25,800    26,800
-  Greater Seiuyn                   ---       ---        ---        6,460       6,960      7,450      7,940      8,490      9.040      9,S90    10,190
-  Hawtah/Ohala                    6,040      6,270      6.500      6,700      6,900       7,100      7,300      7.500      7.700      8,000      8.300
-  Total Hmbar                   fifi_l      70.923    723900    82.060    85.560    8.sS0    91.740    24.890    98.040   II0590   105iZ20
-  Additional in Year              3787       4037       2.Z7       8.960       3.500      2.990      3,190      3.150      3.150      3.550      3.700
0.  UNACCOUNTED FOR WATER - X           30.        39.                              2a.q                   ZL.0       Z.L15 21^                        Z.L2
Ig



ANNEX 21
_   64
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECONO STAGE
UPDATED ANNUAL-INVESTMENTS ON SEIYUN PROJECT - CREDIT 1418-YDR
(YD Thousand)
ITEMICONTRACTOR                   14i8 1985                   JVM                 1989      12fl      1211     TOTAL
Upper Tuban Study/Mc Donald         35        38        37                                             ---       110
Tarin and Seiyun Studies/
John Taylor                       22        54       60       ----                                            136
Exploratory Boreholes/ARCIF         18       163       ------                                                   181
Construction of Borcholes/
Mc Connell                                 271      _-_                                                       271
Civil Works Construction/Dandar  ---    1.463    1.360          906                                     -      3.729
Construction Supervision/
John Taylor                              ---       84        78        53       --    -            ---      215
Supply of Secondary Pipes                           ---       173       173                          ---      346
Laying of Secondary Pipes                  ---      ---       ---        76       76        23         -       175
Supply of Water Meters                              ---        34        34                          ---        68
Operational Equipment            ---       ---      ---        35        34                                     69
Techntcal Assistance             ----        6        go        3        _I       _         =                   19
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                   Z5    1.99S    1I.55      1.229                 Z Zki                      5.319
Contract Retentions                ---       (43)    (126)    (113)        (8)      275                 15       431
Accounts Payable                   ---      (521)    (382)    (289)    (166)        (95)     ---       ---    1.305
NET DISBURSEMENTS                   75    1.431    1,564    1.209         485      422       118        1S    5.319
IDA                                 58       669      665       441       163      190        56        _     2.242
Arab Fund                          ---       563      708       655       237       143       39        _     2.345
Government                          17       199      191       113      ..B        _U                  11       732
TOTAL           75    1.431    1.564    1.209        485       422       118        15    5,319



-   65   -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
UPDATED ANNUAL INVESTMENTS ON FIRST ADEN PROJECT - CREDIT 1038-YDR
(YD Thousand)
Cumulative
FINANCING SOURCE                   to Dec. 31
l8191984 8 198                                        TOTAL
A. IDA - CREDIT 1038-YDR
1. Additional Investments           ---      1.249                                       1.489
2. Contract Retentions              ---         23                                          263
3. Net Disbursements              3.049      1.055        171                            4,275
B. AFESO - LOAN 63/81
1. Addittonal Investments           ---      1,541      1.370                            2.911
2. Contract Retentions              ---        200        (83)        ---                   117
3. Net Disbursements              1,177      1.006      1.420        368        ---      3.971
C. OPEC - LOAN 202-P
1. Additional Investments           ---        794        ---        ---        ---794
2. Contract Retentions              ---         81        ---         ---        ---         81
3. Net Disbursements                666        540        173                      _     1.379
0. 105 - LOAN 3/YDOkWATER
1. Additional 7nvestments           ---        572        199         -__
2. Contract Retentions              ---        115          13                              __
3. Net Disbursements                769        343        300        ---                 1.412
E. GOVERNMENT FUNDS
1. Additional Investments           ---      1,426        419        ---                 1.845
2. Contract Retentions              ---         14       (243)      (2343      (233)       (696)
3. Net Disbursements              1.381      1.059        86S        384        233      3.922
F. CONSOLIDATED SOURCES
1. Total Investments              7.389    12,971      14.959    14.959    14.959
2. Contract Retentions              347        780        467        233         ---
3. Net Disbursements              7.042    11,045    13,974    14,726    14.959
4. Accounts Payable                  --      1.146        518        ---        ---
TOTAL SOURCES         7.389    12.971      14.959    14.959    14.959



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
SCHEOULE OF PWC'S LOAN REPAYMENT
IYo Thousand)
LQAILS TO PWC                            1985                                                                                    ]fll 119 
A. PROPOSEO IDA CREDIT
- Interest                       ---                           ---                             ---                                     117           232
- Amortization                                  ---              ---           ---                    ---   ---                        137           137
- Total Debt Service             ---              ---          ---                     ---        -                       ------254                  3a9
B. IOA CREDIT 1038-YDR
- Interest                        ---             351          376             348             320           292          264          236           208
- Amortization                                    340          340             340             340           340          340          340           340
- Total Debt Service                              691          716             688             660           632          604          576           548
C. IOA CREDIT 11S9-YDR
- Interest                        ---              60          110              102             94            86           78           70            62
- Amortization                   ---               84           84              84              84            84           84           84            84
- Total Debt Service             ---              144          194             186             178           170          162          154           146
0. IDA CREDIT 1418-YDR
- Interest                                        ---          ---              39             185           181          171          155           141
- Amortization                                    ---          ---              88             176           176          176          176           176    a%
- Total Debt Service             ---              ---          ---             127             361           357          347          331           317
E OPEC LOAN 202-P
- Interest                       ---               38           37               33             28            24           20           1S            11
- Amortization                   ---              144          143              143            143           143          143          143           143
- Total Debt Service             ---              182          180             176             171           167          163          158           154
F. IOB LOAN 3/YDR/WATER
- Interest                        ---              30           30               30             30            30           30           30            30
- Amortization                    ---              94           94              94              94            94           94           94            94
- Total Debt Service              ---             124          124             124             124           124          124          124           124
G. CONSOLIDATED LOANS
- Total Interest                  ---             479          553             552             657           613          563          623           684
- Total Amortization              ---             662          661             749             837           837          837          974           974
- TOTAL DEBT SERVICE             ---            1,141        1:214           1,301           1,49          1.450        1,400        1,597         1,658
_  _=    = =    = =   = =      =     =      z     = =    = =    = =   = =    = =     =      =      =     = =   = =   = =   = =x



- 67 -
ANNEX 24
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJEC'
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE [N THE PROJECT FILE
1.         Greater  Aden  Water  Supply  Project  -  Stage  2,  Preliminary
Design Report, Sir M. MacEonald and Partners Limited, May, 1985
2.         Evaluation and  Institutional  Study  of  the  Sewerage  Sector,
John Taylor and Sons, September 1983
3.         Public Water Corporation - 1985 Budget
4.         Ministerial  Decision  No.  10  - 1981  Regulating  the General
Corporation for Water Supply, Ministrv of Local Government
5.         Law No. 163 Regulating Water Supply in the PDRY
6.         Draft Plumbing Code
7.         Greater    Aden   Water    Supply    Project    (14    Volumes),
SOGREAH Consulting Engineers, 1979
8.         Wadi Tuban Water Management Study,  Ground Water Development
ConsuLtants, July 1981
9.         The Underground  Water  Resources  of  the Delta  Part  of  the
Wadi Tuban Catchment Area, FAO, Technical Report No. 6, 1970
10.         Rapid Assessment Report on Potable Water Supply in PDRY, 1978
11.         Five-Year Plan (1981-85), Principal Indicators by Governorate,
Ministry of Planning, PDRY
12.         Detailed Design of the Upper Tuban Wellfield and Transmission
Pipeline to Bir Nasir, Interim Report,
Sir M. MacDonald and Partners Limited, January 1985



9                                                               JO '  obl-
N30~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~m /uo 4WoU AxwA AN Jo
oiPM ai Onug pa Atw'
w~~~~~~~~~qJni9,t  ':-I                                              :0 .-:.: Ofri                    i       t O4
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOS PM *18 Wm W v w t  POxw
- . ..... ,*i- i--. JDMLj o         o    'A......./ di    4' Xt,NSAP\
._as)a8- ,-     W.   I              I                                                           >
,';:,i.l ~ ~ ~      M. ifi!                                                                                /
.-:'ii?-ii   .........X 
.. - ..                      - ... : - -            IV                          .P!
-~~~  ~~             --,j--iDDO               
- ~~ O                                                                                                      Y/k
orlenld3H                                                            .91-
, .~ ~ .9
I  I           I ~~~ElIVaI
oLsI             001               Oq                 o
.  ...... ...............r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   . 
MONO1   OLSN~J UIVU
Ai DII'VdDOW3J S1JldO3d
.9fr                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~09f



IBRD 19254R
5O                              52'
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                           200
PROJECT AREA
ATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                            PRIMARY ROADS
- - --- - - MAIN TRACKS
cat'ion                                                                         INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
p                   .±,    HARBOR
........--GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
S              , _:--:              .    *-  INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS
0-200 METERS
201-1 000 METERS
1001-2000 METERS
2001-3000 METERS
PThamud    -|
oEBirTamis                    '       GHEI DAH H
= fA/                                -                              -I
-                    --              -.      ,
lflE3   '-          '            : -     -:.: :-- p0-',>w   pAl-Gheidoh
i.3u; *qi ,tBo .c'Tsn % yUrnl  ...--,,,. ,;-,,,,., f
A I
,,    ii.y >AMoUnT-t
S                             Sol-b-:y
*                            7t;f Sv4_
GI ,_ *%Al Hlibs
_ Hawu'r      _- -     Qusayir
',hihr
-      A       Al Muklici
..rg', /,v                                                                   14-
EDE
500                                52
SEPTEMBER 1985



PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                             4
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT OF THE WATER SUPPLY NETWORK
0       1        2        3       4
KILOMEFERS                                                       - I                ' L
..KJad VVW Pkoe
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O S -a -
a...                    -              B4 llqen e   W ate                                          5dpe        ,
0        ~~~~Reservoks 
Pumpng Sktbas                                               n      
.>, .; r. -   (~~~~)         Wbll Rods                                                                .
BevtEed wter Tanks
Hwh3ys and Major City Roads
t: T#ons, 
.  2   A  6   a    10
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                                            I ,    _  11#- -



; -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .  .-,..   l,c



