Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14618
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1739-YDR)
JUNE 19, 1995
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                             =      Yemeni Rial (YR)
YR I                 =      100 Fils
Exchange Rates
Duty Exchange Rate YR    18.00          =      US$ 1 (1994)
Official Exchange Rate
YR    9.76           =     US$ 1 (1987-89)
YR    12.01          =     US$ I (1990)
YR    12.00          =     US$ 1 (1991-March 1995)
YR    50.00          =     US$ 1 (April 1995 - present)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                             I Imperial System
Meter (m)                          =       3.28 feet (ft)
Cubic meter (in3)                  =      220 gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year) =    0.603 million gallons per day (mgd)
Liter (1)                          =      0.220 gallon (g)
Liters per second (1/sec)          =       19,000 gallons per day (gd)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
MEW           Ministry of Electricity and Water
NWSA          National Water and Sanitation Authority
PDRY          People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PWC           Public Water Corporation
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
YAR           Yemen Arab Republic
NWSA's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE . ............................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . ..........................................  iii
PART I Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction .................................................. 1
Project Objectives ..............................................  1
Achievement of Objectives . ........................................ 2
Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........             ......................... 4
Sustainability  ...............................................   7
IDA Performance  ..............................................  8
Borrower Performance  . .......................................... 9
Assessment of Outcome    .........................................   10
Future Operations ......................................... 1
Key Lessons Learned ........................................    11
PART II Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................... 16
Table 3: Project Timetable ......  18
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .19
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Operation .21
Table 6B: Sector Performance Indicators .22
Table 7A: Studies Included in Project .23
Table 7B: Project's Physical Components .24
Table 8A: Project Costs in Local Currency .25
Table 8B: Project Costs in Foreign Currency .26
Table  8C:   Project Financing    .....................................  27
Table 8D: Credit Categories .27
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits .28
Table 9B:  Economic Rate of Return at Various Vendor Prices .29
Table 9C: GDP Deflator Used .29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .30
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .31
Table 13: Bank Missions .32
Table 14: Financial Statements for NWSA .33
Appendices
A. Project Implementation Report for Greater Aden Water Supply Project, Second Stage,
prepared by NWSA Aden Branch Office (dated March 1995)
B Map IBRD 19255R: General Layout of the Water Supply Network
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1739 - YDR
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Greater Aden Second Water
Supply Project in the Republic of Yemen, for which Credit 1739-YDR in the amount of US$5.6
million or SDR5.3 million was approved on October 30, 1986 and was made effective on August 20,
1987. The Credit was made to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY).'
The credit was closed on October 31, 1994, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1993. Final disbursement took place on March 17, 1995, at which time a balance of
US$0.68 million was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by a mission2 from the Private Sector Development and Infrastructure
Division of the Middle East & North Africa Region and reviewed by Alastair J. McKechnie (Division
Chief) and Gianni Brizzi (Projects Advisor). The beneficiary and implementing agency, the National
Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA) Aden Branch office (the former Public Water Corporation-
PWC), contributed on behalf of the Borrower, the Government of Yemen, to the preparation of the
ICR by presenting its viewpoints on different matters and events, preparing its own evaluation of
project preparation and implementation (enclosed as Appendix A), and commenting on the draft ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during IDA's April/May 1994 supervision/completion mission,
which was aborted by the civil strife. The next mission took place in September 1994 with the main
objective of reviewing potential financial assistance in the repair of war-damaged facilities. This
resulted in an extension of the closing date, thereby allowing the use of a portion of the remaining
IDA credit. A follow up to the aborted completion mission took place in March 1995, in conjunction
with a sector portfolio performance review. The ICR is based on material in the project file and on
information provided by NWSA.
1/  In May 1990, the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) and the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) united into the Republic of
Yemen (ROY). As a result, the Public Water Corporation (PWC) of the former PDRY and the National Water and Sewerage Authority of
the former YAR merged into the National Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA). The ICR involves both the former PWC and NWSA,
which are referred to according to the timing of events taking place.
2/  Consisting of Messrs. Lars Rasmusson (Task Manager and Mission Leader), Josephine Masanque (Financial Analyst)
and Suhail Jme'an (Consultant) .






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1739 - YDR
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
IDA has previously made four credits in the sector to finance water supply works in the three
largest cities of the former Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY). The first credit was for
an engineering project including the preparation of a Greater Aden Water Supply Master Plan, which
also covered the development of ground water resources for Aden and Al-Mukalla. Under these
arrangements the foundation was laid for the development of the former Public Water Corporation
(PWC), which was responsible for the provision of water supply services in PDRY.
The Project (the fifth IDA credit), which is a continuation of previous achievements, earned a
high priority in the PDRY's investment program. It covered the extension of water production and
distribution facilities and provisions for the strengthening of the former PWC. Four lending agencies
- IDA, the Arab Fund, the Kuwait Fund, and Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA) -
contributed to the financing of the Project.
The former PWC satisfactorily implemented all the previous projects, complying with the
covenants and maintaining a good disbursement record.
Project Objectives
The Project objectives were: (i) to increase the water production to meet the peak demand for
the year 2000; and (ii) to carry out a program to improve the operations of the former PWC. The
objectives defined clearly the projected increase in water production, but failed to specify the targets
for the improvement of operations. The restructuring of the Project, as a consequence of the Gulf
war (which affected the operations of the PWC/NWSA), did not include any revision of the
objectives.
Implementation Experience and Results
With a population growth far exceeding the original projections, it does not seem to be
possible to satisfy the peak demand by the year 2000 with the additional water production capacity
provided under the Project. On the second objective to improve the operations of the PWC, an
assessment was made on progress on the establishment of a hydrogeological unit, the reduction of
unaccounted-for water, training, and the provision of operational equipment. Although data obtained
show that the unaccounted-for water is under control, the lack of sufficient progress on the other
items would conclude that the Project failed to achieve this objective. On a short-term basis the
sustainability of the Project is assured, while the sustainability on a long-term basis can only be
assured through specific follow up actions on institutional restructuring. The Project proved its



iv                                                                      Evaluation Summary
sustainability during and after the civil strife through the provision of a safe and continuous water
supply.
The evaluation of projected-versus-actual costs was made for the foreign costs only, which
shows an increase of about 64 percent for the physical component of the Project. This is attributed
mainly to an extended project implementation period and related price inflation. The financing of the
Project experienced significant changes, with the withdrawal of the Kuwait Fund, the still undisbursed
Arab Fund, the IDA credit cancellation of about US$0.68 million, and an increase in the DANIDA
contributions from US$10.0 million to US$24.4 million equivalent, which was crucial for the
completion of the Project. On project implementation, the first contract started about 3.5 years
behind schedule, and other contracts experienced similar delays.
The unforeseen key factors that affected the implementation of the Project were the Gulf war,
the unification of the country, and the civil strife, which were outside the control of the Government.
However, other factors such as weak project management, inadequate increases in tariff levels, and
cumbersome procedures in custom clearances, procurement and disbursements could have been
influenced by the Government/NWSA. The Arab Fund also suspended its disbursements due to the
Government's non-payment of arrears, which was not resolved until early 1995.
Bank and Borrower Performance
The problems encountered during project implementation were numerous and complex, and
IDA missions had to deal with a sector authority that worked under considerable constraints. IDA
performance through project preparation and implementation could have been more satisfactory, with
a more proactive and consistent approach from IDA missions. Although efforts were made by
PWC/NWSA to cope with the issues and the workload, an analysis of achievements and shortcomings
would conclude that their overall performance was inadequate to ensure effective project
implementation particularly following the unification of the country. The above conclusions reflect
the occurrence of a leaking storage tank and of damaged and missing pipes, the uncertainty in the
long-term sustainability of the ground water resources, inadequate project management and
operational capacity, insufficient revenue generation, and credit covenants in default.
The audit report for 1992 will be completed in May 1995, while the audit reports for 1993
and 1994 are scheduled for submission by end of 1995. The cost recovery covenant was complied
with through 1990 but has since then been in default despite tariff increases made in 1993. However,
in April 1995, the Government authorized a tariff increase, which for 1995 would be sufficient for
compliance with the covenant3. No progress reports were prepared for the monitoring of specific
performance indicators, but reports were prepared by the supervisory consultant on progress under the
different contracts.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
To be able to monitor future operational performance, relevant indicators have been specified
and will be reviewed on an annual basis. The Arab Fund has resumed its commitments under the
Project, which will result in improvements to be made in water distribution. An approach to sector
3/  At the exchange rate of YR= US$50.00.



Evaluation Summary                                                                        v
reforms has been agreed to and initiated, which would lead to the establishment of regional water
supply and sanitation companies with a significant degree of autonomy and operation on a commercial
basis. The NWSA Aden branch office (the successor of PWC) would then be developed into such a
company and incorporate the responsibility for waste water collection and disposal. Generic issues
referring to procurement, disbursement, and custom clearances will be addressed on a country wide
basis. Although future IDA lending operations in the sector are not envisaged to include Aden,
institutional restructuring supported under future projects would benefit Aden.
Major lessons learned are: more emphasis should have been placed on the initial
establishment of an adequate project management capacity; a consultant agreement for construction
supervision should cover all relevant contracts (the contract for supply of pipes was initially
excluded), and preferably the same consulting firm should be retained for engineering and
construction supervision; when a significant change occurs (such as the Gulf war and unification) its
impact should be evaluated with due adjustments to be made in project objectives, description and
implementation; contracts should cover complete works and not be divided, as was made for the
transmission main, between supply of pipes and laying; in cases of parallel financing each lending
agency should preferably finance specific and self standing project components; and institutional
autonomy, decentralization and operation on commercial basis are prerequisites for achieving
satisfactory performance in project preparation and implementation and in works operation. The long
time span between project appraisal and the award of the first contract would also indicate the
importance of better project preparation.



m



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1739 - YDR
PART I
Project Implementation Assessment
1     Introduction
1.01   Preceding this Project, IDA has made four credits in the sector to finance water supply works
in the three largest cities in the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY). The first
credit was for an engineering project, including the preparation of a Greater Aden Water Supply
Master Plan. The Master Plan was completed in 1978, which provided the basis for the first Greater
Aden Water Supply Project and for the development and management of water resources for Aden
and Al-Mukalla. Under these arrangements, the foundation was laid for the development of the
former Public Water Corporation (PWC), which was responsible for the provision of water supply
services in PDRY.
1.02   The Project, which was a continuation of previous achievements and was given a high priority
in the PDRY's investment program, included: (i) drilling and equipping twenty boreholes in Upper
Tuban, five boreholes at Bir Nasir and three boreholes at Bir Almed; (ii) providing electrical and
mechanical equipment for the Upper Tuban wellfield, including pipes and two storage tanks; (iii)
constructing a transmission main between the Upper Tuban wellfield and Bir Nasir; (iv) rehabilitating
and strengthening the distribution networks; (v) renovating and, where needed, replacing pumping
stations and storage tanks; and (vi) providing technical assistance (TA) to the PWC, including training
and operational equipment.
1.03   Four lending agencies were involved: (i) IDA would finance the drilling of all boreholes, the
hydrogeological studies, the leak detection/pipe repairs, the operational equipment, the construction
supervision (60 percent), and TA and training; (ii) DANIDA would finance the supply and installation
of borehole equipment, civil works construction, water works rehabilitation, and renovation of
pumping stations; and (iii) Arab Fund and Kuwait Fund would finance the supply of pipes and
equipment and construction supervision (40 percent).
1.04   All four previous projects in the sector were satisfactorily iniplemented. The PWC, which
was the executing agency, performed well, complying with the credit covenants and maintaining a
good disbursement record.
2.    Project Objectives
2.01   The Project objectives were to increase the water production to meet the peak demand for the
year 2000; and to carry out a program to improve the operations of NWSA.  The projected increase



2                                                             Implementation Completion Report
in water production was a well-defined objective. There were no objectives set to improve the
distribution system capacity in terms of service levels and standards. Although there was a target set
to improve water services in low income areas with the provision of 11,900 individual service
connections, there were no specific targets identified to improve the operations. When the Project
was restructured as a consequence of the Gulf war (which affected the operations of the
PWC/NWSA), the Project objectives were not reviewed. Neither were any revisions made when
PWC was merged with NWSA and became a NWSA Aden branch office.
2.02   The objectives were realistic, although the second objective is more difficult to assess, since
no specific targets were determined. The objectives, which aimed at improving the water supply
services, were important for the country and the sector. The Project was rather demanding on the
implementing agency regarding the need to coordinate four external financing sources with different
financing arrangements. The Project was rather simple because of the clear nature of its physical
components, its geographical concentration and the absence of specific requirements for institutional
change. The Project was not risky, since the Gulf war, the unification or the civil strife could not
have been foreseen.
3.     Achievement of Objectives
3.01   Increase in Water Production. The sustainable yields, to the extent they can be determined at
present for each water source would be: (i) from Bir Nasir 12 million cubic meter per year (Mm3/y);
(ii) from old Bir Ahmed 4 Mm3/y; (iii) from Wadi Bana (also referred to as Upper Abyan Delta) 8.2
Mm3/y available for Greater Aden water supply; (iv) from Wadi Tuban 11.7 Mm3/y; and (v) from
new Bir Ahmed 5 Mm3/y4. The water production added under the Project will amount to about 16.7
Mm3/y (Wadi Tuban and new Bir Ahmed) or about 40 percent of total capacity 40.9 Mm3/y. To this
can be added 2.6 Mm3/y from the desalination plant, which is uneconomical to produce and should
not be considered as part of the supply.
3.02   The NWSA Aden branch office estimates the average water demand (including the
unaccounted-for water) for 1995 and 2000 at 31.6 Mm3/y and 37.6 Mm3/y, respectively, which are
close to the assumptions made at appraisal. This would conclude that the water production capacity,
as extended under the Project, will be able to cope with the peak demand for the year 2000, since
average pumping from the ground water sources would not exceed sustainable yields under present
conditions. However, this analysis underestimates the population growth due to migration caused by
the Gulf war and the civil strife. With a population of about 600,000 in 1994, instead of 352,000 as
projected at project appraisal (440,000 projected at year 2000), additional water production capacity
will be required before the year 2000 to satisfy the demands.
3.03   Improve the Operations of the PWC. In assessing the objective to carry out a program to
improve the operations of NWSA, the following specific activities were taken into account:
4/  Under the IDA credit, boreholes have been drilled, while pumps, electrical equipment and pipes/fittings have been delivered to the
site but remain to be installed. Government will finance additional investments with works scheduled to be completed before April 1, 1996.



Implementation Completion Report                                                           3
(i)    establishment of a hydrogeological unit with preparation of the relevant studies;
(ii)   reduction of unaccounted-for water through leak detection and pipe repair;
(iii)   provision for training; and
(iv)   provision for operational equipment.
3.04 Establishment of a Hvdrogeological Unit with the Preparation of the Relevant Studies: (i)
under the Project about US$814,000 was projected to be spent on hydrogeological related activities,
while actual amount spent was limited to US$45,000; (ii) two advisors should have been recruited for
an initial period of three years; one was recruited but his contract was terminated after about six
months because of lack of communication skills in English; tasks supposed to be carried out with the
assistance of the advisors were never undertaken, such as installation of rainfall and gauging stations,
review of the geology of the ground water catchment basins, and collection and analysis of data; and,
(iii) the hydrogeological unit was never established and no equipment was procured. In conclusion,
an institutional structure for effective ground water resources management was never developed.
Unless remedial actions are taken, this could in the long run prejudice the sustainability of existing
ground water supplies.
3.05   Reduction of Unaccounted-for Water through Leak Detection and Pipe Repair: (i)
unaccounted-for water, which was estimated at 26 percent at appraisal and projected to decrease to 24
percent during project implementation, has remained constant at about 25 percent; (ii) under the
project about US$362,000 was projected to be spent on leak detection and pipe repairs, while actual
amount spent was limited to about US$149,000; this covered the purchase of 30,000 small and 35
large water meters and leak detection equipment; (iii) a leak detection unit was established and the
training provided was about adequate; however, the equipment was used only for a short period,
whereafter it was abandoned, and only visible leaks have been attended to; (iv) it is estimated that
some 20,000 water meters (of a total number of 86,000) are out of order and pipe
repairs/rehabilitation have only taken place as a response to emergency; and (v) no special
maintenance programs were developed to handle the adverse effects of the corrosive nature of soils
and water on metallic structures and pipes. Although some uncertainties remain on the validity of the
data, unaccounted-for water appears to be kept under control.
3.06   Provision for Trainigg: (i) about US$361,000 was projected to be spent on training, while
actual amount spent was limited to about US$109,000; (ii) the targets established at the time for
appraisal were to train 30 high level staff members in sanitary engineering and 400 other staff
members for a minimum period of three months in respective fields of specializations; (iii) actual
training undertaken was limited to: 12 high level staff members with eight attending training courses
overseas and four in Yemen, six staff members were trained in computerized accounting in Yemen,
and some on-site training has taken place. The training did not meet the targets, nor was it carried
out within an overall framework for human resources development.
3.07   Provision for Operational Equipment: (i) about US$327,000 was projected to be spent on
operational equipment, while actual amount spent was limited to US$149,000 covering, inter alia,
four small cars; and (ii) very limited funds were spent on items, such as hydraulic and workshop
tools, laboratory materials, cranes, trucks and vehicles for maintenance and operation. Provision of
badly needed operational equipment was inadequate, although towards the end of the Project,
additional funds were spent mainly to replace stolen and confiscated vehicles during the civil strife.



4                                                           Implementation Completion Report
3.08   The Project failed to achieve the objective of carrying out a program to improve the
operations of NWSA due to reduced financing sources and inadequate project preparation, which was
not compensated by forceful project implementation. A portion of the IDA credit was cancelled,
since it could not be properly utilized. However, the number of service connections has increased, as
envisaged at appraisal, and it can be concluded that the target to serve low income areas has basically
been fulfilled.
4.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
4.01   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control. The Gulf war in 1990/1991 affected
the Arab Fund, which had its headquarters in Kuwait, and its operation was severely restricted for a
long period. The Kuwait Fund withdrew altogether, which implied a reduction of US$6.15 million in
loan financing or about 19 percent of total project costs. This necessitated a restructuring of the
Project (in February 1991), which is summarized as:
(i)    IDA financing would cover: the drilling of 28 boreholes; supply of pipes and fittings
for Wadi Tuban and Bir Ahmed wellfields and transmission main to Bir Nasir;
reduced coverage of hydrogeological studies, leak detection and pipe repairs, training,
and operational equipment; and construction supervision (80 percent);
(ii)    DANIDA financing would cover: supply and installation of pumps and equipment and
high tension line for Wadi Tuban; laying of the transmission main to Bir Nasir;
construction of storage tank, control center and chlorination at Wadi Tuban; and
rehabilitation of the slaughterhouse pumping station.
(iii)   Arab Fund financing would cover: supply and installation of primary and secondary
distribution pipes; one or two storage tanks; and construction supervision (20
percent). These components have still to be implemented because of delays in
Government payment of arrears to the Arab Fund.
Other project components were excluded, such as the rehabilitation of two pumping stations,
replacement of three storage tanks, cathodic protection of steel storage tanks, and renovation of
electrical/mechanical equipment for the old wellfields. The pipe material for transmission and
distribution mains was also changed from ductile iron to asbestos cement to reduce the costs of the
Project.
4.02   The restructuring of the Project implied to a certain extent the retention of obsolete equipment
prone to breakdowns, which adversely could affect the operation of the overall water supply system.
The reduction in scope of works compromised the achievement of the project objective to improve the
operations of NWSA.
4.03   The unification of the country also affected the implementation of the Project on matters such
as:
(i)    Project management remained in Aden with overall coordination carried out from
Sana'a, which had both positive and negative effects;



Implementation Completion Report                                                          5
(ii)   Procurement processing became slower with the involvement of the High Tender
Board;
(iii)   Accounting and disbursement remained in Aden, delaying the consolidation of
accounts and audit reports;
(iv)   PWC was reduced to a NWSA Aden branch office;
(v)    Staff reassignments from Aden to Sana'a took place, which made NWSA Aden branch
office weaker than its predecessor; and
(vi)   Sector legislation for unification of the two water authorities has not been ratified,
which left the legal status of the beneficiary in a limbo.
4.04   At the outbreak of the civil strife on May 4, 1994, the bulk of the water production facilities
had fortunately been completed, which made it possible to supply badly needed water to the Greater
Aden. The impact of this event is assessed as:
(i)    No facilities or equipment provided under the project were damaged. However, other
works were damaged severely restricting works operation (offices were looted and
vehicles were confiscated or stolen) and the provision of water supply services.
Through contributions from different financing agencies most of the works were
repaired and restored to pre-war conditions within a period of about 8 months. This
was a commendable achievement given the institutional problems that had existed
since unification.
(ii)   IDA accepted an extension of the closing date to October 31, 1994, which made
possible the use of a portion of the remaining IDA credit for the procurement of
office equipment, vehicles, mechanical and electrical equipment,and pipes and fittings
needed mainly because of the civil strife.
4.05 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Because of Government non-payment of
arrears to the Arab Fund, the project component -- rehabilitation and extension of the distribution
system-- was delayed. This was settled in early 1995, which will enable the contract for works
execution to be awarded by mid-1995 for completion by mid-1997. The credit covenant on cost
recovery was complied with through 1990, but thereafter it remained in default throughout project
implementation despite tariff increases in 1993. The NWSA Aden branch office raised its tariffs
separately for non-domestic users in 1993 and in January 1995 for domestic users, which improved its
financial situation. Such increases did not take place elsewhere in Yemen and reflect the commitment
of the management of the NWSA Aden branch office to the Project. However, these increases were
inadequate especially as the Government decided to raise wages in the south to northern levels after
unification and maintain excessive employment. Lack of funds adversely affected operation and
maintenance, although the extent is difficult to assess. No funds were generated for capital
investments. This, however, did not affect the provision of local counterpart funds, which was not a
serious issue in the execution of various contracts under the Project.



6                                                         Implementation Completion Report
4.06   Administrative procedures on procurement and custom clearances remained cumbersome, and
although proposals were made to address these issues, no action was taken. Deliveries were held up
for months in the Aden port affecting the execution of relevant contracts. Lengthy delays have
occurred in the processing of contracts at the High Tender Board. These issues, which are generic
and common for all sectors, are currently being addressed by the Bank in the context of a Country
Portfolio Performance Review.
4.07   An assessment of factors that have adversely affected project implementation and to various
degrees have been under the control of PWC/NWSA covers:
(i)    Project management and monitoring;
(ii)    Occurrence of the faulty storage tank;
(iii)   Pipe deliveries;
(iv)   Changes in cost estimates; and
(v)    Project implementation.
4.08   The project management unit was composed of a project director, one civil and one
mechanical/electrical engineer, and a secretary. The project director reported directly to the General
Manager of the NWSA Aden branch office. The weak perfornance of the project management unit
can be attributed to the lack of: (i) an overall coordinated approach to project implementation in
dealing with the various project components; (ii) forward planning which could have alerted NWSA
to use in time surplus fund for specific purposes; and (iii) a progress/monitoring reporting system that
was never developed.
4.09   At appraisal, two steel storage tanks each with a capacity of 5,000 cubic meter (in3) were
proposed to be constructed in connection with the Upper Tuban wellfield. This was altered to one
concrete storage tank with a capacity of 10,000 in3 to be financed by DANIDA under a contract
directly managed by DANIDA. During the testing of the storage tank, leakage occurred, which
caused uneven settlements with cracks developing in the bottom slab. Subsequent investigations
showed that the tank had been built on collapsible soil, and that although proposed, no soil surveys
had been carried out. Repair costs of about US$2.0 million equivalent were incurred, for which
funding was provided by DANIDA. The tank was satisfactorily retested and was commissioned
without any problems.
4.10   An assessment of the contract for the supply of pipes and fittings (financed under the IDA
credit) indicates that: (i) delivery should be made to the site but in practice was made to the port,
where it was taken over by the NWSA Aden branch office for transportation to a stockyard; (ii) no
inspection or take over took place at the port, and during transportation and off-loading significant
damages occurred to the asbestos-cement pipes (which in case of ductile iron would not have
happened, which, however, does not conclude that asbestos cement would not have been satisfactory
under normal conditions); during an inventory made at a later date, a certain amount of pipes/fittings
was also missing; and (iii) in order to complete the laying of the transmission main (financed by
DANIDA) and to avoid further delays and increased contractual costs, DANIDA took over the
procurement of missing or damaged pipes/fittings and funded related additional costs amounting to
about US$0.6 million.



Implementation Completion Report                                                        7
4.11   An assessment of the cost estimates as projected at appraisal and actual is limited to the
foreign cost component, since a comparison of local costs cannot be performed due to high inflation
and distorted exchange rates. The assessment, taking into account revisions made in scope of works,
indicates that:
(i)    The actual costs would be about US$47.6 million versus projected costs US$29.1
million (about 64 percent higher) for the physical works component, taking into
account additional funds to be spent on primary and secondary distributions systems
and reduction in works on rehabilitation.
(ii)    Under the technical assistance component, the difference between actual costs of about
US$0.7 million and projected costs of about US$1.9 million (about 171 percent lower)
refers to reductions in the scope of services.
(iii)   The total actual costs for construction supervision US$5.7 million are about 375
percent higher than the appraisal estimate of US$1.2 million.
An in-depth analysis of the reasons for the cost increases cannot readily be done, but in broad terms
they were caused by: increased price contingencies because of a 3-year (on the average) delay in
contracts' execution; the replacement of damaged/missing pipes and fittings through additional
procurement; the repair of the faulty storage tank; changes in procurement arrangements because of
tied financing; and higher-than-expected land acquisition costs. An underestimation of the costs at
appraisal can not be excluded.
4.12   The original project financing changed significantly. Under the IDA credit, about US$0.68
million remained unutilized and subsequently cancelled, while the DANIDA contribution increased
from about US$10.0 million to US$24.4 million. The Kuwait Fund financing was withdrawn, and
major works to be financed by the Arab Fund are yet to start. Funds to be provided by the
Government could increase to about 29 percent as compared to 13.2 percent estimated at appraisal in
order to complete all components. There were no funds generated internally from the operations.
DANIDA demonstrated commitment to the project goals and flexibility that led to the successful
completion of the water production and transmission facilities under the most difficult circumstances.
4.13   A comparison between projected and actual project implementation schedule shows that the
first contract was about 3.5 years behind schedule. This implies that very little work was carried out
during the first three years. Among the causes of delays were inadequate project preparation, weak
project management performance, and unexpected events (Gulf war and unification).
5.    Sustainability
5.01   The sustainability of the Project can be linked to the following factors:
(i)    Maintaining the Water Production Capacity. The training for the
operation and maintenance of the facilities was carried out as needed,
and spare parts will be provided by DANIDA beyond the initial
requirements. However, neither the hydrogeological unit nor the
mathematical modelling and monitoring systems were developed. On



8                                                             Implementation Completion Report
a short-term basis, sustainability would be assured, while on a long-
term basis it might be questionable.
(ii)    The Adeguacv of Water Distribution. The extension and
strengthening of the distribution network are yet to be carried out, and
a systematic approach to leak detection is still to be established. The
deletion or postponement of rehabilitation works for pumping stations
and storage tanks would affect the operational reliability. Satisfactory
sustainability is not guaranteed until the Arab Fund financed
distribution component is completed.
(iii)   The Capacity of the NWSA Aden Branch Office with the Equipment at its Disposal to
Sufficiently Cope with Present and Future Needs. The training did not take place as
envisaged, the hydrogeological unit was not established, the creation of a leak
detection unit did not materialize as expected, and operational/maintenance equipment
was not provided, as required. The NWSA Aden branch office is not in a position to
fully perform its various functions, although it may be one of the best performing
NWSA branch offices.
(iv)   Extent to which Recurrent Costs can be Covered by Revenue Generation. During
project implementation, the revenue generation was consistently inadequate to
maintain a satisfactory operational/maintenance standard. The revenue generation is
currently unable to assure sustainability, but this situation is expected to improve with
proposed increases in tariffs.
In conclusion, the continued sustainability of the Project can only be assured fully if the follow-up
activities outlined under para.9 are carried out.
6.     IDA Performance
6.01   Project identification was satisfactory as it reflected the sector priorities for the improvement
of water supply services. Project preparation and appraisal were not as satisfactory, due to: (i) the
lack of a well organized financing plan (grouping of contracts) by different lending agencies; (ii) a
project implementation plan, which was restricted to IDA financed project components and as such
failed to show the overall picture; (iii) failure to identify the need for a project management capacity;
and (iv) inadequate definition of scope of works for studies to be carried out. It could also be
concluded that because of initial delays in project execution, the Project was not sufficiently prepared
at the time for appraisal.
6.02   In an assessment of the IDA performance on Project supervision, the following factors are
relevant: (i) IDA did react to potential changes caused by unification but to no avail; the prevailing
situation should have been preserved until specific conclusions had been reached and agreed to; this
had a negative impact on overall project execution; (ii) for the construction of the storage tank the
need for a geotechnical survey was overlooked with wide-ranging consequences; (iii) IDA could have
been more alert on the contract for supply of pipes and fittings regarding arrangements made for local
transportation and responsibility for supervision; the consultant appointed for construction supervision
became responsible for this particular task only at a later stage, when the damage had already been



Implementation Completion Report                                                           9
done; (iv) DANIDA with IDA assistance took the lead in correcting the faulty storage tank; (v) IDA
did play an important role in the restructuring of the project after the Gulf war; and (vi) IDA showed
flexibility and responsiveness in the last minute use of remaining credit for procurement of badly
needed vehicles and equipment lost in the civil strife;
6.03   The problems encountered during project implementation were numerous and complex, and
IDA missions had to deal with a weakened sector authority working under enormous constraints. With
a more proactive or consistent approach, problems might have been mitigated. Supervision
concentrated on correcting technical failures and to some extent overlooked (at least at an early stage),
other matters, such as training, auditing and cost recovery. Overall, the IDA performance through
project preparation and implementation is assessed as partially satisfactory.
7.     Borrower Performance
7.01   The former PWC contributed to project preparation, and the Project can be considered as thie
product of a joint effort by PWC and the lending agencies. However, PWC/NWSA's performance
during project implementation is assessed as follows:
(i)    in operational matters: the hydrogeological unit was not established and the proposed
studies were not carried out; leak detection and pipe repairs did not take place to the
extent required; and training was not undertaken as envisaged;
(ii)   the project management unit remained weak, which affected contract processing and
implementation schedules, cost control, delivery and handling of equipment and
material, and works supervision; and
(iii)   major covenants were not complied with, and monitoring of progress with the
submission of regular progress reports (except for those prepared by the supervisory
consultant covering progress under specific contracts) was not done;
Although efforts were made to cope with the issues and the workload, an analysis of shortcomings
and achievements would conclude that the overall performance of PWC/NWSA deteriorated and
became inadequate to ensure effective project implementation.
7.02   One consulting firm was responsible for engineering design, and since its contract was not
extended for construction supervision, a change of consulting firm took place. It is normally
preferable to retain the same consulting firm throughout the engineering and construction supervision.
A fact-finding report on the issue of soil investigations concluded that both firms could be held
responsible for the failure of the storage tank. Since DANIDA financed the repair of the storage
tank, it also negotiated the potential compensations with the two firms. The first firm insisted on
bringing the case to arbitration, but DANIDA did not find it worthwhile to pursue the matter. The
second firm accepted an amicable settlement and DANIDA was compensated for part of its costs.
The second firm also replaced its project director and resident engineer, whose performance according
to NWSA and IDA missions, was not satisfactory. The consulting firm for construction supervision
cannot be held responsible for damages that occurred on pipes and fittings. Apart from the very
serious matter of neglecting to carry out soil investigations, the overall performance of the two
consulting firms on engineering and construction supervision could be considered as satisfactory.
Consulting firms engaged for specific studies or investigations performed well.



10                                                           Implementation Completion Report
7.03   DANIDA appointed its own consulting firm to manage the contract under its financing, which
almost made this particular portion of the Project to a self-sustained unit. This consulting firm
performed very well.
7.04   The contract for the supply of pipes and fittings faced a number of problems, such as delays
in the opening of a letter of credit and in the delivery of goods. The inspection of delivered goods,
which should have taken place at the port, was never carried out, and this makes it difficult to assign
responsibility for missing and damaged pipes. The execution of this contract was unsatisfactory.
Other contractors and suppliers (for drilling of wells, supply and installation of equipment for wells
and pumping station, construction of storage tank, and laying of pipes) performed well with quality of
works fully satisfactory. Any delays that occurred were mainly beyond their control.
7.05   An assessment of the compliance with the covenants under the Project Agreement indicates:
(i)    section 3.04: progress reporting, including specific monitoring indicators, never took
place. During various missions agreement was reached to begin this reporting but to
no avail;
(ii)   section 4.01: audit reports have been in default since 1992, but an action program
has been prepared for their submissions;
(iii)   section 4.03(a) stating "maintain revenues to meet all expenses, debt service
requirements, increases in working capital (excluding cash) and annual expenditures
equivalent to 9 percent in 1987, 10 percent in 1988 through 1992, and 12 percent
thereafter (as revised under subsequent credit 1944-YDR)". The covenant has, despite
a tariff increase in 1993, been in default since 1990, but with an agreed 40 percent
increase in the tariffs, the covenant will be in compliance for 1995;
(iv)   section 4.03(b) stating "send to IDA before November 30 the financial projections for
the following year". This has not been complied with since 1990.
The Borrower's performance on compliance with the covenants has therefore been deficient since the
merger of PWC into NWSA.
8.     Assessment of Outcome
8.01   The financial rate of return calculated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), about 8 percent,
used incremental revenues as an estimate of a minimum of benefits from the proposed investment.
The SAR had also estimated the economic rate of return, about 12 percent, based on an attempt to
assess the consumers' savings that would result from the Project. Prices charged by the water
vendors were used to calculate the savings.
8.02   The ex-post rate of return for the Project based on incremental benefits was negative, because
water tariffs (about YR8.7/m3 in 1993) remained below the cost of supply. However, an indicative
economic rate of return for the water supply can be estimated based on assumptions that: (a) the
project increased the amount of water arriving at low-income consumers' taps; and (b) using the price
that consumers pay for buying water from vendors, that is between YR40 to YR80 per cubic meter as



Implementation Completion Report                                                            17
proxy for willingness to pay for improved water supply. This resulted in an economic rate of return
between 5 percent and 14 percent (Tables 9A and 9B) with an average estimate of roughly 10 percent.
The assumptions underlying this rate of return calculation are admittedly broad and would need to be
verified through consumer surveys. Also, to be included in the evaluation of Project benefits would
be external benefits, which are extremely difficult to quantify, such as the favorable impact on general
health conditions arising from improved sanitation and a continuous water supply.
8.03   The Project under normal circumstances would most likely have achieved its objectives but
mainly because of major disturbing events, that could not have been foreseen, the Project in its
overall performance is rated as partially satisfactory. The major reasons would be: the present lack of
assurance on long term sustainability; the rehabilitation and strengthening of the distribution system
that remains to be done; an operational capacity that was not developed as envisaged; and inadequate
tariff levels for securing financial viability.
9.     Future Operations
9.01   In order to monitor future operational performance, relevant operational indicators have been
agreed to and these will be reviewed on an annual basis during the supervision of other IDA water
projects. The Arab Fund has resumed its commitments under the Project, which will result in
improvements to be made in water distribution. An approach to sector reforms has been initiated.
This should lead to the establishment of regional water supply and sanitation companies with a
significant degree of autonomy that would be operated on a commercial basis. Functions to be
performed at the national level would then be limited to policy, advisory and regulatory matters.
Generic issues referring to procurement, disbursement and custom clearances will be addressed on a
country-wide basis, which would lead to a simplification and streamlining of processes and
procedures. The NWSA Aden branch would then be developed into a regional company with
additional responsibility for waste water collection and disposal.
9.02   If sector reforms leading to improvements in operational performance are implemented, the
prospects for Project sustainability are good. IDA should pursue such reforms and link any future
lending to specific targets on sector restructuring.
10.    Key Lessons Learned
10.01  The Project has demonstrated that:
(i)    It is essential from an early date to establish a competent project
management unit and to create an environment, where it can fully
perform its functions;
(ii)    A consultant agreement on construction supervision should cover all relevant contracts
and it should not have excluded, as was initially done in this particular case, the
contract on supply of pipes;
(iii)   The same consulting firm should preferably be retained for engineering and
construction supervision;



12                                                            Implementation Completion Report
(iv)   When a significant event occurs (such as the Gulf war and
unification), its impact should be evaluated with due adjustments to be
made in project objectives, descriptions and implementation; at the
time for unification the prevailing situation should have been
preserved until specific proposals on changes to take place had been
agreed to;
(v)    Contracts should preferably cover complete works and not be divided,
as was done for the transmission main, between supply of pipes and
laying;
(vi)   In cases of parallel financing, each lending agency should preferably
finance specific and self-standing project components;
(vii)  Institutional autonomy, decentralization and operation on a commercial
basis are prerequisites for achieving satisfactory performance in
project preparation, implementation and operation; and
(viii)  Project preparation should at appraisal be sufficiently advanced to
enable award of contracts within a reasonable time period.
m:\yem\pal30\pcr\april.icr



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
CREDIT 1739-YDR
PART II
Statistical Annexes
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6A:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 6B:     Sector Performance Indicators
Table 7A:     Studies Included in Project
Table 7B:     Project's Physical Components Financed by the Credit
Table 8A:     Project Costs - Local Currency
Table 8B:     Project Costs - Foreign Currency
Table 8C:     Project Financing
Table 8D:     Credit Categories
Table 9A:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9B:      Economic Rate of Return at Various Vendor Prices
Table 9C:     GDP Deflator Used
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14:     Financial Statements for the NWSA



14                                                         Implementation Completion Report



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                           15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of objectives      Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                /
Sector policies                                                       /
Financial objectives                       /
Institutional development                               /
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                          /
Gender concerns                                                       /
Other social objectives                                               /
Environmental objectives      /
Public sector                                           /
management
Private sector                                                        /
development
Other                                                                 /
Not
Substantial    Partial    Neyligible    Applicable
B. Project sustainability                          /
Highly
C. Bank performance           satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                             /
Preparation                                /
Appraisal                                                  /
Supervision                                                /
Highly
D. Borrower performance       satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                /
Implementation                                             /
Covenant                                                   /
compliance
Operation                                  /
HighlY                                                    Highly
satisfactory       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome



16                                                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Approval
Loan/Credit Title                                  Purpose                            (mo./yr)        Status
Preceding Operations
1.  Sana'a Water Supply (Credit      Provide additional water supply capacity to Sana'a, Expand  01/74       Closed in
464; US$6.25 million equivalent)  the distribution network. Provide operation and                          6/80.
maintenance equipment and training. Provide technical
assistance to develop operation and management capability
of NWSA.
2.  Hodeidah Water Supply and        Provide additional water supply and sewerage capacity to    06/75        Closed in
Sewerage                         Hodeidah. Develop institutional and management capability                06/82.
(Credit 0559; US$8.10 million    of NWSA through training, studies and technical assistance.
equivalent)
3.  Sana'a 2nd Water Supply and      Provide additional water supply capacity to Sana'a,         12/76       Closed in
Sewerage                         Installation of sewerage network. Develop institutional and              12/84.
(Credit 0670; US$10.0 million    operational capacity of NWSA through training, studies and
equivalent)                     technical assistance.
4.  lbb and Dhamar Water Supply       Provide potable water and sewerage system for the cities of  09/79      Closed in
and Sewerage                     Ibb and Dhamar. Develop institutional and operational                    12/84.
(Credit 0950; US$12.0 million    capability of NWSA.
equivalent)
5.  Greater Aden Water Supply        Increase water supply to meet demand for the Year 1987 in   06/80       Closed in
(Credit 1038; US$13.2 million    Aden. Rehabilitate existing water supply system and expand               12/85.
equivalent)                      distribution network. Improve management capabilities of
former PWC through training, studies and technical
assistance.
6.  Al-Mukalla Water Supply          Rehabilitate existing water supply system of Al-Mukalla.    06/81       Closed in
Rehabilitation Project           Expand distribution network. Provide hydrogeological,                    12/86.
(Credit 1159; US$3.5 million    public health and urbanization studies.
equivalent)
7.  Seiyun Regional Water Supply     Increase supply of water to meet demand for the year 1995   11/83       Closed in
(Credit 1418; US$7.0 million    in Seiyun and 39 surrounding villages. Construct a new                    12/89.
equivalent)                      wellfield and provide water distribution networks. Provide
management assistance, training and water supply studies
for other major cities.
Following Operations
I .  Al-Mukalla Water Supply         Increase water production for Al-Mukalla to meet effective  07/88      Scheduled
(Credit 1994;US$12.0 million    demand for the year 2002. Strengthen and expand the                    to close
equivalent)                      existing primary and secondary distribution systems.                  12/95;
Enhance operational and management capacity of NWSA.                  [DO: U
IP: U]
2.  Tarim Water Supply               Increase the quantity and improve quality of potable water  06/90      Scheduled
(Credit 2170; US$12.0 million    to Tarim and adjacent villages. Improve operational and               to close
equivalent)                      management capacity of NWSA. Strengthen the audit                     12/97.
profession in the country.                                            [DO: U
I__ _ _ _ _ __   I_ _  IP: U]



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                         17
Approval
Loan/Credit Title                                  Purpose                            (mo./yr)       Status
3.  Proposed Taiz Water Supply and   Rehabilitate and reinforce the water supply system to Taiz.    Expected in
Sanitation                       Expand the sewerage system. Improve operational and     FY96.
management capacity of NWSA. Provide technical
assistance, studies and training
4.  Proposed Sana'a Water Supply     Follow up on recommendations to be made in proposed      Expected in
and Sanitation                   sector strategy and policy paper. Implement what will be  FY97.
identified as a first phase extension under proposed
development program for water supply and sanitation
Notes:
DO: Development Objectives Rating
IP: Implementation Performance Rating
U:  Unsatisfactory



18                                                                             Implementation Completion Report
Table 3: Project Timetable
.                     Date actual/latest
Steps in project cycle            Date planned          estimate
Identification                                   N/A                02/85
Preparation                                      N/A                  -
Pre-appraisal                                    N/A                  -
Appraisal")                                      06/85              07/85
Negotiations                                     11/85              11/85
Board Presentation                               10/86              10/86
Signing                                          12/86              03/87
Effectiveness                                    02/87              08/87
Project Completion                               12/92             04/96(2)
Loan Closing                                     12/93              10/94
Notes:
N/A: Not available
(I) Mission dates
(2) Latest estimate



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                       19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estinated and Actual
(USS millions)
|  FY87      FY88  |  FY89  T  FY90  [FY91              FY92  [FY93]   FY94             FY95]
Appraisal estimate        0.96       2.91       4.45      5.14       5.39       5.54      5.60"')
Actual                      -          -        0.48      0.83       2.14       3.02       5.32      5.97(2)    6.73()
Actual as percentage of
estimate                    0         0         11%        16%       40%        55%        95%       107%      120%
Date of final            March 17, 1995 (3)
disbursement
Note:
(1) Approved amount (October 1986) was SDR 5.30 million (US$5.60 million equivalent); credit was projected to be fully disbursed
December, 1992
(2) Total actual disbursed amount (as of March 1995) was SDR 4.87 million (US$6.73 million equivalent).
(3) Undisbursed amount (as of March 1995) was SDR 0.435 million (US$0.684 million equivalent).



20                                                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Commencement                          Completion
Project Components                           (month/year)                        (month/year)
SAR Estimate         Actual         SAR Estimate  T       Actual
Maior Activities
1.  Borehole Construction at Upper Tuban and        01/87             09/90              12/88             06/91
Bir Ahmed (Contract No. 1)
2.  Main civil and electro-mechanical works         04/88              11/90             12/91             06/94"')
(Contract No. 3A)
3.  Pipe manufacturing and delivery (Contract       01/88              08/92             06/90             07/93
No. 4A)
4.  Staff Training                                   01/87             10/88             12/90             06/94
Note:
(I) Includes an 8-month stoppage period related to the dispute over the faulty reservoir at Upper Tuban.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                    21
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Monitoring Operation
for former PWC
1987                1988                 1989                 1990                 1991                 1992       J         1993
SAR      A             R      Actual |SAR   ] Actual           Sar  J  Actual      SAR      Actual      SAR ]  Actual       SAR   I Actual
1. STAFFING
Number of Employees'        1,000     1.087      1,020     1.264     1.040      1,385     1,050      1,473     1,070     1,665      1,090      (*)       1,105      (*)
Staff per 1,000 Connections  11.7      13.4      11.5      14.7       11.3      14.3       11.1      14.3      10.9       15.2      10.7       (*)       10.5       (*)
Number of Staff Trained      100       N/A       110       N/A         90       N/A        50        N/A        40        N/A        60        N/A        70        N/A
11. SYSTEM
OPERATIONS
Water Sold, 104M1/year      23.31     21.67     24.02      22.58     25.09      25.50     25.98     27.76      26.81     28.50      27.93     31.90     29.10      32.70
Water Produced,             32.60     29.21     33.36      31.55     34.84      33.12     36.08     34.47      36.98     35.50      38.26     38.50     29.86      39.50
104M3/year
Unaccounted for Water,      28.5       25.8      28.0      28.4       28.0      27.4      28.0       25.0      27.5       26.0      27.0      25.0       27.0      25.0
Percent
Number of Service          85,560    81.015    88,550    86,280    91,740    96.970    94,890    102,960    98,040    109,449   101,590   113,928   105,290    118,426
Connections
III. MANAGEMENT AND
FINANCE
Operating Ratio, Percent'    76        83         82        84        80         88        80        105        78        125        78        130        74        97
Current Ratio'               1.3       1.4        1.3       1.5       1.1        2.0       0.9        1.7       1.2       1.7        1.2      N/A         1.5      N/A
Debt:Equity Ratio4          34:66     30:70     33:67      26:74     30:70     22:78      27:73     22:78      26:74     23:77     24:76      N/A       23:77      N/A
Self-financing Ratio,        9.0       N/A       12.0      N/A        12.0      N/A        15.6      N/A       25.0       N/A       12.3       N/A       22.7      N/A
Percent5
Notes:
N/A Data not available.
1.  At year end
2.  Total operating expenses including depreciation divided by total operating revenue times 100.
3.  Current assets divided by current liabilities



22                                                                                 Inplementation Completion Report
4. LTD/LTD + Equity
5. Percentage of capital investments financed by internally generated funds during a given year.
(*) Not applicable to PWC since the merger of PWC and NWSA.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                             23
Table 6B: Sector Performance Indicators*
19941             19951         19961       19971         1998
Employees/1000 water connections                                     11.00              11.24        11.43        11.62         11.40
Collection/billing (%)                                                75%                80%          80%          80%           80%
Outstanding Accounts Receivable (months)                             28.83              28.70        28.79       28.79          28.79
Water Sold/water reduced (%)                                          58%                60%          60%          60%           60%
*Estimates provided by NWSA



24                                                                                 Implementation Completion Report
Table 7A: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at
|Study                          Appraisal/Redefined            Status                         Impact of Study
1. Hydrogeological Studies     Creation and operation of a    Expatriate specialist left after 1   None
hydrogeological office         month of duty
2. Soils investigation at the  (This study was not included at   Completed                    Reservoir satisfactorily
faulty Upper Tuban Reservoir   appraisal).                                                   repaired and is operational.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                         25
Table 7B: Project's Physical Components
Financed under the Credit
Physical components listed in the SAR (October 1986)            ] Physical components completed under the Project
Contract No. 1: Constructing and equipping twenty boreholes in    Contract No. 1: Constructing and equipping twenty boreholes in
Upper Tuban, five boreholes at Bir Nasir and three boreholes at Bir  Upper Tuban, five boreholes at Bir Nasir and three boreholes at Bir
Ahmed, including the supply and installation of casings and screens.  Ahmed, including the supply and installation of casings and screens.
Contract No. 2: Supply of operational equipment including meters,  Contract No. 2: Supply of water meters, submersible pumps,
leak detectors, hydraulic and workshop tools, laboratory equipment,  vehicles, office equipment and hydrogeological instruments.
cranes, trucks and vehicles. Above items can be awarded separately.
Contract No. 3: Consulting services for hydrogeological studies and  Contract No. 3A: (this contract was originally called Contract No. 3)
leak detection and repairs.                                       Construction of the Upper Tuban wellfield including all civil and
electro-mechanical works. Construction of break-pressure tank (150
m3l. Construction of control compound area and transmission main to
Bir Nasir. Rehabilitation of Slaughter House pumping station. Design
of New Bir Ahmed wellfield.
Contract No. 4: Consulting services for construction supervision.  Contract No. 4:  Consulting services for construction supervision,
redesign of Upper Tuban reservoir and soils investigation at the faulty
reservoir.
Contract No. 4A: Supply of pipes and fittings.



26                                                                          Implementation Completion Report
Table 8A: Project Costs in Local Currency('"
(all values in current thousand currency units)
_      _    SAR Estimates   _                        Actual Cost
Local       Foreign       Total        Local        Foreign   |   Total
Project Components                    YR            YR     J    YR            YR     j    YR            YR
1. Wellfield in Upper Tuban          2.080        19.561       21.641        4.080        68.544       72.624
2. Wells at Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed  1.335        18.847       20.182        0.936        8.688        9.624
3. Wellfield Collector               0.652         6.086        6.738        6.720        55.644       62.364
4. Wellfield Equipment               1.615        16.642        18.257                   117.300       117.300
5. Transmission Pipeline             3.353        33.595       36.948        7.080        78.000       85.080
6. Primary Network                   9.097        72.779       81.876        7.260        91.656       98.916
7. Secondary Network                 6.520         3.229        9.749        6.696        78.036       84.732
8. Refurbishment Works               1.118        14.003       15.121          -          40.488       40.488
9. Technical Assistance:
Hydrogeological Studies           0.621        5.278         5.899                     0.540        0.540
Leak Detection and Repair         1.490        1.118        2.608                      1.788        1.788
Operational Equipment             0.031        2.329         2.360                     4.944        4.944
Staff Training                    1.118        1.490         2.608          -          1.308        1.308
10. Construction Supervision         1.149        7.793         8.942        5.522       63.264       68.786
Grand Total               30.180      202.750       232.929      38.294       610.200      648.494
Note: Includes cost of components not yet completed.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                27
Table 8B: Project Costs in Foreign Currency"'
(all values in current thousand currency units)
SAR Estimates (October 1986)(2)                Actual Coste3)
Local       Foreign       Total        Local   |  Foreign         Total
Project Components                    US$          USS          US$           US$          US$          US$
1. Wellfield in Upper Tuban          0.287        2.702         2.989        0.340        5.712        6.052
2. Wells at Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed  0.182         2.605        2.787        0.078        0.724        0.802
3. Wellfield Collector               0.092         0.840        0.932        0.560        4.637        5.197
4. Wellfield Equipment               2.225         2.301        2.526          -          9.775        9.775
5. Transmission Pipeline             0.465         4.643        5.107        0.590        6.500        7.090
6. Primary Network                    1.258       10.049        11.307       0.605        7.638        8.243
7. Secondary Network                 0.901         0.495        1.346        0.558        6.503        7.061
8. Refurbishment Works               0.157         1.932        2.089          -          3.374        3.374
9. Technical Assistance
Hydrogeological Studies'          0.086        0.728         0.814                     0.045        0.045
Leak Detection and Repair         0.207        0.155         0.362                     0.149        0.149
Operational Equipment             0.003        0.324         0.327                     0.412        0.412
Staff Training                    0.154        0.207         0.361          -          0.109        0.109
10. Construction Supervision         0.161         1.097        1.238        0.461        5.272        5.733
Grand Total               4.177        28.009       32.186        3.192        50.850       54.042
Notes:
(I) Includes cost of components not yet completed.
(2) US$ values for actual costs were converted at the official exchange rate of YR7.24 per US$ and YR2.498 per YD.
(3) US$ values for actual costs were converted at the official exchange rate of YR12 per US$.



28                                                                           Implementation Completion Report
Table 8C: Project Financing
(all values in current million currency units)
SAR Estimates (October 1986)                       Actual Coste"
Local     Foreign           Total           Local      Foreign           Total
costs      costs                            costs      costs
Project Components           US$       US$         US$        (%)        US$        US$         US$
1. Government               4.25         -        4.25        13.2       3.19       12.68      15.87      29.4
2. IDA                        -        5.60        5.60       17.4         -        6.73        6.73       12.5
3. DANIDA                              10.00      10.00       31.0                  24.40      24.40       45.1
4. Arab Fund &                -        12.35      12.35       38.4         -        7.04a)      7.04       13.0
Kuwait Fund
Total              4.25      27.95       32.20      100.0      3.19       50.85       54.04      100.0
otes:
(I) Estimates made since data were difficult to reconcile and incomplete.
(2) Kuwait Fund suspended disbursement of KD 2.24 million (US$7.8 million equivalent).
Table 8D: Credit Categories
(all values in current million currency units)
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
Loan Category            US$ Equivalent T      (%        |  US$ Equivalent T       (7)
1. Goods and vehicles        0.285              5.1             3.048             45.3
2. Supply & Installation     3.487             62.2              1.986             29.5
of equipment
3. Consultant services &     0.909             16.2             0.178              2.7
training
4. Consultant services for   0.528              9.4              1.516             22.5
construction supervision
5. Unallocated               0.390              7.1               0                 0
Total               5.600             100.0             6.728            100.0



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                29
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits
(all values in YR million at 1995 prices)
|aAnnual Capital | Annual O&M      Total         Total         Net
Year          Cost          Cost           Cost       _;Benefit       Benefit
1988              0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
1989            550.14           0.00        550.14          0.00       (550.14)
1990            306.50           0.00        306.50          0.00       (306.50)
1991            951.28           0.00        951.28          0.00       (951.28)
1992            445.09           0.00        445.09          0.00       (445.09)
1993            755.43           0.00        755.43          0.00       (755.43)
1994            111.24          93.59        204.83       1,000.15       795.33
1995             57.74          95.32         153.06       630.40        477.34
1996                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
1997                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
1998                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
1999                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2000                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2001                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2002                            95.32          95.32       630.40        535.08
2003                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2004                            95.32          95.32       630.40        535.08
2005                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2006                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2007                            95.32          95.32       630.40        535.08
2008                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2009                            95.32          95.32       630.40        535.08
2010                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2011                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2012                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2013                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2014                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2015                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2016                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2017                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2018                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
2019                            95.32         95.32        630.40        535.08
Incremental Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                          14%
Assumptions:
(1)  Distribution of annual capital cost follows the annual disbursement. Annual costs were deflated by following GDP deflator (see Table
9C).
(2) Taxes are excluded from capital costs and Standard Conversion Factor 0.86 through 1992 and 0.81 after 1992.
(3) Annual O&M cost estimated at 3 % of total capital investment.
(4) Benefit stream is due to incremental water supply from the project at a net of 8.4 Mm3 annually.
(5) Benefit for 1994 estimated at 75% since additional water was available for 3 quarters of the year.



30                                                                                    Implementation Completion Report
Table 9B: Economic Rate of Return at Various Vendor Prices
Venidor Price (
d(YR/Pri)                       Incremental Economic Rate of Retum (%)
40.00                                         5
50.00                                         7
60.00                                         10
70.00                                         12
80.00                                         14
Note:
1. The price of water purchased from vendors ranged between YR40 and YR80 per cubic meter delivered
to the user.
Table 9C: GDP Deflator Used
Year                                    GDP Deflator
1989                                         78
1990                                        100
1991                                        129
1992                                        179
1993                                        260
1994                                        520
1995                                        1100
Source: World Bank



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                                        31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement:                Project Agreement
Section:                  4.01
Covenant Class:            I
Status:                    NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant: Send Annual Accounts to IDA.
Comments:                  Complied with through 1992.
...............................................................................................................................
Agreement:                 Project Agreement
Section:                   4.02
Covenant Class:            2
Status:                    C
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant: Former PWC shall not incur any debt unless its estimated net revenues shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated
debt service requirements.
Comments:                  Since 1990, NWSA Aden Branch's (former PWC) debt service ratio has been declining. It is expected to
deteriorate further if additional tariff adjustments are not instituted.
....................................I...........................................................................................
Agreement:                 Project Agreement
Section:                   4.03(a)
Covenant Class:            2
Status:                    NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant: Maintain revenues to meet all expenses, debt service requirements, increase in working capital (excluding cash)
and annual capital expenditures equivalent to 9% in 1987 and 10% from 1988 onwards (revised under Credit
1944-YDR).
Comments:                  For compliance an overall tariff increase of 22%  should have been made during 1994 with a further increase of
31%  required in 1995. Government agreed to raise tariffs by 40%  in May 1995.
.....................................I ...............................................I ..............  .................
Agreement:                Project Agreement
Section:                  4.03(b)
Covenant Class:           2
Status:                    NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant: Send IDA financial projections for the following year..
Comments:                 Complied with through 1992.
Agreement:                 Project Agreement
Section:                  3.04
Covenant Class:            9
Status:                    NC
Original Fulfillment Date:
Revised Fulfillment Date:
Description of Covenant: Send IDA Quarterly Progress Reports.
Comments:                  Progress reports based on an agreed outline were never prepared.



32                                                                               Implementation Completion Report
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Note: There is no evidence of non-compliance.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(in Staffweeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                    |    Planned         Revised    [    Actual
Through appraisal                               N/A             N/A              9.9
Appraisal-Board                                 N/A             N/A             23.4
Board-Effectiveness                              9.0             9.0             8.3
Supervision                                     71.0            74.0            84.7
Completion                                       8.0            8.0             3.3(")
Total                                           88.0            91.0            129.6
Notes:
N/A      Not available
(1)      Actual to 2/28/95.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                           33
Table 13: Bank Missions
Rating
Staff
Month/    No. of    Days in      Impl.         Devt.        Special-
Mission          Year       staff     field       Status       Impact        ization      Types of problems
Through appraisal     Jan-85       2        118
Mission #1                                                                      SE/FA
Appraisal-Board       Jun-85       4         23
Appraisal Mission
Board-effectiveness    Nov-86      3         19           1            1        SE/FA/EC
Mission #1
Effectiveness-
Completion
SupervisionWl
Mission #1            Apr-87       2         15           1            1        SE/FA
Mission #2            Jul-87       2         12           1            1        SE/FA
Mission #3           Dec-87        1          6           1            1        SE
Mission #4           Aug-88        1         15           1            1        SE
Mission #5           Dec-88        2         15           1            1        SE/FA
Mission #6           May-89        2         12          2             1        SE/FA
Mission #7           Nov-89        1         7           2             1        SE
Mission #8           Aug-90        2         14           2            1        SE/FA          Ambivalence of
Mission #9            Jan-91       2         5           3             1        SE/FA          Kuwait and Arab
Mission #10(2)        Feb-91       2         4           3             1                       Fund participation;
weak inst. capacity;
deficient corporate
and proj. mgt.
Mission #11          May-91        3         12          3             1        2SE/FA
Mission #12          Jun-91        1         2            3            1        FA
Mission #13           Sep-91       2         3           3             1        SE/FA
Mission #14           Oct-91       1         2           3             1        FA             Rapid deterioration
Mission #15           Jan-92       1         4           3             1        SE             of NWSA Aden
Mission #16          Mar-92        2         5           4             2        FA/DC          Branch's financial
position.
Mission #17          Aug-92        1         5           4             2        FA
Mission #18           Oct-92       4         12          4             3        2SE/2FA
Mission #19          Nov-92        I          1          4             3        SE
Mission #20           Jan-93       3         14          4             3        2SE/FA
Mission #21           Jun-93       2         12          4             3        SE/FA
Mission #22          Aug-93        2         7           4             3        SE/FA
Mission #23           Jan-94       2         15          3             3        SE/FA
Mission #240"        Apr-94        2         13          3             3        SE/FA
Mission #25           Sep-94       2         14          U             U        SE/FA
Completion           Mar-95        3         20          U             U        SE/2FA
Mission #1
Notes:
(1) Mission covered supervision of other projects.                 U         =  Unsatisfactory
(2) Meeting in Paris to discuss critical project                   NR        =  Not reported/not rated
implementation issues.                                          SE        =  Sanitary Engineer
(3) Mission aborted because of outbreak of the war.                FA        =  Financial Analyst
DC/EC   =  Division Chief and Economnist



34                                                                                 Implementation Completion Report
Table 14: Financial Statements'
Income Statement for Former PWC
(all values in current YR '000)
1983    1984    1985      1986       1987      1988    1989      199(      1991
REVENUES
\VWa%r Sales                           2,391   2,641   3,118    3,596       4,160    4,460   5,127    5,343       5,327
Meter Rental & Maintenance                29      31      110      148        154       151      157      178       247
New connections                           65      68       51       53         61        62      70        86        95
Network Expansion                        358     260     270       210        444       240     307       343       296
Interest                                  23      30       32                                                             l
Other Revenues                             4       4        4       35         40        40       10        2        180
TOTAL REVENUES                  2,870   3,034   3,585    4,042        4,859    4,953   5.671    5,952       6,145
OPERATING COSTS
Purchase of Desalinated Water                                                   .                         216        129
Wages, Salaries & Benefits               949     882      911      967       1,036    1,122    1,416    2,714     4,050
Energy, Fuel & Chemicals                 694     678      716      788        878       915     761       965      1,029
Distribution & Maintenance               179     162      207      204        179       165      199      228       253
General & Administrative Expenses        183     233      257      213        324       291     501       343       377
Provision of Bad Debt                     13      1 1      14       15          19       19       11       15
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS           2,018   1,966   2,105    2,187        2.436    2,512   2,888    4,481       5,838
Income Before Depreciation                852   1,068   1,480    1,855        2,423    2,441   2,783      1,471       307
Depreciation                              334     446      440      723       1,043     1.098   1,277     1,201     1,305
Income Before Interest                    518     622   1,040    1,132        1,380    1,342   1,506        270     (998)
Interest                                                   ..        369        555      550      826       564       540
Income Before taxes                       518     622   1,040        763        825      793      679     (294)   (1,538)
Income tax                                440     528      884       649        701      674      577
NET INCOME                         78       94     156       114        124       119     102    (294)   (1,538)
iSource: NWSA, ADEN BrANCH)
Data for years beyond 1991 are not considered reliable and have not been shown.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                             35
Table 14: Financial Statements'
Balance Sheet for Former PWC
(all values in current YR '000)
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989     1990       1991
Gross Fixed Assets                      9884    12334    12430    19837    27115    33146    36484    36670            38137
Less Accumulated Depreciation           -5686    -6131    -6562    -7285    -8309    -9505   -10782   -11984    -13289
Net Fixed Assets in Operation           4198      6203      5868    12552    18806    23641    25702    24686          24848
Work in Progress                        7996    11024    15945    11826         9925      8337     7149      8490       8023
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS    12194    17227    21813    24378    28731    31978    32851    33176    32871
Inventories                              585       831       753      2094      2084      2064      2065     2415       2453
Accounts Receivable                       809      969       955      1507      1468      2224      3182     4290       5860
Other Receivables                        224       287       385       360       395       670       380       326       511
Less Provisions for Bad Debt             -104      -115      -126     -141      -160      -183      -183      -198      -198
Cash and Equivalents                    2301      2519      3447      3467      3586      3880     4406      4901       4578
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS            3815      4491      5414     7287      7373      8655      9850    11734       13204
TOTAL ASSET    16009    21718    27227    31665    36104    40633    42701    44910               46075
Capital                                  1296     1296      1296      1296      1296      1620      1715      1715      1715
Govemment Contribution                  8805    11771      14087    15926    18902    22357    24593    25275          26227
Reserves                                  535      535       535       535       535       542      1553      1500      150()
Retained Earnings (deficit)               194      288       444       623       821      1120      1124      903       -710
TOTAL EQUITY        10830    13890    16362    18380    21554    25539    28985    29393           28732
IDA CREDITS                             2789      4211      6056      6449      6824      6899     6590      6487       7300
Other Long Term Loans                     813     1502      2544      2279      2234      1983      1754      1726      1356
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT             3602     5713      8600      8728      9058      8882      8344      8213      8656
Customer Deposits                         185      219       253       275       302       363       435       535       712
Pension Fund                               31       47          0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Contractor Retention                      107      347         0         0         0         0         0         0            1
TOTAL NON-CURRENT             323       613       253      275       302       363       435       535       712
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                         1254     1502      2012      2865      3015      2806      1081      1989      2135
Current maturities                          0        0         0      1417      2175      3043     3856      4780       5840)
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES            1254      1502     2012      4282      5190      5849      4937      6769      7975
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES    16009    21718    27227    31665    36104    40633    42701    44901                 46075
'Source: NWSA, ADEN BRANCIH)
I Data for years beyond 1991 are not considered reliable and have not been shown.



36                                                      Implementation Completion Report



Implementation Completion Report                                                            37
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1739-YDR
Appendices
Appendix A             Project Implementation Report for Greater Aden Water Supply Project,
Second Stage
Appendix B             Map IBRD 19255R: General Layout of the Water Supply Network



38                                                           Implementation Completion Report
APPENDIX A



Implementation Completion Report                                    39
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
MINISTRY OF ELECTRICITY AND WATER
NATIONAL WATER AND SANITATION AUTHORITY
ADEN BRANCH
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FOR
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT, SECOND STAGE
Prepared by:
Kaid A. Al-Derweesh
Project Director
March 1995



40                                                       Implementation Completion Report



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1739-YDR
I.    Introduction
1.    Aden has characterizing by remarkable growth in population and socio-economical activities
since independence achieved on 30th November, 1967. This progress led to increase water demand,
and subsequently NWSA - Aden Branch (formerly PWC) raised water production from 17.07 million
m3 in year 1970 to 19.23 million m3 in year 1980 from the existing wellfields at that time including
Dar Saa'd (8 wells), Bir Ahmed (9 wells) and Bir Nasir (40 wells) Wellfields. Further increase of
production to meet such growing demand was limited by the following main constraints:
(i)   Deterioration in water quality and quantity of the aforesaid wellfields;
(ii)  Sea water intrusion for wellfields close to Aden Gulf (i.e.Dar Saa'd and Bir Ahmed
welifields;
(iii) Competition of water uses, particularly for irrigation;
(iv) Deterioration and limitation in production, storage and distribution facilities used for
water supply; and,
(v)  Other financial and administrative constraints.
2.    For evaluating the presented situation and providing the proper solution, the Branch signed in
1981 an agreement with Sogreah from Franish. This firm prepared a study including the following
documents by which established Greater Aden Water Supply Project as First Stage:
(i)  Master Plan for Aden up to year 2000;
(ii)  Hydrogeological exploration study for Abyan Delta;
(iii) Feasibility study;
(iv) Designs and drawings; and,
(v)  Tender documents.
3.    The outcomes of the study indicated that the demanded water quantity for provision of Aden
up to year 2000, is about 425 I/s and can be obtained form Al-Rowa basin in Upper Abyan Delta to
the northeast of Aden with a distance of 85 km, but later the findings of drilling proven that the
expected quantity of water couldn't be satisfied from such basin.



42                                                        Implementation Completion Report
4.    However, the Branch contracted again in (1984) with John Taylor & Sons, from U.K. who
carried out the study and submitted the final reports during 1985 by which recommended that the
eastern part of Upper Abyan Delta is the proper site for drilling 20 producing deeptube wells to yield
the needed quantity (i.e. 400 I/s) of water and accordingly amended the already prepared related
documents.
5.    As the result of different reasons, the preparation of studies and implementation of First Stage
was prolonged up to 1989, and several socio-economical developments has been occurred during said
period led to increase in water demand more than expected. It was found throughout that stage that,
the total water supply which could be yielded from all existing well fields including the production of
both new wellfield and Desalination Plant,is insufficient and could not cover the demand up to 1991.
Then, the Branch signed in 1984 other agreement with Sir MacDonald & Partners from U.K.to study
the situation and recommend the proper solution.
6.    This Consultant carried out the study and submitted the final reports at late 1987, including
the following documents for the Second Stage of the project:
(i)  New Updated Master Plan for Aden up to 2000;
(ii)  Exploration Study for Tuban Delta Basin;
(iii) Drawings and Designs; and,
(iv) Tender Documents.
7.    The main conclusion of this study was that Upper Tuban Delta is a potential wellfield for
drilling 20 boreholes for production of around 400 I/s which was foreseen to meet the demand of
Aden up to the year 2000. The study also recommended the drilling of 8 replacing deep wells, out of
which 5 wells at Bir Nasir Wellfield and the remaining 3 wells at Bir Ahmed Wellfield, but this
proposal was later amended to drilling of all 8 wells at Bir Ahmed Wellfield.
8.    For the implementation purposes, the study was bound the project's components of Stage-II,
into four packages /contracts nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 which have been amended after to contracts nos. 1,
2, 3A, 3C and 4A, according to the available funding.
9.    The Government of Yemen has obtained part of foreign funding from Danida (DKK 120
million as grant) , World Bank/IDA (SRD 5 million), Arab Fund (DK 2 million) and Kuwait Fund
(DK 2,25 million), and obliged itself to provide the required local funding. Additional funding of
DKK 26,4 million has been also granted from Danida to cover the deficit in the budget of Contract
3A. NWSA Aden Branch is the responsible authority for implementation of this Project.
10.   In November 1988, an agreement was signed between Aden Branch and DHV Consultants BV
from Netherlands for the supervision of construction of GAWSP (II - Stage). The funding of
Engineer's activities was originally allocated from IDA Credit (60 percent), Arab Fund Loan (20
percent), and Kuwait Fund Loan (20 percent), but as a result of Gulf War, specifically in 1991, this
funding plan was amended to 80 percent from IDA Credit and 20 percent from Arab Fund Loan.
11.   N&R Consult of Denmark has been appointed by Danida as Danida's Consultant, who would
assist in supervision of implementation of Contract 3A of Main Works and liaison between concerned



Implementation Completion Report                                                       43
parties. In 1993 the same Consultant was reappointed as representative of Danida to manage the
execution of works of Contract 3A. After the local army events the same consultant has been also
engaged for supervising the remaining works of Dandar which was representing about 3 percent,
instead of DHV.
II.    Project Objectives
12.   The objectives of the project, as stated in its documents, are as follows:
(i)  To increase water production for Greater Aden to the level required to meet peak
demands up to the year 2000;
(ii)  To complete the rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network;
(iii) To carry out hydrogeological studies on Wadi Tuban and Wadi Bana wellfields to
determine the safe yields of their aquifers;
(iv) To strengthen the management of water resources in the country, through provision of
technical assistance to the Branch for the establishment of hydrogeological office and
contracting with two experienced hydrogeologists for about three years to be stationed
in the Branch for assistance; and,
(v)  To lower down the unaccounted-for percentage, which was estimated about 26 percent
through the provision of leak detection instruments and carrying out the regular leak
detection and repair program.
1II.   Project Description
13.   The project originally consists of:
(i)   Drilling and equipping of twenty boreholes in Upper Tuban Delta, to extract an
annual average of 10.5 Mm3 of ground water, and five boreholes at Bir Nasir
and three at Bir Ahmed;
(ii)  Equipping the Upper Tuban Wellfield including the construction of one break
pressure tank of 150m3 (Figure,4), two 5,000 m3 steel reservoirs, the supply of
a 620 KVA generator, the supply of chlorinating equipment;
(iii) Construction of a 24/20-in. transmission pipeline, between the Upper Tuban
Wellfield and the existing facilities at Bir Nasir;
(iv) Reshaping of the primary distribution network including the installation of a 28-
in main between Sheikh Othrnan and Isthmus Pumping Station, a 16/24 -in
pipeline from Main Pass Reservoir to the Ma'alla District, a 2000-m3 elevated
tank in Mansoura and a 1,000-m3 elevated tank in Madinat Al-Sha'ab;



44                                                       Implementation Completion Report
(v)  The improvement and expansion of the distribution network in newly developed
areas;
(vi) Renovation of the existing system including the replacement of mechanical and
electrical equipment of three existing pumping stations (Slaughter House, Rock
House and Ras Ma'asheq), upgrading of the mechanical and electrical systems
of the Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed Wellfields, the replacement of a reservoir at
Ras Ma'asheq, one at Bir Fukum and another at Moat, and provision of
cathodic protection equipment for the steel tanks at Isthmus and in Little Aden;
(vii) Technical assistance to the Brach for the creation and operation of a
hydrogeological office, a leak detection and repair program, and construction
supervision;
(viii) The supply of operational equipment such as domestic and master water meters,
leak detectors, hydraulic and workshop tools, laboratory materials, cranes,
trucks, and vehicles for maintenance operations;
(ix) Staff Training; and,
(x)  Construction supervision.
IV.   Project Design and Organization
14.   The Project documents including groundwater exploration study, master plan, design,
drawings, and tender documents were prepared by Sir MacDonald and Partners Ltd, from UK, who
delivered final reports at late 1987. These documents are clear and sufficient for implementation and
evaluation of the project.
15.   Tender document of Contract No.4A for supply of pipes and fittings was reproduced from the
original tender document by DHV Consultants. Tender document of Contract No.3C for Network
Improvement-I was also reproduced from the same original documents by NWSA.
16.   Local Project Implementation Unit consists of local staff, was established at Aden Branch for
managing the implementation. The Branch supervises and assists such management. NWSA
Headquarters, in addition to other concerned Ministries, also follows-up and assists the management
of both the Branch and the project.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementaon
17.   The IDA Credit, AF Loan, and KF Loan, became effective on 20/8/1987,15/4/1986 and
22/9/1987 respectively, following authorization and ratification of the related loan agreements. The
project was commenced by signing the Agreement of Supervision in November 15, 1988, whereas the
contracts nos. 1, 3A and 4 for drilling of wells, main work and supply of pipes and fittings,
respectively, have been signed in May 1990, with two years delay. The Contract No.4 was



Implementation Completion Report                                                     45
cancelled in year 1990 due to the suspension of related foreign funding. In the following paragraphs,
the present status of the project:
Contract No.1
18.   The works of Contract No. 1 for drilling and development of 28 wells was actually
commenced in August 1990 and completed at the end of May 1991, as scheduled, without any
interruption of progress of works even at the outbreak of Gulf War.
Contract No.3A
19.   The works of Contact No.3A was scheduled to commence in August 1990 but actually
commenced at the beginning of November 1990 with delay of about 2 months due to the late handing
over the site of Control Compound Area which was cultivated by expensive crops and the agreement
with relevant farmers to remove the crops has taken some time. The progress of works of this
contract was interrupted since the beginning of April 1992 up to the end of the same year, as the
result of late supply of required pipes and fittings. The local events also caused the interruption of
this contract, but it was occurred at near the end of repairing and finishing works.
Contracts Nos. 4 and 4A
20.   Contract 4 was signed in May 1990 with Diamru from Japan for supply of ductile iron pipes
and fittings. It was cancelled in the same year due to the Gulf War. Some components of this
contract were rebound as Contract 4A for the supply of A/C pipes and fittings which was signed with
Finbe on October 31, 1991. It was scheduled that the first lot will be delivered during February
1992, but delayed to late July 1992 and not completely supplied. The delivery of the rest shipments
to the site was extended to the end of July 1993.
Components under tendering
21.   Some postponed components were bound to new package titled "Contract 3/C ; Network
Improvement-I, to be financed from Arab Fund Loan, composed of:
(i)  Ductile cast iron mains, Dia. 700 to 150 mm, length 15 km;
(ii)  Asbestos cement mains, Dia. 600 to 150 mm, length 22 km; and,
(iii) Two elevated steel tanks, one at Al-Mansoura (2000m3) and the other at Madinat Al-
Sha'ab (1000m3).
Postponed Components
22.   Some components related to improvement and extension of distribution network and
refurbishment of existing old pumping stations are postponed, due to lack of foreign funding, which
could be summarized as follows:
(i)  Improvement and extension of distribution network of Greater Aden, Little
Aden, Mansoura, Heswa, and transmission main from Al-Mansoura to Isthmus
Station;



46                                                        Implementation Completion Report
(ii) Refurbishment of old pumping stations including Bir Ahmed, Bir Nasir, Ras Ma'sheq,
and Rock House Pumping Stations;
(iii) Provision and installation of a reservoir at Ras Ma'sheq, Bir Fukum and Moat; and,
(iv) Installation and construction of new Bir Ahmed wellfield;
Contract of Consultancy Services
23.   The agreement of consultancy services was extended 3 times up to October 31, 1994. The
site supervision activities was subjected to interruption twice as a result of Gulf War during 1990 and
Local Army Events in 1994. The rates and manmonth inputs were increased to meet the requirements
of supervision for ongoing contracts. The manmonth inputs in Yemen increased from 150.5, as
estimated in the contract to 239.7 mm. The contracted total rates were raised according to inflation
factors, from NLG 2,363,840 and YR 1,874,340, plus NLG 43,570 and YR 535,730 as provisional
sum, to around NLG 4,200,648 and YR 1,704,170 up to the end of 1994. This cost is related to
construction supervision of Contracts Nos. 1, 3A and 4A. If construction supervision of Contract
No. 3/C and postponed components is considered, the total cost of the Engineer, in foreign exchange,
is estimated to become about $ 5.272 million.
Procurement
24.   Procurement of contract(s) or material have been made, according to the Procurement
Guidelines of relevant Financier/Cofinanciers.
Training
25.   From the proceeds of IDA Credit, an amount of US$ 207,000 was originally allocated for
necessary training. Only an amount of $ 108,600 was used for training, out of which an amount of $
65,624.3 was used for training of 6 trainees from the Branch in different aspects, and the remaining
amount $43,000 was used for training Projects' Operators. The disbursed amount for training
represents 53 percent of allocated budget, which means that the training was not carried out as
planned. This can be attributed to the following matters:
(i)  Instability of Branch Management due to change in positions as a result of
Unification arrangements; and,
(ii) Change in priorities and therefore, reallocation of the proceeds of the Credit
accordingly. For instance, the financing of urgently needed components, as like the
funding of supply of pipes and fittings (Contract 4A) to replace the cancelled pipes and
fittings which was proposed to be procured under Contract No. 4, but was cancelled as
a consequence of Gulf War, led to suspension of disbursement from Arab and Kuwait
Funds' Loans.
26.   On-site training for the members of the staff nominated for operation of the project was
performed by the Supervising Engineer twice, in years 1993 and 1994.
27.   It seems that, special training is actually required for Hydrogeologists in the area of
groundwater management and planning to establish monitoring system for the existing wellfields and



Implementation Completion Report                                                         47
related deepwells under operations to draw the suitable future plans for optimal abstraction, without
deterioration of groundwater quality and quantity.
Reporting
28.   The Engineer prepared regular monthly, quarterly and annually reports in English. These
reports presented information mainly for construction works, and distributed for all relevant parties
including WB. The Engineer prepared a completion report composed of 6 volumes for supervision of
implemented works.
29.   The Project Implementation Unit also prepared monthly, quarterly, mid-annually and annually
reports in Arabic for local use. The Unit prepared annual reports in English for years 1993 and
1994. The same Unit also prepared this Implementation Completion Report to be delivered for WB.
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
Objectives
30.   The project was successful in meeting its principal objective of providing 370 I/s from Upper
Tuban Wellfield, for safe potable water for Aden to satisfy the growing demand to year 2000 and
more likely beyond. This will lead to minimizing the over-pumping from existing Bir Nasir and Bir
Ahmed Wellfields which their groundwater quality was getting more deteriorated. The project also
put available an amount of 160 I/s from New Bir Ahmed Wellfield where 8 deep wells have been
drilled but not installed due to the shortage of foreign funding, but their submersible pumps and some
of pipes and fittings are procured from IDA Credit.
31.   The objectives related to improving, rehabilitation, and expansion the existing pumping
stations and distribution network, were partially achieved, but this can be more improved once the
Contract 3C would be completed which is in the stage of tendering.
32.   The remaining objectives regarding the increase of the operational performance of the Branch
and its capability for managing the operating wellfields is inadequately satisfied.
33.   Other objectives were met which have been not foreseen during the appraisal time, such as the
provision of water supply for Lahej Branch Costumers.
Physical Results
34.   As the project will provide water supply for Aden Governorate and Tuban District at Lahej
Governorate, it is expected that the physical achievements of the project as of December 31, 1994, is
greater than planned, but because there is no actual figures available at the time of preparing this
report, it is difficult to make comparison with SAR Estimates.
Project Costs
35.   The original total cost of the project estimated during the appraisal period (July 1985) is about
YR 386.232 million, equivalent to US$ 32.186 million, out of which YR 336.108 million equivalent



48                                                           Implementation Completion Report
to US$ 28.009 million in foreign currency. The total updated (capital) cost of the project as of
September 1994, is approximately YR 648,494,000 (equivalent to US$ 54,042,000), out of which an
amount of US$ 51 million is in foreign currency. The updated cost prepared on the basis of the
values of implemented contracts and offers submitted for components which were not executed due to
the lack of funds, with considering inflation factor in each year.
36.    The increase in cost, which represents about 84 percent, can be attributed to the following
reasons:
(i)  The Gulf war and recent local army events, which raised the local inflation factor;
(ii)  the shortage of foreign and local funds;
(iii) The local slow bureaucracy in processing of administrative matters;
(iv)  The change and shift of key stall of the Branch, as a result of the arrangement of
unification;
(v)  The delay in supply and subsequent delay in related works under implementation; and,
(vi)  Implementation of supplementary components which was not included in the original
cost, like as:
a) Compensations for farmers;
b) Preparation of stockyard;
c) Repair/furnishing of the Engineer's houses;
d) Linking overhead line 11 KV for control area;
e) Soil investigation and remedial design of leaky reservoir; and,
f) Claims as a result of wars.
37.    The above main reasons not only caused the increase of the cost of the project, but also
resulted the following consequences:
(i)  Interruption of progress of works and subsequently repeated change in the scope of
works;
(ii)  Prolongation of implementation schedule from 1990 up to 1994, compared to the
planned schedule in the appraisal report, from early 1987 to the end of 1991, plus one
year for maintenance;
(iii) Extension of Engineer Services lasted from 1998 through 1994;
(iv)  Additional cost of about YR 323,004,000 representing a percentage of 184 percent;
(v)  Claims of total amount of DKK 17,086,000 delivered from paid to Dandar, and other
claims for the Engineer; and,
(vi)  Additional grants from Danida (i.e., DKK 26.4 million).



Implementation Completion Report                                                      49
Impact of the Project
38.   The project had significant impact on Aden Governorate and Tuban District at adjacent Lahej
Governorate, since it has reinforced the existing wellfields by provision the population of about
431,600 Inhabitants, I/s with adding an amount of 370 l/s securing an adequate supply of safe
drinking water. The project also assisted to raise social and economic living conditions and had a
positive environmental impact through reducing the health hazards associated with inadequate water
for personal hygiene and potable water of poor quality. Housing development and the expansion of
conunercial activities had also been previously hampered by the unavailability of water. The projects'
internal rate of return was not calculated which can reflect the actual financial impact of the project.
The quantification of environmental and health benefits is also not possible.
Project Sustainability
39.   The performance of the Branch was affected by unification arrangements and local strife.
Some facilities was damages but repaired. The performance is now normal and getting improved.
The repair and renew is required for the old supply system of the Branch, otherwise will affect the
sustainability of the project, in the future. The project is now under normal operation.
IDA and Danida Performance
40.   IDA and Danida contributed effectively to the success of the project, since the appraisal time,
up to the completion of works of contracts nos. 1, 3A, and 4A within the period of 1990 to 1994.
Borrower Performance
41.   The performance of Borrower/Beneficiary was normal, up to year 1990, when some changes
induced as a result of unification measures, in management, procedures, and organizational structures.
The performance was influenced temporarily, but improved later until the outbreak of last local army
events, which affected again, but this effect was also temporary and the performance is now getting
enhanced gradually, by the assistance of Cofinanciers.
Performance of, Contractors, Suppliers and Consultants
Performance of Contractors
CSCEC
42.   CSCEC progressed their works regularly and smoothly without any interruption. The
maintenance period lasted one year and the Contractor accepted for extension of one year more
expired in October 1993. There is neither claims raised from this Contractor nor variation orders
taken place. The actual cost is less than the contracted cost, achieving saving in hard currency about
19 percent which was reallocated for other important components. The performance of CSCEC is
satisfactory.
Dandar
43.   Dandar delayed in completion of their works due to several reasons and submitted claims, but
in general, their technical performance is satisfactory, except for the problem of the reservoir which



50                                                         Implementation Completion Report
was found that Dandar is partially involved in such failure. The Contractor is not flexible in his
relation, particularly in legal matters and trying to use all his rights in the contract for claiming.
Performance of Supplier Finbe
44.   The supply of Finbe was not according to the contract specifications, and caused delay in
related works particularly of Dandar who submitted justifiable claim for such delay, therefore their
performance is absolutely unsatisfactory.
Performance of DHV Consultant BV
45.    DHV Consultants BV was subcontracted with VISITERV from Hungary to provide site staff
except the Resident Engineer. The supervision agreement was scheduled to last to the end of year
1991, but actually the implementation of Contract No. 3A of main works was extended to May 1994.
Therefore, the supervision agreement prolonged up to October 31, 1994 with reasonable increase in
tariffs.
46.    The performance of DHV is generally acceptable, although they were requested to replace
their project director and resident engineer. The scope of activities and required time have to be
made clear in the contract, otherwise, DHV would consider any minor activities as additional and will
bill for.
Project Relationship
47.   The working relationship and coordination between NWSA, Government officials, and
Cofinanciers involved in project implementation were fruitful and mutually supportive, particularly
during the last three years of the project.
48.   The communication and coordination with Kuwait Fund is still stopped since the outbreak of
Gulf Crisis in year 1990.
Project Documentation and Data
49.    The data provided in the project documents, Staff Appraisal Reports, Agreements, and
progress reports were adequate and useful as tools for monitoring project implementation. Those
documents coupled with Implementation Completion Reports are also useful for carrying out the
post-evaluation of the project.
Lessons Learned
50.   The principal lessons of experience gained from the project are in summary as:
(i)   Cofinancing and parallel financing is not always suitable, and participate in causing
delay in implementation;
(ii)  Project Implementation Unit has to be provided with necessary possibilities, support,
and enough space of authority to be effective, and can improve its performance to meet
the requirements of financiers;



Implementation Completion Report                                                                      51
(iii) Further training in water sector management is needed for field technical employees,
rather than the office management who considers the training as touring visit; and,
(iv)  Further improving operational and administrative efficiency is required for the Branch
particularly in the following aspects:
(a) The reduction of unaccounted-for water;
(b) Introducing computerization system for the main departments;
(c) Restructuring of the Branch; and,
(d) Reconsidering of water tariffs.
m:\yem\pal 30\pcr\april. icr



r



IBRD 19255F
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                    h          siesn , b.
GREATER ADEN SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT  0
GENERAL LAYOUT OF THE WATER SUPPLY NETWORK
0                    2          3          4
KILOMETERs
'Reh.b1ielion of
S htsle, Hos/.
CZrnponent Indi     /
mooted res plonn o /d.)2
7Xolh    \                                                        //                                                                                                                                                      D                                                            p
\   /   Pet,rleusn  m<r                                                                                                                                                                                   Khowna
T o   b e   C  np t\                                                                                                                                                                          a li\\
Constswded  Unrdo  P nqed
Fisnreced by Finrnoed by
Arob Fund  IDA & DANIDA Ee,Slng:   l\n                                                                                                                                              GA      E
PtpellnenD  oz( \GETE   DN                                                                                                                                            Cao           Q
-~ -  -                             BbNd(NdWOt(i{PBlended Wale Pae_n 
o                 Resesvoirs                                                                 .      
PumpIng Stat,ons
Q                   Well Field/s
Elted Water Tanks
Hlgh.,sys and Maja, CltV Roads                                                                   i\ I
lnowns                                                                          ;         I J   t                                                                                                                       d.nnnineiotwn- ond'" d
0   2         6        10                                                                                                                          Of   o nIh moo  f   * oc
bono do,   ,   ,   ,0  w_MAt 19.









it A; r' i! '    
X~1e, -:. r t   N  : i:             IL   E' I  , 
Ti I ;  .   - 'R_
I ,'F-    ~ N  ?..1;iR



