OFFICi% L
CREDIT NUMBER 1739 YDR
Development Credit Agreement
(Greater Aden Second Water Supply Project)
between
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     [    AKC/              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1739 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       VWc CA--    cQo       , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) in order to assist the Bot,rower in financing the Proj-
ect, the Borrower intends to contract (1) from the Danish Inter-
national Development Agency (DANIDA) a grant (the DANIDA Grant)
in an amount equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) on
the conditions set forth in an agreement (the DANIDA Grant Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and DANIDA, (2)
from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (the Arab
Fund) a loan (the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to two
million Kuwaiti Dinars (KD 2,000,000) on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the Arab Fund Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Arab Fund, and (3) from
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (the Kuwait Fund)
a loan (the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to two
million two hundred fifty thousand Kuwaiti Dinars (KD 2,250,000)
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Kuwait
Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Kuwait Fund;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Public Water
Corporation of the Borrower (PWC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to PWC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and PWC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,


﻿-2-
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02, Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and PWC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PWC pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the National
Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15, and July 15 commencing January 15, 1997, and ending
July 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on July 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of PWC, or such other
person or persons as the said General Manager shall designate in


﻿-4-
writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon, any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause PWC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
PWC therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken a12
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PWC to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
PWC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PWC, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, including terms pursuant to
which PWC shall be required to: (i) repay the equivalent in terms
of the Borrower's currency of the proceeds of the Credit so
relent (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit from the
Credit Account) over a period of 25 years, inclusive of a grace
period of 5 years; and (ii) pay interest on the principal amount
so relent and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the
rate of 9% per annum.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿-5-
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by PWC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
sp.-cifically undertakes to take all action required on its part
to enable PWC to comply with the provisions of Article IV of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) PWC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of the   Development Credit Agreement, an     extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
PWC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) Law No. 19 of 1970 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of PWC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PWC or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-6-
(e) PWC shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken
whereby any of the property of PWC shall or may be distributed
among its creditors.
(f) The DANIDA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1987, and the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund
Loan Agreements shall have failed to become effective by January
1, 1988, or such later dates as the Association may agree,
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower or PWC establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are
available from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
PWC under the Project Agreement.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or PWC to withdraw
the proceeds of any grant or loan made for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower or PWC establishes to the satis-
faction of the Association that: (A) such suspen-
sion, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower or PWC
to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower or PWC from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agree-
ment and of PWC under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of


﻿-7-
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions namely; that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and PWC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PWC, and is legally binding upon PWC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PWC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PWC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine o% the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall ter.4±nate or on
the date 25 years after the date of this A.reement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1193
Aden
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Cable address:                      Telex:
TAKHTEET                          2289 TAKHTEET AD
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC RFPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /,[ AbAcoL                 A-A4k-e
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Cy Lv    Re  on91 Vice President
Europe, Mid le East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHREDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods for Part A             270,000   )
of the Project                        )
(2) Works for Part A           3,300,000   )
of the Project                        )    100% of foreign
)    expenditures
(3) Consultants' ser-            860,000   )
vices and training                    )
for Parts A.2,                        )
A.3 and A.4 of                        )
the Project                           )
(4) Consultants'                 500,000        60% of foreign
services for                               expenditures
Construction
Supervision
(5) Unallocated                  370,000
TOTAL                5,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in carrying out:
(C* the second stage of a long-term wate,r supply master plan
designed to increase water production to meet the peak demand for
potable water in the metropolitan area of Aden through the year
2000; and (b) a program to improve the operations of PWC.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.   Construction of twenty boreholes in Upper Tuban Delta, five
boreholes at Bir Nasir and three boreholes at Bir Ahmed.
2.   The establishment of a hydrogeological office in PWC and the
carrying out of hydrogeological studies, including the provision
and utilization of equipment therefor.
3.   The execution of a leak detection program, including the
provision and utilization of equipment therefor.
4.   The provision of staff training to improve PWC's operations.
5.   Upgrading the operational capability of PWC through the
provision and utilization of operational equipment and materials,
including water meters, hydraulic and workshop tools, laboratory
materials, cranes and vehicles for maintenance operations.
Part B:
1.   Equipping the boreholes to be constructed under Part A.1 of
the Project.
2.   The construction of two 5,000-m3 steel reservoirs and the
provision and installation of a 620-KVA generator, chlorination
equipment, mechanical and electrical equipment and control and
communication system at the Upper Tuban wellfield.
3.   The  construction  of a   24/20-inch  transmission  pipeline
between the Upper Tuban wellfield and Bir Nasir.


﻿- 12 -
4.   Rehabilitation and expansion of the primary water distri-
bution network, including the provision and installation of a
2,000-m3 elevated tank in Mansura and a 1,000-m3 elevated tank in
Madinat Al Shaab.
5.   Carrying  out a program    of urgent   improvements  to  the
Slaughter House, Rock House and Ras Marshaq Pumping Stations,
the Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed wellfields and the Isthmus and Little
Aden steel tanks, including the provision and installation of a
reservoir at Ras Marshaq, Bir Fukum and Moat, and of mechanical
and electrical equipment and cathodic protection equipment.
6.   The improvement and expansion of the secondary distribution
network.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to SDR 375,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿-14 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when eithe- of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 15 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shal, be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


