                                     Documentof
                                 The WorldBank




                                                     ReportNo.: 32430




              PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                             RUSSIANFEDERATION

                      URBANTRANSPORT (LOAN 3885-RU)

                  BRIDGE REHABILITATION (LOAN 3990-RU)

                                    May 24,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Russian Ruble (Rb)

1991                      US$1.oo                  Rb 1.70
1992                                               Rb 4.15
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo
1993                                               Rb 12.47
1994                      US$l.OO                  Rb 22.04
1995                      US$1.oo                  Rb 6.90
1996                      US$1-00                  Rb 7.99
1997                                               Rb 8.04
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo
1998                                               Rb 29.08
1999                      US$1.oo                  Rb 37.06
2000                      US$l.oo                  Rb 36.69
2001                      US$1.oo                  Rb 37.88
2002                      US$l.oo                  Rb 40.41
2003                      US$l.oo                  Rb 32.50
2004                      US$l.oo                  Rb28.51

Abbreviationsand Acronyms

BMS              BridgeManagement System
CAE              Country Assistance Evaluation
CIS              Commonwealtho f IndependentStates
CUPTR            Center for UrbanPublic Transport Reform
ECMT             European Conference of Ministers o f Transport
ERR              Economic Rate ofReturn
FHD              Federal Highways Department
GORMOST          Moscow City Administration, BridgeDepartment
HRMP             Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
ICR              ImplementationCompletion Report
MoF              MinistryofFinance
MONSTR           BridgeManagement Systemofthe FHD
MOT              MinistryofTransport
OED              Operations EvaluationDepartment
PID              Project ImplementationDirectorate
PIU              Project ImplementationUnit
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
S A R            StaffAppraisal Report
UTCC             UrbanTransport Project CoordinationCouncil

FiscalYear

Government:               Jan 1-Dec 31.

Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation           : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department        : Mr.R.Kyle Peters
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group   : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr.Peter Freeman

                                                              I




   OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independenceinevaluation.


 Aboutthis Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess andto verify that the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results, and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assessesabout 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. In selectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;thosefor which
 ExecutiveDirectors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons.The projects,topics, and analytical approachesselectedfor assessment support larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


Aboutthe OED RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy:The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability:The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance:The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................     v

Key StaffResponsible                ........................................................................................................    v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................        ..
                                                                                                                                               vi1

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................       ix

1 Background
 .                       ..................................................................................................................     1

2 Overview and Objectives
 .                                             .............................................................................................    2

         Urban Transport Project ......................................................................................... 2
        Bridge Rehabilitation Project..................................................................................                         5
3 UrbanTransport Project(Loan 3885-RU)
 .                                                                            ................................................................  6
        Preparation and Implementation............................................................................                             -6
        Ratings .....................................................................................................................           7
4 BridgeRehabilitationProject(Loan 3990-RU)
 .                                                                                    ......................................................   14

        Preparation and Implementation ...........................................................................                             14
        Ratings ...................................................................................................................            15
5 ConclusionsandLessons
 .                                             ...........................................................................................     19

Annex A    .BasicDataSheet..............................................................................................                       23


Box 1:UrbanTransport Project: Objectives. Components and Costs................................
Boxes
Box 2: Bridge RehabilitationProject: Objectives. Components and Costs........................                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                5


Table 1:Allocation of Loan at Appraisal and on Amendment inJune 2000. US$ m........6
Tables

Table 2:Completion ofNew and Rehabilitated Passenger Vehicles under the Urban

Table 3: Cost Recovery o f Public Transport Companies inthe Client Cities (%) .............8
      Transport Project.........................................................................................................                8

Table 4:Number o f Bridges and Cost o f Civil Works (US$m) at Appraisal and
      Completion................................................................................................................               16


Map IBRD 33752                                                                                                                                31


This reportwas preparedbyPeterFreeman. who assessedthe projectinOctober 2004.The reportwas
editedby William Hurlbut. andRomaynePereiraprovidedadministrative support.


                                                         V



PrincipalRatings


Outcome                            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                        Likely                          Likely
Institutional Development             Modest                        Modest                           Modest
Impact
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory




BridgeRehabilitation(Loan 3990-RU)
                                       ICR*                     ICR Review*                          PPAR           -.
Outcome                            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                       Likely                           Likely
Institutional Development             Modest                        Modest                           Modest
Impact
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     Satisfactory

 The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The ICR Reviewis an intermediateOperations Evaluation Department(OED) productthat seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Project                         Task ManagedLeader               Division Chief/              Country Director
                                                                 Sector Director
 Appraisal                             Jane Holt                 Jonathan Brown              Russell Cheetham
 Completion                         Ben Eijbergen                   Eva Molnar              Kristalina Georgieva



Project                         Task ManagedLeader               Division Chief/            Country Director
                        - - ~                                   Sector Director
 Appraisal                         Cesar Queiroz                Jonathan Brown                 Yukon Huang
 Completion                        Ben Eijbergen                 Motoo Konishi             Kristalina Georgieva


                                              vii


 Preface

         This ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers two projects inthe
 Russian Federation. The first, the UrbanTransport Project (Loan CPL-38850), was
 approved for a loano f US$329 millionon May 16,1995, andthe second, the Bridge
 RehabilitationProject (Loan CPL-39900), was approved for a loan o f US$350 million on
 March 28, 1996.

        Bothprojects were adversely affected by the RussianFederation financial crisis o f
 1998-99. The UrbanTransportProjectoriginal total project amount was US$391
 million o fwhich US$308.7 millionwas expended. Six cities dropped out of the project
 because the dollar-denominated sub-loans became unaffordable after the rublewas
 devalued. However, the project was extendedby 20 months to carry out strategically
 important studies for national roads and the Russian Railways. The loan amount
 disbursed by the final project closing date o f August 31,2003, was US$247.6 million,
while US$81.4 millionwas canceled.

        The BridgeRehabilitationProjectwas also affected by the financial emergency.
The original total project amount was US$466.2 million, ofwhich only US$224.3 million
was expended. Several regions requested that their components be reduced and insome
cases canceled, since their revenue was largely ruble-based andthe project hadbecome
unaffordable for them. The original loan amount was US$350 million, but inJune 2000
the loan agreement was amended; US$l58 millionwas cancelled at this time, while
US$30million o f the remaining US$192 millionwas re-allocated to the City o f Moscow,
which was better able to cope with the crisis. A further US$37.3 million was cancelled on
April 4,2001 ,after committed contracts hadbeenseparatedfrom other components that
couldbe terminated. The project finally closed on August 31,2003,20 months later than
anticipated, with US$153.8 million of the loan disbursed. Uncertainty about which
elements could be supported inthe changed circumstances, and staffing capacity
constraints brought about by restructuringo fkey government departments, ledto the
implementation delays.

        OED prepared this report based on an examinationo f the relevant StaffAppraisal
Reports, ImplementationCompletionReports, legal agreements, project files and
archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers. Discussions
were also heldwith Bank staffinvolvedinthe projects. An OED field missionvisited the
Russian Federation inOctober 2004, conducted site visits, and attendedrelevant
presentations on urbantransport at the "Conference on ImplementingSustainable Travel
Policies inRussia" held inMoscow. The projects were discussed with government
officials (federal, oblast, and municipal) and with stakeholders. The missionappreciates
the courtesies and attention givenby these interlocutors as well as the support provided
bythe Bank's country office inMoscow.

        Following standard OED procedures, copies o f the draft PPARwas sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comments but none were
received.


                                              ix


 Summary

        This ProjectPerformance AssessmentReport (PPAR) covers two transport
projects for the Russian Federation, Urban Transport andBridgeRehabilitation. These
early RussianFederation transport projects were implementedduringa periodo f
significant political and economic instability and were adversely affected bythe financial
crisis o f 1998-99, leading to the cancellation o fvarious components. Despitethese
difficult circumstances, bothprojects yieldedmany positivebenefits and, inthe case o f
the Urban Transport project, begana progression towards sector reform that is still
continuing. The staff and officials linked with this project deserve acknowledgement for
their abilityto movethe project aheadinsuch away that the impetusofthis reform
would be sustained well beyond the end o f the loan.

        The Urban Transport project was intendedto arrest the deterioration o f urban
transport services inseveral medium-sized Russian cities and to assist the transition
towards a more market-driven environment inurbantransport. It was conceived to
addressbothproblems inthe supply o fpassenger transport vehicles and spareparts, as
well as the re-organizationandregulationo fpublic transport services at bothnational and
local level. Inparticular, the improvement inthe level o f cost recovery o fpublic transport
companies was given a highpriority.

        The Bridge Rehabilitation project was designedto improve the physical
condition o f selected highpriority bridges andto strengthen the technical capacity o f the
bridgedepartments. When the project was restructured after the crisis, the City o f
Moscow secured an increased share o fthe project budget.This reallocation infavor o f
the capitalcity was apragmatic decision, giventheir positive financial situation andthe
expected positive outcome. Itwas certainly a better option thancanceling the project
completely, which was the only other possible choice.

        Indeed, one important outcome was that Moscow was able to develop a world
class bridge management systemwhich i s likely to be extended to other Russianroad
authorities indue course, givenits evident success andthe interest such authorities have
shown inthe system.There is also some evidence that the sustainabilityof the federal and
regional road authorities has improved since the completiono f the earlier Highway and
Rehabilitation and Maintenance project, assessedby OED in2001.

       The outcome o fthe Urban Transport project is satisfactory. Although the
formulation o fthe project objectives was flawed, the expected outcomes were
nevertheless substantially achieved, and the goodprogress toward urbantransport reform
deserves recognition. The outcome o f the Bridge Rehabilitationproject i s also rated
satisfactory following a major restructuring due to the financial crisis. Institutional
development i s rated modest and sustainability likely inboth cases, while bothBank and
borrower performances are rated satisfactory for bothprojects.

       The assessment shows the difficulties o fimplementingprojects affected by a
major exogenous shock and a number o f lessons can be drawn from how typical
problems were addressed. Inneither the UrbanTransport nor the Bridge Rehabilitation

                                              X



project, for instance, were the objectives formally changed to meet the new situation after
the financial crisis. Inbothprojects the opportunity to modify the objectives was
presentedwhenthe restructuring proposals were approved, and inboth cases this was not
followed-up. Ifthe projects beenevaluated against the requirement (to be introducedin
the FY 2006) to the effect that changes inobjectives mustbe formally approved at Board
level, the rating for these projects would have beenlesspositive.

         Russiai s an enormous country andbothprojects hadvery widely-spread
operations. Future similarly dispersed projects inlarge countries needto give more
attention at project designstageto the adequacy o f supervisory budgetsand practical
guidance inhandlinglogisticalmanagement. Cities inthe urbantransport project were
also committed to undertake legal reforms which they didnot necessarily have the legal
power to carry out. Moreover, the Bank's standard advice to client governments not to
pass-on the foreign exchange risk o f dollar-denominated loans to sub-national entities,
whose revenue sources are limitedto domestic currency, was compromised. Insummary,
the primarylessons learned from these projects are that:

    P Theformulation of realistic and measurableproject objectives is crucial and
        when there is a major restructuring of aproject, the task team should take the
        opportunity to review the original objectives in the light of the changed
        circumstances.

    9 Banksupervision arrangements should be realisticandbudgetsshouldbehigher
        whenprojects are decentralized or spread over a wide area involving more than
        one implementing authority. Project design should take this into account.

    9 Covenantsshouldnot be imposed on authoritiesthatdonot have thelegalpower
        to carry out the commitment. Weakor open-ended conditionality should be
        avoided and objectives should not be conflicting.

    9 It is unwise to let localsub-nationalborrowers carryforeign exchangerisk in
        unstable macroeconomic conditions, especially when their revenues are in local
        currency.




                                                           Ajay Chhibber
                                                      Acting Director-General
                                                        Operations Evaluation

 1.      Background

 1.1     The RussianFederationjoined the Bank inJune 1992, soon after the dissolution of
the Soviet Union. Inthe periodthat followed, the Urban Transport andBridge
Rehabilitation projects were prepared andimplemented,but this was a time o f severe
recession and highinflation. According to the Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) o f
2002,' the Russianpeople were hesitant about the move to a market economy, unsureo f
what this would entail for their livelihoods, and concemed about the risks o f a possible
political backlash. Obstacles to, and targets of reform included state institutions designed
for command and control, an economic structure based on central planning,together with
production and distribution systems dominated by large state-owned enterprises and a
newlycreated, butpoorly functioning, financial system.

 1.2    The Russiantransitionprovedmore difficult thanhadbeen anticipated bythe
internationalcommunity. Successive stabilizationand adjustment programs were only
partially implementeddue to weak institutionalcapacity and insufficient political will.
Then, in 1998, amajor crisis occurred following extemal shocks compounded by
inadequate fiscal adjustment. Duringthe course o fthe year, the Russian.Federation
defaulted on its debt, the rublewas floated, depreciating by over 60 percent, and GDP
dropped bymore than 5 percent. The transport sector was seriously affected by these
events, which ledto a decline insector investmentat a time when road and bridge
infrastructure was already visibly deteriorating, andmore than halfo f the rail
infrastructure neededmodernization. Improvements inthe sector were considered critical
to a successful transition to a market economy.

1.3     Many roads and structures hadbeenneglected and there was a sizeable backlog o f
maintenance, due not only to decliningpublic expenditures, but also to a tendency to favor
new construction rather than the preservation of existingassets. Respondingto these
problems, the Bank supported two projects. The first, the Highway Rehabilitationand
Maintenance Project (HRMP - Loan 3706-RU), was approved in 1994 and completed in
1999. A Project Performance Assessment Report on the HRMP inNovember 20012found
that the outcome was moderately satisfactory, sustainabilitynon-evaluable andboth Bank
and borrowerperformance unsatisfactory. The second, the BridgeRehabilitationProject,
was approved in 1996, and was aimed at restoring selected high-priority bridges and
strengtheningthe organizationandpractice ofbridgemanagement. Itmade sense to
separatethis project from the ongoing highway project, becauseo f the specialist nature o f
large structures andthe needto focus on introducingbest practiceinbridgemanagement
systems.

1.4     Buses, trams, and trolleybuses hadmeanwhile become the leadingmode o f
passenger transport having overtaken the railways in 1996, measured interms o f



1.OED. 2002. CountryAssistance Evaluation.RussianFederation,World Bank.
2. OED. 2001, Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report,
No 23292. World Bank.

                                                     2


passengerkilometers tra~elled.~       Urbantransport was particularly significant. For most
people car ownership was unaffordable andwalking was often not an option becauseo f
the harsh winter climate and the lengthytravel distances. Long commuter trips were a
byproduct o f the landuse patterns favored by socialist city planners, which featured high-
rise apartments on the city perimeters far from employment centers.

 1.5     Against this background the UrbanTransport Projectwas conceived; the idea was
to preserve the essential urbantransport capacity in 14medium-sizedcities and to use the
project to kick-start a process of financial andpolicy reform inurbantransport throughout
the country. The largest conurbations ofMoscow and St. Petersburgwere specifically
excluded from the list o f beneficiary cities under the loan because they were both
considered to be ina comparatively privilegedposition, due to the significant economic
andpoliticalpower of their respective municipal governments.

 1.6     When the financial crisis overtook the country in 1998, both the UrbanTransport
andBridgeRehabilitationProjects were affected. Inthe former case six cities dropped out,
while inthe latter project, several regions asked for their loans to bereduced and
eventually cancelled, becausethey hadbecome unaffordable. Bothprojects were
nevertheless a turningpoint for the RussianFederation inthe performance inthe sector
andpresaged an important reform initiative, especially inurbantransport. This report
assessesbothprojects inthis context. Since it was not feasible for the PPAR missionto
visit all the project cities, two were selected for in-depthfieldtrips; these were the
universitycity ofVeliky Novgorod, one ofthe smaller cities inthe project, andthe
industrialcity o fNizhny Novgorod, which was the largest city participating at project
closure.



2.       Overview and Objectives

URBAN     TRANSPORTPROJECT

2.1      Inthe early 1990surbanpublic transport services inthe RussianFederationfaced a
major crisis following the demise o fthe Soviet Union, which initiated a protracted and
deep economic recession characterized by accelerating inflation andthe nation's balance
o fpayments experiencing severe pressure. The impact o f decentralization, coupledwith
this recession, meantthat the cities andsub-national govemments couldno longer depend
on subsidies, as inthe past, for transport service provision. Throughout Russia, bus and
trolleybus public transport enterprises experienced great difficulties incontinuingwith
their services without these subsidies. Cost recoverywas exceptionally low, fare evasion
was rife, and commuting became a miseryfor the majority o f the users, who could not
afford private transport and were captive to the public transport market. Buses were
known for their long lives (up to 11years), poor condition, excessive fuel consumption,
highemissions, and frequent breakdowns. Severe overcrowding (up to six persodsqmin



3. Russia. CountryProfile, 2004. The Economist Intelligence Unit,London.

                                                            3


 the peak4)was the norm and service frequency was unreliable. The maintenance o f rail
 and metro systems found inthe largest cities swallowed up a significant proportion o f the
 now much smaller subsidy pool.

 2.2      Consequently, little was left over for the bus-based networks found inmost o fthe
 medium-sized cities, which experienced the full impact o f the crisis. By the time the
 Urban Transport Project was appraised, the country's bus fleet was only 60 percent
 operational andthe vehicle and spare parts industries were indisarray. Dealingwith the
 dominant bus manufacturer from the Soviet era, Ikaruso f Hungary, now required foreign
 currency which was inscarce supply due to the heavy external debt inherited from the
 Soviet Union, and the domestic bus manufacturingindustrywas not ina position to fill the
 gap even ifthe funds for new vehicles were available. The project was conceived to jointly
 address the problems encountered on both the demand and supply sides; that is, the supply
 o fbuses and spare parts, andthe problems inthe organization and regulationo fpublic
 transport services, nationally and locally. The project objectives, components and costs are
 stated inBox 1:


Box 1:UrbanTransportProject:Objectives, Components and Costs

Objectives:
     Preserve essential urban transport capacity in the participating cities by linking financing of urgently needed
     replacementvehicles andspare partsto the implementationofreforms.
     Strengthen the participating cities' urban transport sector institutions so as to improve the efficiency of passenger
     transport operations.
     Arrest the decline of urban transport services throughout Russia through the provision o f urgently needed spare
    parts for transport vehicles.
     Providerestructuringadvice for the domestic bus industry.

Componentsand Costs (US$ m)

0   Purchaseofnewpublictransport vehicles (Appraisal 278.3;final247.3)
D   Vehicle rehabilitation (Appraisal 40.9;final44.8)
m   Publictransport relatedequipment(Appraisal 8.8;final8.6)
m   Gas-fueledbusespilotproject (Appraisal 1.5;final nil)
m   Technical assistanceandtraining (Appraisal 13.O;$nal8. I)
B   Sparepartsprogram(Appraisal Il.2;jnal Nil).




2.3       The formal statement o f objectives inthe LoanAgreement is unclear as
formulated. The first objective i s really two objectives, one having to do with the short-
term capacity to supply services, while the other refers to the pivotal long-term reform
process to increase cost recovery from fares. There are also two significant additional
project outcomes. These include the introduction o f internationalcompetitive biddingfor
the procurement o f new vehicles andvehicle rehabilitation(a major change inthe Russian
context), and a nationalreformprocess inurbanpassenger transport regulation.



4. Russia UrbanTransportProject, final report, 2002. Ministry o f Transport of the RussianFederation,
Moscow.

                                               4


2.4     The poor wording o fthe objectives also gave rise to other difficulties in
implementation. Some o fthe covenants were vague, while the idea o freformingurban
public transport services intheir entiretywas unrealistic within the scope o f a single
project. The project was, furthermore, designedinsuch a way that all covenanted reforms
were to be implementedbythe cities rather thanthe state. Having at least some ofthe
reforms implemented centrally would have allowed the Bank to become more closely
involved at supervision stage and would have easedthe load on the Project
ImplementationDirectorate (PID). The counter argument to this last point, however, put
forward independently bothby a task team member and some o fthe officials interviewed
inRussia, isthat thereformprocesswas better drivenatthe city level, becausethe
officials andpoliticians were more open to radicalchange. The assessment teambelieves,
nevertheless, that a compromise design could have beenconsidered.

2.5     TheBank's LoanAgreement was with the Ministryo fFinance (MoF) ofthe
Russian Federation. Eacho f the client cities then signed a dollar-denominated subsidiary
loan agreement with the MoF coveringboththe investment andreform aspects o f the
project. Subsidiary loan agreementswere guaranteed by the oblasts (regions), but the
cities were to take the foreign exchange risk. The terms included a surcharge o f 200 basis
points above the primaryBank loan interest rate, a 5-year grace period, and a 15-year
repayment period.

2.6     The objectives were not formally revisedby the Board, but four major changes to
the project design were made duringproject restructuring in2000:

        The entire National SpareParts Programwas canceled. The original intentionwas
        that the Government would on-lend to aprivatized distribution company which
        would makebulk purchases o fparts and then sell them to transport enterprises at
        an agreed mark-up, but neitherparty could reach agreement on an on-lending rate
        despite protracted negotiations. Inthe meantime, however, the commercial spare
        parts market had developed sufficiently to makethis arrangement superfluous. The
        Banktherefore agreedto the proposal to drop the program andto reallocatethe
        funds for additional new buses and vehicle rehabilitation.
        In1998 theRussianFederation experienced afinancial crisis that ledto a sharp
        decline inthe value o f the rublerelative to the U.S. dollar. The client cities could
        not meet their repayment obligations and by October 2000, six cities had dropped
        out o fthe project. As the picture became clearer, US$55 milliono fthe Bank loan
       was canceled in2000, a further US$22.6million in2001, andUS$2.6 million in
       2002, amountingto US$80.2millionintotal.
       Inthe lightofthis crisis, thepilot schemeto purchasebuses fueledbynaturalgas
       was also canceled. The results from market research, and from tenders received for
       gas-fueled buses ina similar Bank-financedproject inTurkmenistan, revealed that
        such a small batch o fbuses would have unit prices at least 40 percent higher than
       conventional diesel-powered buses. Inthe circumstances, all parties agreed that
       this experiment shouldbe abandoned.
       Finally, two new itemswere added to the technical assistancecomponent. They
       comprised studies o fpublic expenditure for the RussianRailways and for the
       nationalroadnetwork. These studies, together with the study on urbanpassenger

                                                           5


          transport reform, provided a coherent basis for the next stage inthe reform process
          o fthe Russian transport sector.

BRIDGEREHABILITATION               PROJECT

2.7       There are more than 4,600 bridgeson the federal roadnetwork (mostly constructed
inthe 1950sand 1960s), while a further 33,000 bridgesareto befoundontheregional
networks. While some o fthese structures were rehabilitatedas part o f various road
projects, there was a clear needto do something specific to reduce the backlog o f bridge
repairs that hadbuilt up throughout the country. Bridgemaintenance has beensporadic
andhas often suffered from poor materials andworkmanship. The contracting industry
historically has largely been a public-sector monopoly, lackingboth cutting-edge
technologicalknowledge andcost efficiency. In 1994, when the BridgeRehabilitation
Project was under preparation, only 9 percent o f federal bridgeswere found to be ingood
condition, 60 percent were rated as fair, 28 percent inpoor condition, andthe remaining 3
percent were ina state o f emergency.

2.8      Typical problems resultedfrom the poor quality o fconcrete used, poor
constructionmethods, and insufficientwaterproofing. These resultedinconcrete cracking,
water leakage, corrosion o f steel elements (often exacerbated by de-icing salt), and
eventually the failure o f the longitudinalbeamjoints. Timber bridgesoften found on
regional roads were inespecially bad condition, due to rotting o f the main structural
elements. Bridge closures on safety grounds were causing long detours and traffic
congestion on alternate routes, with negative impacts on the mobility o froad users and
ultimately on bothhouseholds and enterprises. The objectives, components and costs o f
the project are shown inBox 2:

Box 2: BridgeRehabilitationProject:Objectives, Components and Costs
Objectives
    Improve the physical condition of selected high priority bridges on the federal and regional road systems, and
    interchangeswithhightraffic levelson federalroads.
    Assist in the reform of the institutional structure of road administration and the contracting industry, especially
    regardingthe use of competitivebidding.
    Strengthenthe capacities ofthe FederalHighwaysDepartment(FHD) to managethe bridgesunder itsjurisdiction.
    Reduce the backlogof bridgerehabilitationand maintenance on regionalroads for up to five participatingentities,
    namely, Kirov, Leningrad, Novgorod,Tver, andVologdaOblasts and the CityofMoscow.
    Improvethe administrative,technical, and financialrelationshipofFHDandthe regionsofthe RussianFederation.
Componentsand Costs (US%m)
    Bridgeworks (Appraisal 354.4;final180.4)
    BridgeManagementEquipment(Appraisal 19.6;final8.7)
    Technicalassistance, design, supervisionofworks and training(Appraisal 31.3;final35.2)



2.9      The objectives ofthe HRMP were, incidentally, very similar to those above, except
for the institutionalobjectives, which were somewhat broader, addressing generic
financing and public expenditure issues for the road sector. While there were no formal
revisions to the BridgeRehabilitation Project objectives, there were implicationswhenthe
project was downsized following the financial crisis o f 1998. The borrower for the project
was the RussianFederation and subsidiary loan agreements were arranged with the
participating oblasts and with the City o f Moscow. However, the primaryLoanAgreement

                                                     6


 was amended inJune 2000, at which time the loan amount was reduced from US$350
 million to US$192 million and US$30 millionwas reallocatedto the Moscow component.
 Boththe federal and regional components were dropped. (See Table 1.)

 Table 1:Allocation of Loanat Appraisal and on Amendment inJune 2000, US$ m

 At Appraisal

 Component              Bridge Works         BMS           TechAsst.     Total
 FederalComponent          228.8              15.3           20.9       265.0
 RegionalComponent          25.3              4.3             5.4        35.0
 MoscowCity                 45.0               Nil            5.0        50.0
 Total                     299.1              19.6           31.3       350.0


 Reallocation at June, 2000
 Component             Bridge Works         BMS            TechAsst.    Total
 FederalComponent           83.8              1.3            14.9       100.0
 RegionalComponent          9.4               0.2             2.5        12.0
 MoscowCity                 65.0             4.0             11.0        80.0
Total                      158.2             5.5             28.4       192.0
 Source: ICR and World Bank Integrated Controller's Systems

2.10     Once the full extent o f committed amounts hadbeenestablished, it was possible to
cancel a further US$37.3 million on April 4,2001, finally reducing the loan to about
US$154 million.

3.       Urban Transport Project (Loan 3885-RU)

PREPARATIONAND IMPLEMENTATION

3.1      Because no prior sector knowledge hadbeengathered, the introductory sections o f
the S A R took the form o f an initial sector study and the task team undertook substantial
work infield diagnosis and strategy development. This team was also successful in
mobilizing external grant funding for the field work. The implementation arrangements
were apragmatic solution to managinga complex project. A Moscow-basedPID,
Transinvest, was appointed to act as an intermediarybetween the Ministryo fTransport
(MOT),the city authorities andthe Bank, while anUrbanTransport Project Coordinating
Council (UTCC) inthe MOTwas giventhe responsibility to oversee and coordinate the
policy aspects o f the project.

3.2      An important signal o fborrower commitment was the Government's progress in
pursuingpolicyreform objectives from an early stage. This was achievedbyusingan
innovative self-selection mechanism for the candidate cities. To be considered for
inclusioninthe project, cities hadto meet three criteria: (i)    localpublic transport operators
hadto be transformed into legally autonomous corporate entities; (ii)     they also had to have
achieved a 25 percent cost recovery target by the end o f July 1994; and (iii)   cities hadto
have set up transport departments to regulate and planurbantransport systems.

3.3     ByOctober 1998projectprogress was ratedunsatisfactory, althoughthe
development objectives were beingmet and the cost recovery targets exceeded. The most
direct impact o fthe financial crisis was that the cities were accumulating arrears insub-

                                                     7


loanpayments; the PID had continued making loan disbursements despite the fact that
these payments were indefault. More disturbing, however, was the fact that the PID and
the cities could not agree on the actual figures o f the amounts paid and owed. Inthe
ensuingdiscussions betweenthe Government and the Bank a tight timetable was agreed
for the MOTto restructure the PID, strengthen its financial management ability, amend the
sub-loan agreements, resolve the status o fnon-performing contracts, and propose a
strategy for continuing with the project.

3.4       Non-performing contracts were annulled, the most important o fwhich was the
contract for 230 trolleybuses. Although the PID hadwanted to award the contract to
Tolza, a local manufacturer and the lowest bidder, the Bank objected on the grounds that
the company was technically insolvent. The PPARmissionalso confirmedthat by the end
o fthe project only three cities managed to eliminate sub-loan arrears and continued to
makepayments. A t project closure the final disbursements were substantially lower than
estimated at appraisal with the main reasons beingthe cancellation o f the "National Spare
Parts" component, the withdrawal o f six cities from the project and the annulment o f the
trolleybus contract with Tolza. Nevertheless, the project objectives had largelybeen
accomplished by the time the exogenous financial crisis arrived, thus the outcome was still
generally positive.

RATINGS

Relevance

3.5      The relevance ofthe project objectives is ratedhigh. This rating is basedon their
relevance to the development priorities o f the Government, as well as their importance to
and consistency with the CAS, which was inpreparation at the time of appraisal'. The
CAS strongly supported the Government's intentionto move toward a market-orientated
economy, supported by an adequate institutionalinfrastructure. The project was also in
line with the transport sector strategy review of 1993. Russian Federationgovemment
strategy was to devolve responsibility for urbantransport to the municipal level, privatize
some public transport services, especially those o f small operators, drastically reduce
central government subsidies for urbantransport, and strengthen local bus manufacturing
capability.

Efficacy

3.6      Project efficacy i s rated substantial since overall the objectives were largely
achieved with only minor shortcomings. The original physical targets interms o f
quantities o f vehicles purchased or rehabilitated were achieved to the extent o f 81 percent
o f the original targets (see Table 2) and there were acceptable reasons for the shortfall.
First, the unitprices for the vehicles at appraisal were still subject to negotiation inrespect
ofthe most appropriate specification. The Bank eventually concurred with the view that a
higher thanminimumspecification should beused, since this would also allow the
Russianpassenger transport vehicle manufacturingindustryto begin to compete for sales

5. Discussed by the Board of Directors on June 6, 1995.

                                                                8


 inintemational markets. Second, the impact o fthe devaluationo fthe Russianruble was
 unforeseen.

 Table 2: CompletionofNew andRehabilitatedPassengerVehicles under the Urban
 TransportProject.
          Vehicle              Target Number               Actual               %
 New vehiclespurchased
 Buses                                1,500                 1,392               93
 Trolleybuses                          272                   38                 14
 Rehabilitated Vehicles
 Buses                                 997                   818                82
 Trolleybuses                          327                   254                78
 Tramways                              380                   328                86
 Overall
 (newhehabilitated)                   3,476                 2,830               81
 Source: ICR and transport authorities.

 3.7       The low figure inthe line item for new trolleybuses was due to the bankruptcy o f
 the lowest biddingmanufacturer, coinciding with the Russian Federation's own financial
 crisis, which led to the cancellation o f non-performing contracts, includingthe largest
 trolleybus contract. Ingeneral, the city authorities surveyed during the preparation o f the
 ICRwere, inthe view o fthe OED assessment team, justifiably satisfiedwith the progress
 made under the project and reported increases o f around 25 percent inpassenger usage
 between 1997 and 2000. Cities that had to leave the project following the crisis of 1998
 expressed regret at not being able to continue. This was verified by the PPARmission.

 3.8       The main objective on the policy side, to shift the onus o f financing public
 transport operations to passengers, was fully achieved, and agreed targets exceeded. Cost
 recovery (defined as fare revenue divided by direct operating costs) was to be raised to 35
 percent in 1995,40 percent in 1996,45 percent in 1997, and 50 percent by 199K6All but
 one o f the participating cities exceeded 50 percent by 1998 and by 2001, average cost
recovery had reached 78 percent.

 Table 3: CostRecovery ofPublicTransportCompaniesinthe Client Cities (%)
CitY                        Population        1995          1996        1997          1998           1999           2000         2001
                              (000)        Target 35      Target 40   Target 45    Target5 0       Target 55     Target 60     Target 65
Pakov                         204              92            98          110           110            105            102         105
Vologda                       303              14            74          102           111            107            105          99
Novgorod                      265              72            66           77           91             80             81           95
Smolensk                      352              33            49           65           69             72             62           84
Omsk                          1,159            45            56           59           65             82             97           83
Yekaterinburg                 1,420            45            61           68           70             62             73           82
Cherepovets                   318              77            93           86           78             87             82           74
Rostov-on-Don                1,020             Na            42           42           51             61             63           73
Nizhny Novgorod              1,368             16            26           29           30             47             62           71
Samara                       1,160             28            35           48           52             77             72           70
Kostroma                      281              42            42           59           65             70             75           69
Tver                          457              21            25          43            56             55             54           59
Saransk                       318              23            43           67           68             58             51           49

Average                      663              42            55           66            71             74            75           78
Source: Survey for Stakeholder workshop, 2002.
Notes: i) Only targetsto 1997were included in the loan agreement-theother targetswere advisory;ii) Bold type indicatestarget met.




6. The last target was not a part of the loan agreement.

                                                9


 3.9     The PPAR missionrequested the latest figures for Novgorod andNizhny
 Novgorod duringtheir visits to these cities and found that Novgorod's rate o f cost
 recovery in2004 showed a small surplus at 104percent. Nizhny Novgorod's cost
 recovery, on the other hand, had declined from 71 percent in2001 to 53 percent in2004.
 The reason for this was that over 1,200 small private operators were now incompetition
 with the establishedpublic transport operators. Theseprivate operators didnot have to
 carry passengerswho were exempt from paying fares, had questionable safety standards,
 andpreferrednot to operate late at night or very early inthe momingwhenridership was
 low. These issues are now being addressed inan attempt to "level the playing field."
 Novgorod, incontrast, i s the only one o f the participating cities that does not permit such
 private operators, on the perhaps spurious claim that its populationo f 265,000 i s too small
 to allow such competition.

 3.10    The reform o f the status o fpublic sector operators andtheir relationship with
 municipal authorities was achieved inall participating cities and indeedwas covenanted in
 the Loan Agreement. The cities transformed their public transport companies into legally
 independent corporate, publicly-owned entities, separatedurbanfrom intercity operations
 where necessary, and introducedservice contracts as instrumentsto regulate the new city-
 company relationships.

 3.11 A further outcome achieved was the improvement inthe operation, maintenance,
 andplanningactivities o f the client companies. This was consistent with achieving the
 objective relatedto improving the efficiency o f urban transport operations. The operators
benefitedfrom the various technical assistance activities, which included assistanceand
 advice with regardto organizationand management, the economics o f vehicle
rehabilitation and a competitive procurement approach to the purchase o f services and
spareparts. It i s not possible to measure the actual impact o f this assistance, other than to
report that inboth cities visitedby the PPARmission, the transport managers expressed
their satisfaction withthe initiativeandwere able to show that certainequipment
purchasedunder the loanwas still inuse andingood condition. Competitivebiddingfor
the procurement ofnew vehicles and vehicle rehabilitationinall participatingcities was
successhlly introduced. Modem specifications were developed and explicit bid evaluation
criteria introduced. The project also provided restructuringadvice for the domestic bus
industry, thus fulfilling the objective inthis regard. This advice comprisedmarket research
on boththe supply and demand side and the dissemination o f results. The activity was
completed inJuly 1998, leading to expressions of interest by foreign investors intwo
domestic manufacturers. However, this interest temporarily waned during the national
financial crisis that then occurred.

3.12    The arrest o f the decline inurbantransport services throughout Russia was a very
broad objective for a singleproject, but was nevertheless substantially achieved, albeit
fortuitously helpedby the impact o fmarket forces prevailing independentlyo f the project.
The objective was linked to the component to introduce a national spare parts program,
which was canceled because a private sector spare parts market had developed inthe
meantimeo fits ownaccord. There is also evidence, however, that the progress with the
introductionof cost recovery policies has beenemulated by several non-project cities,
while the Government has passedlegislationto phase out exempt fares, a course o f action
advocated by the Bank implementation team. Furthermore, there i s evidence o f

                                               10


 widespread increases inthe numbers o fpassengersbeingcarried. InNovgorod, for
 example, 153 millionpassengerswere carried in2003, compared with 99 million in 1995
 andthe comparative figures for Nizhny Novgorodare 512 millionin2003 and 366 million
 in1995. The preparation o fanationalurbanpassengertransport strategy andthe
 subsequent commencement of aregulatoryreformprocess have also helpedto turnaround
 the patterno f decline.

 3.13     The Ministryo f Transport's exemplary preparationo f a reform strategy helped
 achieve their reform implementationobjective. The Bank supported a further study o f over
 100Russian cities, gatheredthe latest international experience, evaluated regulatory
 options for the Russian Federation, and ultimately developed a nationalreform proposal
 for the urbanpassenger transport sector. This was done inaparticipatorymanner through
 a series o fworkshops involving national, regional, andmunicipal governments. Studies
 were also successfully completed for the development o f a reformprogram for the Russian
 Railways and national roads, focusing on public expenditure aspects. An unexpected
 outcome from the project, which encouraged a more commercial approach, was the rapid
 growth o fprivate operators insome cities. Rostov-on-Don ledthe way inshowing how
 bothpublic andprivate operators could be compelledto successfully cooperate to bring
 about better services for the passengers.


 Efficiency

 3.14    The efficiency o fthe project is ratedmodest. The financial analysis ofthe city
 governments andtheir public transport companies was done as well as could be expected
 inthe somewhat chaotic circumstances prevailingin 1994-95. An economic analysis was
carried out at appraisal o f the procurement and rehabilitationo f the fleet ineach o f the
participating cities and an average Economic Rate o f Return(ERR) o f 39 percent was
estimated. The input data, however, were generally weak andrested on numerous
assumptions due to the lack o fuseful informationsystems inthe various public transport
organizations. The ICR author didnot to have the resources to undertake an economic
analysis in 14 cities at completion and defended the decisionnot to pursue this issue on
the grounds that the effort was not worthwhile inthe absence o f good data inthe original
calculations. While the PPAR missionconcurs, it also points out that hadthe necessary
data capture been includedinthe project design, this would have been less o f a problem.
The methodology for evaluatingfleet replacement and expansion ofpublic transport
services i s very well developed, involving life cycle cost analysis and i s widely usedinthe
private sector, but assumes good data availability. Inthe circumstances, o f course, such
was the run-down nature o f the existing fleets that virtually any project inthis areawould
have had a good economic return, evenifmeasured imprecisely.

3.15    Contract prices for both buses andtrolleybuses were higher than estimated at
appraisal. The technical specifications were discussed at length duringproject preparation
andagainbeforebidding, since theborrowerwas keento produce specifications that
would meet European Union standards andthus encourage the Russianbus supply
industry to produce a vehicle that could also be exported. After protractednegotiations
and considerable time and effort invested by Bank staff andborrower officials, the
specifications that emerged were certainly not "excessive" andhave since been adopted in
other countries, notably India and China.

                                                 11


 3.16    The poverty analysis undertaken for the project was limitedto a statement about
 "there beinga system inplace to exempt poor travelers from paying for public transport."
 Ifananalysis wereto bedonetoday, itwouldno doubt consist ofanall-inclusive
 householdexpenditure analysis. The efficiency with which the strategy and policy reform
 studies were conducted onthe other hand, was very good and the Bank i s continuing to
 give strong support to the reform process to the present day. The recommendations have
 largely been acted upon and tangible results interms o f regulatorychange andthe
 implementationof practical guidelines have resulted.


 Outcome

 3.17    Taking all the above into consideration, the project outcome i s rated satisfactory
 which i s an improvement from moderately satisfactory inthe ICRreview, but consistent
 with the ICRrating. Inthe ICRReview, the downgradingwas based on the perceptiono f
 overly ambitious objectives with insufficient linkages to legal covenants, inadequate
 poverty analysis, and the fact that the covenanted reforms were to be implementedby the
 cities rather than the state. However, more thorough scrutinyby the PPARmission leads
to the conclusion that this assessmentwas harsh. Only the objective about arrestingthe
 decline inurbantransport services throughout Russia was found to be unrealistic and even
here significant progress was made. The fact that there were insufficient linkages to legal
covenants i s true, but this i s a technical point when the outcome o f the project was actually
successful. Similarly, it i s unfair to penalize the task team for its poverty analysis at a time
when it was not Bank practice to treat this issue as intensively as would bethe case today.
The implementationbythe cities was also entirely inline with the Russian Federation's
decentralization strategy.

3.18     The project exceeded its cost recovery target and largelyachieved its physical
targets. Privatizationo f small operators exceeded expectations and the technical assistance
begana process that is ongoing and has ledto the beginningo f a complete reform ofurban
transport throughout the Federation. The objectives inaggregate were substantially
achieved and the project was even extended for a year to expand the strategy study to
encompass 100 cities. This activity culminated ina series o fworkshops for city and
regional governments in2002 and has since ledto agreement by the Government to more
extensive reform, now beingrolled out.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

3.19     The institutionaldevelopment impact i s rated modest.At city level it i s difficult to
measure the project impact on institutional development, but officials andprofessionals
alike did have an opportunity to learn first hand about the latest developments in
intemationalpublic transport management, management information systems,
procurement practice, and regulation; US$4.4 millionwas expended on technical
assistance andtraining for the participatingcities. The PID also set up an Urban Transport
Training Center inits Moscow office, which was used to disseminate study results and
conducted specialized seminars.

                                                    12


 3.20     At national levelthe institutionalimpactwas morevisible. Thetraining activities
 andstudies (a furtherUS$4.0 million), created awillingnessinthe MOTto undertakefar-
 reaching regulatory and policy reform. The first step was for the MOTto set up a Center
 for Urban Public Transport Reform (CUPTR) as well as the distance learning center
 mentioned above, which was additionally financed by Trust Funds from the governments
 o f Ireland, Netherlands, and the UnitedKingdom. The Bank also documented the
 experiences andproposed strategy for urbantransport inthe RussianFederation' to be
 usedas aplatform for institutionalstrengtheningto follow andalso for learningbyother
 transition countries.


 Sustainability

 3.21     Sustainabilityi s rated as likely; by the end o f 2001significant progress hadbeen
 made, especially regardingfinancial sustainability. Cost recovery exceeded the agreed
 targets by considerable amounts (described more fully inparagraph 3.8 and Table 3).
 Investigations by the PPAR mission showed that since 2001, competitionby private
 operators and the large number o f state-decreedexempt fares, partially stalled cost
recovery, but there are two reasons for optimism that such hurdles are already
 disappearing. First, several cities are now taking steps to regulate operators, so that public
 and private services will complement each other. Routes are now subject to tender and
minimumservice conditions apply. Bothpublic andprivate operators, singlyor in
combination, have won such tenders. Second, legislation has now beenpassed to phase
out, except for the really needy, social (or "exempt") fare exclusions. Other positive
developments have beenvarious reforms inmunicipal authorities to provide a better basis
for financial stability as well as improvements inprocurement practices and general
transport management. Many cities have experimented on their own with public-sector
reform, deregulation andprivatizationwithout waiting for top-down action. The technical
ability to assure future operation andmaintenance i s largely inplace.

3.22      A stumblingblock remains lack of clarity on the role o fcentral government in
respect o f urbantransport strategy, since the powers with respect to urban transport have
beendevolvedto local level. InJune 2004 a report was prepared for the Bank on
advancing urbanpassenger transport reform.' It suggested a 1O-year, four-stage process to
evolve a country-wide urbantransport policy and get it implemented. InOctober 2004 a
conference was heldinMoscow, attendedby the PPAR mission, on "Implementing
sustainable urbantransport policies inRussia and other Commonwealtho f Independent
States (CIS)' countries." At this conference, supported by the EuropeanConference o f
Ministers o f Transport (ECMT), the UnitedNations Economic Commission for Europe,




7. Urban Transport in Europe and Central Asia Region: WorldBank Experience and Strategy.
Infrastructure and Energy Services Dept., Europe and Central Asia Region, World Bank, December, 2002.
8. Advancing Urban Passenger TransportReform in the Europe and Central Asia Region. Final Report.
Version 2.1, World Bank, June, 2004.
9. CIS was created in 1991and in 1993 agreed to create an Economic Union. It comprises all o fRussia and
many o f the former Soviet Republics.

                                                 13


 and the World Health Organization, endorsement was givento ideas on the way forward."
A momentum for reformhasbeencreated andwill likely continue as the Russian
Federation i s to chair the ECMT in2005 and wants to show progress with policy
 implementation; it i s also likelyto continue to receive considerable assistance from
 Europe, which would further enhance the likelihood o f sustainability. Inthe view o f the
PPAR assessmentmission, sustainability is likely, but progress toward strategic goals is
probably going to be piecemeal rather than uniform.


Bank Performance

 3.23    Bankperformance is rated satisfactory inthis, the first urbantransport missionin
the Russian Federation, with a new borrower facing enormous difficulties. The preparation
process took longer and was more comprehensive than usual. The Bank also assistedthe
borrower to secure Trust Funds for this activity through the governments o f the United
 States, the Netherlands, and the UnitedKingdom. Negotiations, moreover, hadto be
conducted with 14 separate cities. While there were some weaknesses inproject design,
especially the poorly written objectives, which did not fully align with the loan agreement,
the Bankteam deserves credit for encouraging and supporting the borrower inmaking a
major policy shift, which included a vigorous effort to ensure more cost recovery from
urban transport users and to implementmarket-based procurement. Excellent support was
also given to the borrower inthe writing o f the technical specifications and the evaluation
criteria for new vehicles.

Borrower Performance

3.24    Borrower performance i s also rated satisfactory. At the commencement o f
preparation the MOThad no experience o fworking with the Bank.However, it quickly set
up avigorous PID andbyventuringinto newterritory inboththe procurement process and
user charging. The UTCC worked less effectively inpractice, which created difficulties in
meaningfullyaddressingthe issues duringthe 1998 crisis. Inthe latter stages o ftheproject
the MOTaccelerated its performance andbecame very committed to the reformprocess, to
the extent that it expanded the focus o f reform beyond urbantransport to include highways
and railways.

3.25    Inthe earlystages ofimplementationthe PIDdidvery well insetting up awell-
managed procurement system, but initially tried to protect the interests o f domestic
suppliers, which led to aprotracted andultimately failed experience with trolleybus
purchases. Duringthe financial crisis the PID's financial management was also not what it
should have been, because it erroneously believed that sub-loan management was thejob
o f the MoF. Following this, the PID was reconstituted with a strong focus on financial
management and from that time performed creditably with the administration o f the
remainder o f the project.



10.Donchenko, VD, October 2004.Problems Achieving Sustainable Urban Transport in Russia.
Conference on Implementing Sustainable UrbanTravel Policies inRussia and Other CIS Countries.
Ministryo fTransport ofthe RussianFederation, Moscow.

                                                14


 4.      BridgeRehabilitation Project (Loan 3990-RU)

 PREPARATION AND IMPLEMENTATION

 4.1     Quality at entry of this project was highbecause o f learning from the prior roads
 project and an excellent amount o f specialized preparation work, including a transport
 sector review, which detailed the chain o f events leading from poor infrastructureand
 services to weaknesses ininstitutions andpolicies. A major effort had also been
 undertaken to carry out an extensive bridge condition survey and to estimate standard
 costs. Project design quality was also highandthe main Project ImplementationUnit
 (PIU), Dorinvest, was already tested following its experience under the HRMP. Five
 lessons hadbeenlearned from previous experiences inthe HRMP and other projects in
 Russia. These were:

 a       Identification o f a committed counterpart team with sufficient authority to move
         the project forward;
 a       Coordination among key interested parties on key issues;
 a      Early detailed attention to procurement and other implementation issues;
 a      Involvemento f local consultants and institutes with specific local knowledge; and
 a      Avoidance o f costly design changes duringconstruction by having an expert
        "vetting" systemprior to sendinginvitations for bids".

4.2     Theproject design compliedfully with the safeguard policiesinforce at the time.
As inpreparation, the supervision stagebenefitedfrom economies of scale inthat staff
involved inthe HRMP andthe preparation o f HRMP2 also helpedprepare and supervise
the BridgeRehabilitation Project. This meant that a good supply o fhighly qualifiedBank
experts was always available and contributedto the quality o f the support effort.

4.3     Lack o f counterpart funding was critical after the collapse o f the ruble. It affected
the regional component the most, because regionalrevenue was mainly derived from
domestic sources. As was the case o f the cities inthe UrbanTransport Project, the regions
had agreed to bear the dollar-denominated foreign exchange risk. Following the Russian
financial crisis a decisionwas made to cancel the significant unexpendedfederalhegional
component portion o f the project, reducing the scale o f total benefits expected. The
judgment that the Moscow component, however, hadahigherprobability o f success and
the decisionto continue with and enlarge this element was, inthe view o f the PPAR
mission, bold and insightful, given the scale o f the macro-crisis. For the final phase o f the
project the staffing level o f Bank missions was reduced, but quality technical expertise
was still provided, includinghigh-level technical support from the U.S. FederalHighway
Administration.




11. OED Project Performance Assessment ReportNo 23292, November 29,2001.

                                                 15


RATINGS

Relevance

4.4       The relevance of theproject is rated substantial. Itwas clearlyinline with the
country's development priorities towards a market economy, supported by adequate
physical and institutional infrastructure as articulated inboththe CAS and the transport
 sector strategy review. Following worldwide trends, the rail/road split for freight was
 starting to shift toward highways andthe performance o f the road systemwould therefore
be on the critical path to a successful transitionto a market economy. Bridges are the most
expensive andrisk-prone structures on the roadnetwork andmanywere ina particularly
vulnerable condition. A dedicated project on bridgeswas necessary becausethe larger
structures required specialized expertise, supported by a customizedmanagement system.
Failure or closure o f the larger bridges couldmean long deviations or alternative routes for
roadusers, seriously disruptingthe activities o fthe public ingeneral and directly affecting
the costs oftransport companies. The shift intheproject infavor o fthe City ofMoscow at
the time o frestructuring, however, partly movedthe locus o f beneficiaries away from the
neediest, since the Moscow administrationwas financially stronger than the oblasts, and
for this reason the rating i s given as substantial rather than high.

Efficacy

4.5       The efficacy o fthe project i s rated substantial interms o f achieving its de facto
administratively revisedobjectives and associated targets; (i.e. after the scope o f the
project was scaled-down following the 1998 financial crisis inRussia). When the
federalhegional component was dropped, Moscow became the mainfocus o fboth the
physical and institutionbuildingobjectives o f the project; even though at this point only
45 percent o f the original loan amount hadbeen expended by the federal and regional
agencies. Inall, 76 bridges and overpass rehabilitation works were completed, at a total
cost o f US$180million.

4.6      The BridgeManagement System (BMS)was the largest component o fthe
technical assistance portion o f the project andwas substantially achieved. This initially
involved the development o f a federally-based package o fprograms (MONSTR),
featuring a bridge inventory, structural design module, and an economic evaluation
module. When the federallregional part of the project was canceled, the work was
incomplete, although it has continuedon a low level usingown funds. Uponrestructuring
in2000, thework was continuedonthebridgenetwork for the CityofMoscow andfield
tested in2002. It i s now housed inthe BridgeDepartment (GORMOST) of the Moscow
City Administration. The PPARmissionvisited GORMOST and hadthe opportunity to
visit the new BMS unit and log into the system and runqueries about the Bank-financed
bridges inMoscow. The extent o f available informationwas impressive. The analytical
part o f the BMS embodies the latest internationalexperience and i s definitely at the
cutting edge o f knowledge on the subject.

4.7      The technical assistance objective to strengthenthe capacities o f the FHDto
manage the bridges under itsjurisdiction was partially achieved. Such technical assistance

                                                  16


 included design and supervision studies o fbridgeimprovements and a trainingprogram
 linkedto the HRMP. Some 500 staff from the federal andregionalroadagencies and
 about 50 from the City o f Moscow attended. The total exposure was estimated at 550 staff
weeks. The principles andpractice o f competitive biddingfor works, an initiative first
 introduced inthe HRMP, was sustained under the project, but the commitment to this
 approach by FHDwas not fully realizedbecause a number o f senior staff continued to
raise objections to the procedure. The final objective, the improvement o fthe
 administrative, technical, and financial relationship between the RussianFederal
Highways Agency andthe regions, was not achieved as the proposed RoadFinancing
 Study" didnot take place.

Efficiency

4.8      The efficiency o fthe project i s rated substantialdespite slightly higherunitcosts
at completion. The economic evaluation undertaken inthe S A R was particularly thorough
consideringthe challenge o f calculatingnet present value and economic rate o freturn
(ERR) for hundredsofbridges, from which some 300 were prioritizedandselected for
inclusioninthe project. Rates o f returnfell within the range o f 12 to 87 percent with an
average (weighted by investment costs) o f 28 percent. Following project completion, the
calculations were re-done for all 10bridges improvedunder the restructured Moscow
component, while a sample o f 10bridgesimproved under the federalhegional component
was also selected. However, as detailed inTable 4, the reality i s more complicated. Inthe
federal component only 21percent o fbridgeswere completed, while 70 percent o f
regional bridgeswere finished. Costs were slightly underestimated inMOSCOW'S         case, but
when the project was reconfiguredadditional funds were allocated.

Table 4:Number of Bridgesand Cost of CivilWorks (US$m) at Appraisaland
Completion
         Component              Number of Bridges         Cost of Civil Works
At Appraisal
Federal                             200-300                     317.2
Regional                               20                        35.1
Moscow City                            20                        62.4
Total                               240-340                     414.7
At Completion
Federal                                52                        79.6
Regional                               14                        13.3
Moscow City                            10                        87.5
Total                                  76                       180.4
Source: ICR andRoadAuthorities

4.9       For the Moscow bridges the average ERRwas 31 percent at appraisal and at
completion 29 percent. Since the traffic forecasts were much as predicted, the main reason
for the slightly lower ERR was higher constructioncosts. This varied considerably
between bridges, but typical problems related to accommodating traffic, delays causedby
third parties (such as utility companies), and unforeseen price rises inthe cost o f some
materials, such as polymer paint. The ERRSfor the sample o f federalhegionalbridges


12. Referredto inthe LoanAgreement, Schedule 5, clause 7.

                                                     17


 were on average 20 percent at appraisal and 23 percent at completion, with greater
 individual variations intraffic growth, while costs were much as expected. However, these
 structures were ingeneral small-scale and less complicated. Clearly the returnon
 investmentwas goodthroughout the project and well above the 12percent threshold.

 4.10    There was disagreement between the FHD andthe Bankregardingthe procedures
 for design, procurement and supervision used. The Bank favored design and supervision
 byindependentconsultants, selection ofthe bestrehabilitation strategy through economic
 evaluation, and contract award through a competitive approach. The FHDpreferredthe
 Soviet method, which was heavily oriented to engineeringcriteria indesign, fulfilling
 centrally set quotas andwith the work beingundertakenby state monopolies. They alleged
 that the cost was higher and it took longer usingthe Bank's approach. Much o f this debate
 took place under the HRMP, but spilledover into the bridgeproject. However, FHD's
 focus on costs misses the point that the difference inoutput i s substantial. Costs also need
 to beunpacked to ensure fair comparisons are beingmade. Although these
 misunderstandings were gradually resolved, the progress by the FHDwith implementation
 hadbeencomparatively slow and, consequently, fewer bridgeshadbeencompleted than
 expected when the financial crisis triggeredthe cancellation o f this part of the project.

 Outcome

 4.11 The outcome o fthe project i s rated satisfactory against its administratively revised
 objectives and associated outcome targets, since the original project scope was scaled-
down as a result o f an exogenous factor (the 1998 financial crisis) and the project
achievements met the efficiency and relevance criteria.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

4.12     The institutionaldevelopment impact is rated modest.The project clearly extended
the practice o f competitive biddingfor works and independent design and supervision that
had already beenintroducedbythe HRMP. The domestic consultant and contracting
industryalso benefited from the experience gained inthe project, especially the
introductiono fnew technologies for bridge works.

4.13     The full BridgeManagement System for the FHDusingthe MONSTRprogram
was curtailed becauseo f the financial crisis, but FHDhas continuedto use detailed bridge
condition assessments for selected bridges. The BMS for the City o f Moscow, on the other
hand, was fully developed and implementedandby August 2003 its use was mandatory
for bridge structures throughout the city. Although the impact i s not measurable, the
project made a further indirect contribution to enhancethe capacity o fbridgemanagement
inRussiathroughthevarious trainingprograms. These amounted to 550 staff-weeks,
compared to the estimate o f 200 at appraisal. The environmentalreview o f the project
duringpreparati~n'~enabledknowledgetransfer to local consultants o f environmentalbest
practice. On the downside, FHD coincidentally underwent a major reorganization after its


13. Katz A, 1995.Environmental Review of the Proposed Bridge Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
in Russia and Status of Environmental Aspects of the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project in
Russia. Prepared by Andrea Katz Associates inRural Development Inc for the World Bank.

                                                     18


portion o f the project was canceled. The PIUwas disbanded and several departments were
discontinued.


Sustainability

4.14      The overall assessment o f sustainability is likely. Withregard to the physical
works, the highquality o fbridgeworks and the materials usedgives reason to believe that
these benefits will be sustained for many years. Inthe City o fMoscow, the BMS and the
maintenance arrangements are very satisfactory, strongly supported politically, and are
highlylikely to continue.

4.15     Although the picture for the federal bridges looked at one time more questionable,
the new-style, leandepartment underthe MOThas improvedsupport systems and is
staffed with very capable people, (albeit different staff from those involved inthe project
itself). With regard to financial sustainability, the matter was pursuedunder the extension
o f the Urban Transport Project, which included a study, primarily on the public
expenditure aspects o f federal roads. The study findings have beenincorporated inthe
Russian Transport System ModernizationProgram14;this programhas been acceptedby
the Government inconcept, and is to be implemented inphases over the next few years to
ensurethat financial stability i s achieved.

Bank Performance

4.16     Bank performance overall was satisfactory. Preparation was particularly well
handled and due to the complexity o fthe BMS, the staffwas even able to use their
professional networks to secure additional expertise from the U.S. FederalHighway
Administration. A new economic approach for bridge evaluation was developed and
eventually built into the BMS packages. Design and supervision were also both
undertakenwith great thoroughness. The most testing periodwas when the financial
meltdown occurred. At this point the Bank steppedup its supervisory missions and
encouraged the continuance o f the Moscow component, but its efforts could not persuade
the FHDto comply with a numberof loan clauses, includingmaintaining an effective PIU,
andit was subsequentlydecided to cancel the component andrestructure the project. The
Bank made limitedprogress with encouraging FHDto accept the principles o f a market
orientated approach, but the concept was whole-heartedly endorsed by the City o f
Moscow. A letter from the Moscow administrationpraisedthe Bank for the high
efficiency o f competitive biddingprocedures. It went on to say that considerable savings
hadbeen gained as a result o f the biddingand this enabled two additional major bridges,
the Krimskyand the Krylatsky, to berehabilitated.




14 See, for example, Ministry o f Transport of the Russian Federation. 2002. Russia: Urban Transport
  ,
Project, Final Report, Moscow.

                                                 19


 Borrower Performance

 4.17    Borrower performance i s also rated satisfactoryonbalance, taking an average o f
 the varied levels ofperformance over time bythe differentparties. Duringpreparation and
 the first two years o f implementationup to the mid-term review, FHDhad good ownership
 o f the project, but following differences o f opinion inthe HRMP regardingthe best
 economic management approach to design, procurement and supervision, FHD's
 performance deteriorated. The PIUbecame more rigidregardingprofessional differences
 o f opinion and FHD senior management slowed implementationby taking a negative
 stance towards implementationand allowing the PIU to lose capacity through attrition. In
 fact, the PIUnot only lost most o f its qualified staff, but also suffered several changes o f
 Director. Following the devaluation o f the ruble, the demise o f the PIUand the non-
 compliance with financial covenants, FHD also failed to write a completionreport to
 evaluate the experience. Inthis difficult period, however, FHDwas drastically reorganized
 andnew management then movedinto the vacuum and compliedhllywith the Bank's
 requirements.Nevertheless, a year of implementationprogress was probably lost inthe
process prior to the cancellation o f the federayregional component.

 4.18    At the other extreme, the City ofMoscow, includingits PIU, performedinan
 exemplarymannerthroughout the entire project and a good partnership between the Bank
 and the PIUevent~ated'~.      This includedprocurement, training activities, planning, and
general administration. Audits were done on time and the findings o f the auditors
implemented.Therewere no financial difficulties.



5.       Conclusionsand Lessons

5.1      The two projects reviewedhere were implemented during aperiodof significant
political and economic instability andwere adversely affected by the financial crisis o f
 1998-99, leadingto the cancellation o f various components ineach case. They both
yielded positive benefits and, inthe case o f the Urban Transport Project, initiated a major
process o f reform that i s still unfolding. The staff and officials associated with this project
deserve credit for their ability to move the project forward so that the momentum o f
reformwould be sustained well beyondthe end o f the loan. Some more specific lessons
can also be drawn:

         Formulationof DevelopmentObjectives, Inneitherthe urbantransport nor the
bridge rehabilitation project were the objectives formally changed to meet the new
situation after the financial crisis. Inthe former case the spare parts component had
become redundant, six cities had dropped out and a major new trolleybus contract was
canceled, while muchmore emphasis was placedon sector-wide reform. The latter case in
tumplacedmore focus onthe Moscow component as opposedto the federalhegional
component. Inboth projects the opportunityto modify the objectives was presentedwhen
the restructuring proposals were sent for Board approval, and inboth cases this was not

15. See for example letter datedDecember2,2003 from Yu Roslyak, DeputyMayor, MoscowCity
Government.

                                              20


followed-up. Ifthe projects been evaluated against the requirement(to be introducedin
the 2006 financial year) to the effect that changes inobjectives must be formally approved
at Board level, the rating for these projects would have beenless positive.

5.2     Need to budget sufficient Bank staff resources for projects with dispersed
operations. Russia i s an enormous country and both projects had very widely-spread
operations. The urbantransport project operated across 14 widely dispersed cities up to
 1,500 miles apart, while the bridgeproject had operations scattered over an even wider
geographic area. Modest budgetsprevented the task teams from supervisingthe project in
situ. Thus the Bankwas forced to relyheavily on informationfrom the PIUS,which
sometimes meant that inadequate attention was given to important local needs or concerns.
The cities would have benefitedfrom more contact with Bank staff, while inthe bridge
project the Bank reliedtoo much on the PIUand did not recognize from the outset that the
regionalhighway authorities had some valid concerns that neededto be addressed. Future
similar dispersedprojects inlarge countries needto givemore attention at project design
stage to the adequacy o f supervisory budgets and practical guidance inhandling logistical
management.

5.3     Covenant inconsistencies in the legal agreement. Cities inthe urban transport
project were committed to undertake legal reforms which they didnot necessarily have the
legal power carry out. Moreover, insome cases the conditionality of the covenants was
either weak or open-ended. An example is: "Cities should take all the necessary measures
to support the provision o f transport services byprivate individuals or companies.. .." The
wording i s vague and cannot bemeasured. This condition i s also directly inconflict with
the imperativeto increase cost recovery for public sector passenger transport companies.

5.4     Foreign exchange risk. With the onset o f the Russian financial crisis several cities
inthe urbanproject andthe regionalandfederal components ofthebridge rehabilitation
project hadto leave the project. The Bank's standard advice to client governments i s not
to pass foreign exchange risk o f dollar-denominated loans to sub-national entities, whose
revenue sources are limitedto domestic currency. This principle was compromisedin
these projects on the insistence o f the RussianFederation Ministryo fFinance and
ultimately ledto largecomponents o f bothprojects beingcanceled.

5.5    The primarylessons learned from these projects are that:

    k Theformulation of realisticand measurableproject objectives is crucial and when
       there is a major restructuring of aproject, the task team should take the
       opportunity to review the original objectives in the light of the changed
       circumstances.

    k Banksupervision arrangements should be realistic and budgets should be higher
       whenprojects are decentralized or spread over a wide area involving more than
       one implementing authority. Project design should take this into account.

    k Covenantsshouldnot be imposed on authorities that do not have the legalpower
       to carry out the commitment. Weak or open-ended conditionality should be
       avoided and objectives should not be conflicting.

                                         21


P It is unwise to let local sub-national borrowers carryforeign exchange risk in
  unstable macroeconomic conditions, especially when their revenues are in local
  currency.


                                                        23


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

URBANTRANSPORT                 PROJECT         (LOAN    3885-RU)


                                           Appraisal              Actual or                  Actual as % of
                                            estimate           current estimate            appraisal estimate
Original commitment                          329.0                  247.6                        75.2%
Total project cost                           391.O                  308.7                        79.0%
Cancellation




                                                            Original                           Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                                                               05/13/1994
Board approval                                                                               0511611995
Signing                                                                                      10/06/1995
Effectiveness                                              09/30/1995                        03/28/1996
Closing date                                               06/30/2001                        12/31/2002




                                      N" Staff weeks                                          us$us$~ooo)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                                       660
Supervision
ICR                                                                                         1114
Total                                                                                       1774
Note: Trust Fund contribution to project preparationwas $391,730.00 and to project supervision $695,860.00 a total
of $1,087,590.00

                                                   24


Mission Data
                          Date     No. of        Speciality (e.g. 2             Performance rating
                      (month/year) persons  Economists, I FMS, efc.)    Implementation Development
                                                                                Progress Objective
Identification/       March 1992      4   TL - Sr. ODerations Officer
Preparation                               Water Specialist
                                          District Heating Institutions
                      June 1992       4   TL - Sr. Operations Officer
                                          UrbanTransport Planner
                                          Mike Buckel
                                          R McGarry

                      December        2   McGarry
                      1992                Municipal Finance Specialist
                      July 1993       5   TL - Sr. Operations Officer
                                          Transport Operations Spec.
                                          Transport Policy Spec.
                                          Municipal Finance Spec.
                                          Privatization Spec.
                      December        2   TL - Financial Analyst
                      1993                Environment Specialist
AppraisallNegotiation March 1994      2   TL - FinancialAnalyst
                                          Environment Specialist
                      May 1994       12   TL - FinancialAnalyst
                                          Transport Economist
                                          Transport Policy Specialist
                                          Environment Specialist
                                          Legal Counsel
                                          UPT Operations Specialist
                                          Procurement Specialist
                                          2 FinancialAnalysts
                                          3 Mechanical Engineers
                     October         2    TL - Financial Analyst
                     1994                 Transport Economist
                     December        1    TL - FinancialAnalyst
                     1995
Supervision          June 1996       2    TL - FinancialAnalyst
                                          Vehicle Rehab. Spec.
                     November        2    Transport Economist                s                   S
                     1996
                     May 1997        3    TL - Transport Economist           s                   s
                                          Infrastructure Specialist
                                          Environment Specialist
                     November        2    TL -Transport Economist            s
                     1997                 Infrastructure Specialist
                     February        2    TL -Transport Economist            s
                     1998                 Infrastructure Spec.
                     May 1998        3    TL - Transport Economist           s
                                          Infrastructure Specialist
                                          Procurement Specialist
                     November        2    TL -Transport Economist            S                   U
                     1998                 Procurement Specialist
                     March 1999      1    TL - Sr. Operations Officer
                     December        1    TL -Sr.  Operations Officer        U
                     1999
                     March 2000      2    TL - Sr. Operations Officer        s
                                          Procurement Specialist
                     July 2000       4    TL -Sr. Operations Officer         s
                                          Transport Specialist
                                          Urban Specialist
                                          Procurement Specialist
                     December        4    TL - Sr. Operations Officer        s                   s
                     2000                 Transport Specialist
                                          Urban Specialist

                                   25


           Date     No. of       Speciality (e.g. 2           Performance rating
       (month/year) persons Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
                                                              Prooress Obiective
                           ProcurementSpecialist
       June 2001       1   TL - Sr. OperationsOfficer      S                   S
       July 2001       2   Transport Economist
                           Urban Specialist
       February        2   TL - Sr. OperationsOfficer      S                   S
       2002                Transport Economist
       June 2002       3   TL -Sr. Operations Officer      S                   S
                           2 Transport Economists
       October         5   TL -Transport Economist         S                   S
       2002                Sr. Operations Officer
                           3 Transport Economists
ICR    February        1   Urban Transport Spec.
       2002
       Jun 2002        1   Urban Transport Spec.

                                               26


BRIDGEREHABILITATIONPROJECT(3990-RU)


                                             Appraisal          Actual or         Actual as % of
                                              estimate       current estimate   appraisal estimate
Original commitment                            350.0             153.86               44.0%
Total projectcost                             466.20             224.29              48.11%
Cancellation




                                                     Original                     Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                                   06/19/1995
Boardapproval                                                                   03/28/1996
Signing                                                                         05/22/1996
Effectiveness                                      07/21/1996                   08119/1996
Closing date                                       12/31/2001                   08/31/2003




                                                     ActuaWLatest Estimate
                                N" Staff weeks                               us$us$~ooo)
ldentificationlPreparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                         571.44
Supervision                                                                   899.04
Other
Total                                                                         1470.48

                                                   27


Mission Data
                        Date      No. of  Saecializations rearesented        Performance rating
                     (moitwyear) persons   '                          Implementation Development
                                                                      Progress Objective
Identification/        03/94        1    Highway engineeriTTL
Preparation
                       05/94        1    Highway EngineeriTTL
                                    1    Transport Economist
                                    1    ResearchAssistant
                       06/94        1    Highway EngineerRTL
                                    1    Bridge Engineer
                                    2    Transport Economist
                                    1    ResearchAssistant
                        11/94       1    Highway EngineerRTL
                                    1    Transport Economist
                                    2    Highway Engineer
                                    1    Bridge Engineer
                                    1    ResearchAssistant
                       03/95        1    Highway EngineeriTTL
                                    1    Procurement Specialist
                                    1    Transport Economist
                                    1    Bridge Engineer
                                    1    ResearchAssistant
                       05/95        1    Highway EngineeriTTL
                                    1    Transport Economist
AppraisallNegotiation  07/95        1    Highway EngineerRTL
                                    1    Bridge Engineer
                                    1    Transport Economist
                                    1    Procurement Engineer
                                    1    Environment Spec
                                    2    Counsel
                                    1    ResearchAssistant
                                    1    ECAVP representative
                        10195       1    Highway EngineerRTL
                                    1    Procurement Engineer
                                    1    Construction Engineer
                                    1    Transport Economist
                                    1    Research Assistant
                       11/95        1    Transport Economist
                                    1    Bridge Engineer
                        12/95       1    Transport Economist
Supervision            04/96        1    Highway EngineeriTTL            S
                                    1    Construction Engineer
                                    1    ResearchAssistant
                       06/96        1    Highway EngineeriTTL            S
                                    1    Research Assistant
                                    1    Procurement Expert
                                    1    Transport Economist
                                    1    Geological Engineer
                                    1    Bridge Engineer
                                    1    Construction Expert
                                    1    Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                       09/96        1    Highway EngineeriTTL            S                   S
                                    1    Bridge Engineer

                               28


   Date      No. of  Specializations.represented            Performance rating
(monthlyear) persons                                Implementation Development
                                                     Progress Objective
                1   Procurement Expert
                1   Economist
                1   Construction Expert
                1   EnvironmentSpecialist
                1   ResearchAssistant
  02/97         1   Highway EngineeriTTL                                   S
                1   Bridge Engineer
                1   Procurement Specialist
                1   ResearchAssistant
                1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
  06/97         1   Highway EngineeriTTL                                   S
                1   Procurement Specialist
                2   Transport Economist
                1   Bridge Engineer
                1   Construction Engineer
                1   Geological Specialist
                1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                1   Research Assistant
  09/97         1   Highway EngineeriTTL                                   S
                1   Bridge Engineer
                1   Geological Engineer
                1   Construction Engineer
                1   Procurement Specialist
                1   Transport Economist
                1   Org & Management Specialist
                1   Construction Industry Specialist
                1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                1   Research Assistant
  o m a         1   Highway EngineeriTTL                                   S
                1   Bridge Engineer
                1   Geological Specialist
                1   Procurement Specialist
                1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                1   Research Assistant
  0619a         1   Highway EngineerlTTL
                1   Bridge Engineer
                1   Construction Engineer
                1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                1   Sector Manager
  11/98         1   Highway EngineeriTTL
                1   Bridge Engineer
                1   Construction Engineer
                1   Environment Specialist
                1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                1   Road Safety Specialist
                1   Research Assistant
  03/99         1   Highway EngineermTL                                    U
                1   Bridge Engineer
               1    Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
               1    Procurement Specialist
               1    Environment Specialist
                1   Research Assistant

                                       29


          Date       No, of  Specializations represented         Performance rating
       (month/year) persons                              ImplementationDevelopment
                                                          Progress Objective
          07/99        1    Highway EngineerRTL             U                   U
                       1    Bridge Engineer
                       1    Procurement Specialist
                       1    Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                       1    Counsel
                       1    Transport Specialist
         09/99         1    Highway EngineerRTL             U                   U
                       1    Bridge Engineer
                       1    ProcurementSpecialist
                       1    EnvironmentSpecialist
                       1   Transport Specialist
                       1    Highway Engineer
          12/99        1    Highway EngineerRTL             U                   U
                       1    Bridge Engineer
                       1    Procurement Specialist
                       1    Environment Specialist
                       1    Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                       1    Financial Specialist
         09/00         1   Highway EngineermTL              S                   S
                       1   Bridge EngineermTL
                       1   ProcurementSpeciallst
                       1   Financial Specialist (RM)
                       1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                       1   Sector Manager
         12/00         1   Operations SpecialistrrTL
                       1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                       1   Highway Engineer
         02/01         1   Highway Engineer                 S                   S
         07/01        1    Bridge Engineer                  S                  S
         02/02        1    Highway Engineer                 S                  S
                      1    Procurement Specialist (RM)
         06/02        1    Operations SpecialistrrTL        S                  S
                      1    Transport Economist
                      1    Bridge Engineer
         11/02        1    Bridge Engineer                  S                  S
                      1    Sr. Operations Officer
         03/03        1    Bridge Engineer                  S                  S
                      1    Sr. Transport Specialist
ICR     0212002       1    Transport Specialist
        0612002       1    Transport Specialist
        0712003       1    Bridge Engineer


