Report No. PIC979
Project Name              Russian Federation-Bridge Rehabilitation Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Transportation
Project ID                RUPA35764
Borrower                  Government of  the Russian Federation
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Transport
Federal Highway Department
Project Implementation Unit
Moscow
Contact: Mr. Anatoly Nasonov
Director General, FHD/MOT
Date This PID Prepared         June 12, 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared      June 23, 1994
Appraisal Date                 June 1995
Board Date                     March 28, 1996
Signature Date                 May 22, 1996
Country and Sector Background
1.   The Bank carried out a transport sector strategy review in 1993.
One of the strategies recommended relates to the allocation of funds to
high priority investments within the transport sector. Given current
economic conditions and trends, the preservation of existing transport
capabilities is considered to be the highest priority. More
specifically, road and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance has a high
priority due to the insufficiency of such works during the recent past
as a result of inadequate funding. The anticipated sharp increases in
road traffic in the years just ahead strengthen the case for this
emphasis even though there is a lack of funds for railways, ports,
airlines and other forms of transport. Through the strengthening of the
federal road system, a more rational and economically efficient
transport system will be developed. In view of the poor condition of
many bridges on the federal road network and the projected increase in
traffic volumes and axle loads, a program of bridge rehabilitation and
reconstruction should be undertaken over the next ten years.
2.   A second important strategic consideration in the sector concerns
the need to develop a market-based competitive contracting industry and
the related need for changes in Governmental institutions that deal with
the evolving industry. While a beginning has been made in this regard
through the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (HRMP, Loan
3706 RU), the tasks are formidable and undoubtedly major efforts will be
required over a period of years to obtain significant results. During
this transition period, the Bank intends to provide substantial



technical assistance and training to facilitate the important changes.
The efforts begun under HRMP will continue under the proposed project.
3.   The federal road system has appropriately received priority
attention in the Bank's strategy for strengthening the transport system
of Russia; these roads are the most vital road links in the country.
Under the Bank's first project in the sector, a relatively small amount
of funds is also available for rehabilitation and maintenance of some
regional roads through a program of assistance from the Federal Highway
Department (FHD). Since the regions now have a considerable degree of
autonomy and responsibility for roads under the new decentralized system
of Government, it seems timely that under the proposed project the Bank
provide assistance to up to five regions on a pilot basis. The
inclusion of a region in the project would involve on-lending from the
federal Government to the regional Government. Factors under
consideration in selecting a region include: (i) the physical condition
of the roads and bridges; (ii) economic importance of the region; (iii)
relatively high road traffic levels by regional standards; (iv)
commitment to reform of road administration and a separation of
administrative functions and the execution of works; (v) commitment to
development of the private contracting industry; (vi) the number and
nature of other Bank-financed projects in the region; and (vii)
financial condition of the region and willingness to borrow for the
project and bear the foreign exchange risk.
4.   Numerous major bridges on the federal road system are in poor or
emergency condition and consequently are in need of reconstruction,
rehabilitation or repair. Many of them were built in the 1950s and
1960s and the quality of construction was generally poor. Others are
reaching the end of their design lives. A considerable proportion of
the bridges are narrower than the roads linked to them and some may
warrant widening to facilitate the flow of traffic and reduce safety
hazards; however, the highest priority need is to repair and
rehabilitate bridges in poor condition and prevent the further
deterioration of bridges in fair condition. Load restrictions on
bridges where there is danger of collapse would require, in many cases,
the diversion of heavy traffic to lengthy, and thus costly, alternative
routes because of the sparse road network in Russia. Major bridge works
were not included in the HRMP which emphasized rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads. Bridges on regional roads are generally as much
in need of remedial works as bridges on federal roads.
Project Objectives
5.   The project would contribute to the preservation of the Russian
road network through a program of bridge rehabilitation, replacement and
maintenance. The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:
(i) improve the condition of selected high priority bridges on the
federal and regional road systems and of a few interchanges with high
traffic levels on federal highways; (ii) assist in reform of the
institutional structure of road administration and the contracting
industry, and further the use of competitive bidding; (iii) strengthen
the capabilities of the FHD to manage the bridges under its
jurisdiction; (iv) reduce a backlog of bridge rehabilitation and
maintenance on regional roads for up to five participating regions,
- 2-



namely Kirov, Leningrad, Novgorod, Tver and Vologda Oblasts and Moscow
City; and (v) improve the administrative, technical, and financial
relationships of FHD and the regions of the Russian Federation.
Project Description
6.   A Bridge Rehabilitation Loan of $350 million will help finance a
four year program of urgently needed bridge works on federal roads, to
be procured under international competitive bidding. The loan may also
finance regional bridge rehabilitation and maintenance works in selected
regions. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$466 million
equivalent, including a government contribution of US$116 million. The
main components of the project (and estimated costs) are: (i) Bridge
Works on Federal and Regional Roads (US$415 million); (ii) Bridge
Management Equipment (US$19.6 million); and (iii) Design of Works, Works
Supervision, Technical Assistance and Training (US$31.4 million). The
main components of the project are:
a)   Bridge Works.   The project will finance rehabilitation,
repair, reconstruction, replacement, and widening of about
200-300 high priority federal and regional bridges and the
improvement of 2-3 interchanges on the federal highways
including grade separation. Only if found to be among the
highest priority projects, would interchange improvements be
included in the project.
b)   Bridge Management Equipment.   This component will finance
vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies as an aid for
better management of bridges.
c)   Technical Assistance, Design and Supervision of Works and
Training. This would include assistance to the Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) and FHD, design of bridge works
and supervision of such works, specialized consultants, and
training of federal and regional road and bridge staff. This
component would continue and expand the institution-building
activities financed under the on-going HRMP, including the
improvement of the FHD bridge management system and
improvement of the administrative, technical, and financial
relationship of FHD and the regions of the Russian Federation.
Project Implementation
7.   The federal component of the project will be implemented by the
FHD, and the oblast components will be implemented by the Road
Administrations of the selected regions with the assistance of, and
under the general coordination of the FHD. The Moscow City component
will be carried out by the City. The Project Implementation Unit
organized to implement the HRMP, Dorinvest, has been directed by FHD to
also implement the federal portion of the proposed project. It will
provide sample letters of invitation, sample bidding documents, sample
bidding evaluation report and similar materials to the respective
regional and Moscow city PIUs and is expected to informally respond to
their queries.
-3-



8.   FHD, the participating regions, and Moscow City, will select the
consultants responsible for the preparation of bid documents, contractor
qualifications and bid evaluation, and site supervision. FHD will
implement the project using the PIU established for the HRMP, Dorinvest.
This unit has functioned well and has the experience to both implement
the FHD bridge component and assist the PIUs of the selected regions and
Moscow City. The regional PIUs will review design and bid documents,
issue the invitation to bids, receive the bids and evaluate the results.
Contracts will be signed by the regional authorities, and payments will
be made by the regional PIUs.
9.   Under HRMP financing, qualified consultants, selected by FHD
following Bank procedures, carried out a feasibility study for bridges
to be considered for the project. Bilaterally funded on grant basis,
Finnish and Norwegian consultants are designing rehabilitation works for
three priority bridges included in the feasibility study so that works
can begin in the 1996 construction season. Additionally, works are
expected to start in 1996 on several bridges out of a set of 21
currently being designed under HRMP financing.
Project Sustainability
10. The project would enhance the capacity of federal and regional
highway agencies to plan, finance and implement bridge rehabilitation
and maintenance and therefore ensure sustainability by: (i) enhancing
resource mobilization; (ii) increasing the efficiency of construction
and maintenance through improved design and supervision of bridge works,
and improvement of the bridge management system; and (iii) use of local
contractors for rehabilitation and maintenance. The project is the
second step in carrying out the strategy for Bank assistance to the
highway subsector in Russia.
Lessons Learned From Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
11. Lessons learned from the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Loan and other ongoing loans in Russia highlight the importance of: (i)
identifying a committed counterpart team with sufficient authority to
move the project forward; (ii) coordinating among key interested parties
at the technical and central levels on critical or controversial project
issues; (iii) early detailed attention to procurement and other
implementation issues, particularly in view of the short construction
season in Russia; (iv) involving local consultants and institutes in the
process; and (v) carrying out a pilot component in the first project
year. The Bridge Rehabilitation Project will benefit from the
experience of Dorinvest, the project implementation unit for the HRMP,
since Dorinvest will be responsible for the implementation of the
federal component of the project and will assist the participating
regions to implement their component. The design of the project has
taken account of the above lessons through detailed plans for
procurement and implementation of the project, involvement of the
oblasts and the City of Moscow in the preparation of the project and the
use of local consultants to carry out the bridge feasibility study.
12. The Bank's experience in highway projects in other countries and in
Russia with the ongoing Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
- 4 -



shows that a key to successful implementation of a project is a
concerted effort to ensure that all stakeholders are involved in the
project from the outset. A series of action-planning workshops will
therefore be organized and conducted by FHD staff, Bank staff and
specialized consultants. The purpose of the workshops will be twofold:
(i) to develop and review responsible and attainable action plans for
project implementation, and (ii) develop project planning and design and
strategic management skills within the highway sector and monitor
project implementation. Experience gained by FHD and Dorinvest in the
HRMP launch workshop will be beneficial for the Project Launch Workshop.
Relation to the Country Assistance Strategy
13. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Board on
June 6, 1995; a CAS Progress Report is being circulated to the Board
separately.   Since the last CAS, the Bank has continued to operate
under an Intermediate Case scenario, which remains broadly appropriate
in the current environment. This scenario assumes that there will be
continued progress in macroeconomic stabilization, as evidenced by the
recent agreement with the IMF on an Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
program. In this situation, the Bank would aim to provide around
$1.2-1.5 billion annually in investment lending, including a "core"
program of projects in infrastructure and the social sectors such as
the proposed Bridge Rehabilitation Project. In addition, the Bank would
be willing to provide up to $1.5 billion annually in relatively
fast-disbursing assistance if substantial progress was achieved on key
structural reforms in specific areas of the economy, such as agriculture
and the social sectors, that are critical to the long-term
sustainability of the stabilization process. Over the past year, the
Bank has been working with the Government, both within the framework of
the EFF negotiations and in separate discussions, to develop a consensus
on specific programs of structural reforms that would allow these latter
operations to move forward. In the meantime, the Bank has continued to
prepare 6-7 priority investment projects as the basis for a sustained
program of Bank support for the Russian economy over the medium term.
14. The proposed operation is fully consistent with the CAS described
above. In particular, the operation will contribute directly to meeting
the Bank's key objectives, including: (i) continuing to support the
development of a market-oriented economy based on private sector
initiatives; (ii) developing public sector institutions and procedures
supportive of open and competitive markets and oriented toward the
provision of physical, social, legal, and institutional infrastructure
not normally provided through the private sector; and (iii) establishing
the Bank as a trusted and reliable development partner through the
financing of high priority public sector investments and policy advice
on key economic and sectoral issues. The project would build on the
relatively successful record of project implementation established under
the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. By focusing on
rehabilitation of critical infrastructure, the project is contributing
to a more rational use of scarce public resources in a constrained
budgetary situation. The Bank's involvement in the highway subsector of
Russia will help support FHD in its efforts to reduce the maintenance
backlog, continue the introduction of competitive bidding, improve
institutional capacity, improve the financing of bridges and roads, and
- 5 -



develop a legal, policy, and institutional framework for the transport
sector. The experience gained from foreign contractors and consultants
will help foster development of a local road and construction and
consulting industry among competitive lines. In addition, the exposure
to more advanced bridge technologies and equipment, and close
supervision of bridge works contracts will help local contractors
improve the quality of road construction and the efficiency of
operations.
Environmental Aspects
15. The project has a B rating since it is not expected to have any
significant negative environmental impact. Most bridge rehabilitation
and reconstruction works should not have serious environmental effects.
No immediate changes in land use, river bed flows, fisheries habitats,
settlement patterns or other socioeconomic factors should occur in
routine projects. All civil works will be carried out within existing
rights of way and involve no land acquisition. Because the civil works
comprise rehabilitation, reconstruction and repair of bridges, earthwork
effects on slope and erosion will be minimal. In general, the existing
standards and environmental regulations are adequate provided they are
adhered to during project implementation. Normal concerns during bridge
works such as adequate drainage, erosion prevention, vegetation
rehabilitation, and air and water pollution are covered by design
criteria, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) requirements and other
environmental regulations.
Program Objective Categories
18. Program Objective Categories. The project supports several aspects
of the Bank's program objectives, which include: assisting in reform of
the institutional structure of road administration and the contracting
industry, and furthering the use of competitive bidding; improving road
safety; and reducing environmental pollution.
19. Participatory Approach. FHD, local consultants and Ministry of
Transport (MOT) officials from the sector have been guiding preparation
of the project since its inception, including the process for selection
of participating regions. The regions are committed to the reform
process, including adoption of competitive bidding for bridge works.
The participation of FHD, the regions and MOT officials is expected to
continue during implementation through periodic workshops and project
mid-term review.
Project Benefits
20. The economic evaluation of bridges compares a "do nothing" strategy
with various alternatives, including rehabilitation, reconstruction,
widening, and replacement of bridges. Benefits of the different
strategies include cost savings from slowing down the rate of
deterioration of bridges, accident savings resulting from widening
bridges that are more narrow than the approach road, and time and
vehicle operating cost savings resulting from (i) the lifting of weight
control restrictions on bridges, (ii) increased speed of traffic on
bridges that have been widened, and (iii) avoiding diverting heavy
- 6 -



vehicles when bridges fail. Other benefits will be reduction of
pollution, institutional strengthening and the amelioration of social
problems through employment generation. The project will also
contribute to human resources development, particularly in bridge
management and technology, and assist in the development of a private
bridge consulting and contracting industry. The total NPV for the
federal bridge component is estimated at US$187 million and individual
bridges have internal economic rates of return from 12 percent to 87
percent.
Risks
21. A risk associated with the project is the possibility that
sufficient local financing, whether from road funds or other sources,
will not be available as needed. Raising road user charges to generate
more funds would be politically very difficult at this stage given
current economic conditions and political tensions, although funding
should increase with rising domestic fuel prices. At 1994 funding
levels for the highway subsector, an average of 3.9% of the federal road
budget would be required for counterpart funds for the Highway
Rehabilitation and Bridge Rehabilitation Projects over the next four
years. For Tver, counterpart funds required for the Bridge
Rehabilitation Project would average 1.5% of 1994 budgeted funds, for
Vologda 2.5% and for Moscow City 4.3%.   Therefore, the projects do not
represent a significant drain on federal or local highway resources.
22. Another risk of the project is that the development of the local
competitive industry for bridge works may prove slow and difficult, thus
delaying completion of the bridge works, as experience under HRMP shows
that several international contractors competing for road works require
strong local partners. The institutional changes or reforms required,
both in FHD and regional road administrations and in the industry, are
far reaching and their realization may take much time and therefore
cause delays in project implementation. However, under the HRMP, a
variety of actions have been taken to minimize this risk, such as
training programs in contract administration for FHD staff and training
assistance to contractors, and many joint ventures have been established
to bid for highway rehabilitation works. To cope with the difficulties
arising during this transitional period, the project will include
adequate funding for consultants to provide FHD and the participating
regions with expert advice on procurement and contract management.
23. Higher than estimated costs for bridge works on federal and
regional roads is another risk of the project. The experience gained
under the ongoing HRMP has provided some relevant information about
costs, making the current cost estimates relatively more reliable.
However, if costs do increase, then there will be (i) a lower number of
bridges included in the projects; and (ii) a change in the strategy for
some bridges following economic reevaluation in favor of lower cost
strategies.
24. Other risks include: (i) implementation delays due to slow
procurement. This risk will be minimized by a detailed procurement plan
prepared for the project. Also, a large part of the project will be
implemented by an existing PIU established under the HRMP. The PIU has
-7 -



already demonstrated its capacity and the project will be able to build
on the PIU's successful procurement experience under the HRMP; and (ii)
delays in signing subsidiary loan agreements, although the Ministry of
Finance is already working on a draft for Moscow City and the
participating regions. The major component of the project, federal road
bridge works, would not be affected by any delays in the signing of
these agreements since there is no onlending to FHD.
Contact Point:
Public Information Center            Task Manager:
The World Bank                       Cesar Queiroz, EC3IV
1818 H. Street, N.W.                 (202) 473-8053 (tel)
Washington, D.C. 20433               (202 477-3285 (fax)
(202) 458-5454 (tel)
(202) 522-1500 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 19, 1996.
- 8 -



