                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 25750

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (CPL-39900)

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                         FOR

                           A BRIDGE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                     March 25, 2004




Infrastructure and Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 1996 average)

                          Currency Unit = Ruble (Rb)
                                 Rb 0.20 = US$ 1
                                  US$ 1 = Rb 5.12

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1    December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BRP                 Bridge Rehabilitation Project
BMS                 Bridge Management System (City of Moscow)
DORINVEST           Project Implementation Unit for the Federal Component
FHD                 Russian Federal Highway Department (ROSAVTODOR)
HRMP                Russia Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
HRMP-2              Second Russia Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
IRIS                Intregrated Records and Information Services
MoF                 Ministry of Finance (Russian Federation)
MONSTR              Bridge Management System of the FHD
MoT                 Ministry of Transport (Russian Federation)
OED                 Operations Evaluation Department (The World Bank)
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
MADI                Moscow State Highway Engineering and Technical University
ICS                 Intregrated Controller's Systems
GORMOST             Moscow Bridge Department
SAP                 Systems, Applications and Products in Data Processing




                         Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                      Country Director:       Julian Schweitzer, ECCU1
     Transport Sector Manager/Director:       Motoo Konishi/Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
                    Task Team Leader:         Ben Eijbergen, ECSIE

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                        BRIDGE REHABABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P035764                                                  Project Name: BRIDGE REHABILITATION
Team Leader: Ben L. J. Eijbergen                                     TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BRIDGE REHABILITATION                                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-39900
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (93%); Central government administration
                            (5%); Sub-national government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other
                            urban development (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S); Public
                            expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/02/1994                                     Effective: 07/21/1996                08/19/1996
     Appraisal: 06/19/1995                                         MTR: 12/31/1998                  11/16/1998
      Approval: 03/28/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 08/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RUSSIAN FEDERATION/MOT; FED.HIGHWY.DEPT
                      Other Partners:      The Moscow City Government

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Country Director:               Julian F. Schweitzer                           Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR:             Ben Eijbergen                                  Cesar Queiroz
ICR Primary Author:             Slobodan Mitric; Luisa Velardi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The origins of this project date from the mid-1990s, during a period of an acute crisis in the life of the
Russian Federation, which had newly risen from the break-up of the Soviet Union. In the economic
dimension, the country was plagued by a severe recession, high inflation and fiscal squeeze at all levels of
government. In the transport sector, the crisis materialized with a dramatic fall in freight traffic of more
than 30% from the 1988 highs, felt especially by the railways, hitherto the predominant mode for both
freight and passenger traffic. The recession was the prime cause of freight traffic falling, but the move
away from central planning towards a market-based society had started structural changes in Russia's
economy, making it less transport intensive. A significant amount of haulage of basic commodities simply
ceased. At the same time, the rail/road modal split started to change in favor of roads with expectations that
this would accelerate once the Russian economy started to recover. By the year 2015, the percentage of
total freight (excluding petroleum) transported by road was forecasted to increase from 13% to a level
between 22 and 41%. The performance of the road system would therefore be on the critical path to a
successful transition to a market economy.

The Russian road network was not ready for this change, in great part because the current and capital
spending had been curtailed for some years, leaving many roads and road structures in poor shape. It was
estimated (in 1995) that spending US$1 billion per annum up to year 2000 would be required to get the
Federal road network up to a reasonable standard. For the huge regional road network, $3.5 billion per
annum would be required (compare to about US$865 million collected by the regional road funds and
another US$640 million collected by the Federal Road Fund, about half of which went to regions) . Such
an evidently large backlog was not due just to the downward pressure on public expenditures, but also to
the habitual preference in Russia for doing new construction as opposed to maintenance and rehabilitation
of what was already there. Behind poor quality of roads and structures were also technical problems, e.g.
design standards, procurement, construction materials, construction techniques, and project supervision. In
addition to these systemic problems, there were large variations, both financial and institutional, in the
fortunes of different roads, depending on whether they belonged to the Federation, regions (oblasts) or
diverse cities.

Bridges -- the largest, most expensive and most risk-prone structures on the road network -- were in an
especially vulnerable condition. Most of the 4,607 bridges on the federal road network were built in 1950s
and 1960s with sub-standard materials and poor construction practices. The regional network featured a
high number of timber bridges (about 10,000 out of 33,000 regional bridges). Throughout the system,
bridge maintenance had been sporadic, and also suffered from poor materials and workmanship. The
contracting industry for roads and bridges alike was still a public-sector monopoly not known for its quality
workmanship, cutting edge technology, or cost efficiency. In 1994, only 9.3% of federal bridges were rated
as being in good condition; 59.6% were in fair condition, 27.7% in poor condition, and 3.4% were in a state
of emergency. The most typical bridge problems involved poor quality of the concrete used and/or poor
construction methods, and insufficient water-proofing. These resulted in concrete cracking, water leakage,
corrosion of steel elements, and (ultimately) failure of longitudinal beam joints. Heavy use of de-icing salt
had led to corrosion of the main structural beams. Many bridges needed the replacement of facial beams
only, but others needed total reconstruction. Timber bridges on regional roads were in especially bad
condition, with main structural elements rotten beyond repair. Bridge closures on safety grounds were
causing long detours and/or traffic congestion on alternate routes, with major negative impacts on the
mobility of households and enterprises. Finally, some bridges were narrower than the approach roadways,
and widening needed to be considered among the investment options.




                                                     - 2 -

The organization and practice of bridge management was best at the federal level, and much less so at the
regional level. A system of frequent (once or twice per annum) routine and periodic inspections was in
place since 1991, complemented by more detailed diagnostics every ten years, or as special situations
required. The results were entered into a computerized database, and used to produce ratings with regard to
structural safety, durability, load capacity and traffic safety. The approach had many excellent features,
but also weaknesses such as: insufficient inspection of underwater sections, fatigue-prone and
fracture-critical elements. The frequency of diagnostic inspections on regional roads was low, and
centralized data bases for regional bridges had not been made. A bridge management system called
MONSTR, essentially a software package combining bridge and traffic monitoring data with bridge
deterioration and cost modules to help develop work programs, was being developed jointly by the Moscow
State Highway Engineering and Technical University (MADI) and the Bridge Division of the Federal
Highway Department (FHD). The name and organizational position of the latter institution changed several
times during the period of the project. Since neither its basic functions or its role in the project did not
change, the name Federal Highway Department (FHD) will be used throughout this report. This work
started in 1991 and held great promise, but its progress was hampered by sporadic funding and the absence
of economic criteria.

Responding to the above cited problems in the road sector, the Bank prepared a tandem of two projects.
The first, the Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (HRMP), was approved in 1994 and
completed in 1999. The second, the Bridge Rehabilitation Project (BRP, approved in 1996), is the subject
of the report in hand. Given the interlinked nature of roads and bridges, and the close timing of the two
projects, this report overlaps with and complements the Implementation Completion Report for the HRMP
(a complete reference is given in Annex 7).

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) (para. 4.1) cites the following objectives for the BRP:

       (1)   improve the physical condition of selected high priority bridges on the federal and regional
             road systems, and interchanges with high traffic levels on federal roads;
       (2)   assist in the reform of the institutional structure of road administration and the contracting
             industry, especially regarding the use of competitive bidding;
       (3)   strengthen the capacities of FHD to manage the bridges under its jurisdiction;
       (4)   reduce the backlog of bridge rehabilitation and maintenance on regional roads for up to five
             participating entities, namely Kirov, Leningrad, Novgorod, Tver and Vologda Oblasts and the
             city of Moscow; and
       (5)   improve the administrative, technical, and financial relationship of FHD and the regions of the
             Russian Federation.

The first and fourth objectives were to be reached by the investments and maintenance equipment funded
from the loan (see Section 3.3 below). The second objective was to be reached primarily through using the
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)-based procurement for awarding contracts accounting in total for
90% of project costs. Besides, project planning, engineering design and supervision would be done by
consultants selected within a competitive framework specified in the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. The third objective was to be reached by providing steady and sufficient funding for further
development and implementation of the MONSTR bridge management system. The fifth objective was to
be reached by providing training and other forms of technical assistance primarily to implementation units
at the Federal, regional, and oblast levels.

The objectives of the HRMP were almost identical, except that its institutional objectives were somewhat
broader, addressing financing and public expenditure for the road sector, and having an explicit focus on



                                                     - 3 -

the development of a domestic consulting industry. In fact, there is some double-binding: the Loan
Agreement of the BRP (in Schedule 5, para. 7) contains a provision that, following the completion of the
road financing study included in the HRMP, the Government would discuss the results with the Bank and
"thereafter, take measures for improving the road financing system for federal and regional roads."

3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no formal revisions of project objectives, but changes that were made when the project was
restructured in 2000 (see Section 3.4 below) fall in the gray area between objectives and components. At
that time, the federal/regional component was discontinued, leaving only the Moscow city component. In
effect, this left the Bridge Management Department of the city of Moscow as the sole focus of both
investment and the institution building objectives of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The main components of the project were:

         (a)   Bridge works (US$415 million base costs plus contingencies, 72% of which to be
               financed by the loan). This component included rehabilitation, reconstruction, and
               replacement of about 200-300 high priority bridges on the federal road network, about 20
               bridges on the road network in up to 5 regions (Tver, Vologda, Leningrad, Kirov and
               Novgorod), and about 20 bridges in Moscow city; and the improvement (including
               grade-separation) of 2 to 3 interchanges on the federal highways;

         (b)   Bridge management equipment (US$20 million base costs plus contingencies, to be
               integrally financed by the loan). This component was to provide vehicles, equipment,
               materials and supplies as an aid for better management of bridges on the federal and regional
               road network. The largest pieces of equipment included bridge inspection trucks, roto-mills,
               hydro-demolition machines, concrete integrity testers, and hydraulic jacks.

         (c)   Technical assistance, design and supervision of works and training (US$32 million base
               costs plus contingencies, to be integrally financed by the loan). This component included
               consulting services for design and supervision of bridge works, assistance to the PIUs and
               FHD in project management and for policy development, and training of federal and regional
               road and bridge staff. The key item on the institution-building agenda was the completion of
               the MONSTR bridge management system.

The Borrower (Government of Russia) would onlend US$35 million to participating regions and US$50
million to Moscow city. The subsidiary loan agreements would be based on a rate 150-250 basis points
above the bank loan rate, with 12-15 years repayment and a grace period of 3-5 years. This compares to a
17 year repayment period with 5 years of grace for the Bank loan.

The implementation arrangements were as follows. Dorinvest, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for
the HRMP, would also be responsible for the Federal component of the BRP. Road Administrations of the
participating regions and of the Moscow city would set up separate PIUs.

3.4 Revised Components:
Following the financial crisis in 1998-1999 (see Section 5), several regions requested their components to
be reduced and eventually cancelled. At the same time, the city of Moscow asked that its loan allocation be
increased, since the detailed studies of its most important bridges led to more higher-cost rehabilitation
options than envisaged in the initial feasibility study. The federal component also experienced financial
problems, in addition to more fundamental problems regarding project implementation. This situation led



                                                     - 4 -

first to a suspension of disbursements under the federal component, then to a substantial project
restructuring. The loan agreement was amended in June 2000, whereby the loan amount was reduced from
US$350 million to US$192 million, and US$30 million was reallocated to the Moscow component. The
federal and regional components were discontinued, except for the committed contracts. Based on the
deteriorated fiscal position of a number of borrower entities at the time of loan agreement amendment, the
project description was revised as follows: (i) the number of bridges under the federal component was
reduced from 200-300 to 50, and loan allocation was reduced from US$265 million to US$100 million; the
number of regional bridges was reduced from 20 to 16, and the loan allocation was reduced from US$35
million to US$12 million. The loan allocation of the city of Moscow for bridge works was increased from
US$45 million to US$65 million, but the number of bridges in the Moscow program was reduced from 20
to 10, involving a considerable increase in the amount of works (see Section 5.4). The equipment
component was also substantially revised. Its total allocation was reduced from US$19.6 million to US$5.5
million, to be implemented entirely within the Moscow city component. The component to develop the
Federal bridge management system was discontinued, but the work on such a system for the city of
Moscow was added in, involving a transfer of US$4 million in additional loan allocation. The Moscow
city's loan allocation for technical assistance was increased from US$5 million to US$11 million.

The following table shows the details of the reallocations:


           ALLOCATION OF LOAN BY COMPONENTS, PARTS & BORROWERS (US$ million)

           AT APPRAISAL
                                                  Bridge works   BMS      Techn. ass.  Total
           Federal Component                              228.8   15.3          20.9   265.0
           Regional Component                              25.3    4.3           5.4    35.0
           Moscow City                                     45.0                  5.0    50.0
           Total                                          299.1   19.6          31.3   350.0

           REALLOCATION
                                                  Bridge works   BMS      Techn. ass.  Total
           Federal Component                               83.8    1.3          14.9   100.0
           Regional Component                              9.4     0.2           2.5    12.0
           Moscow City                                     65.0    4.0          11.0    80.0
           Total                                          158.2    5.5          28.4   192.0

After the committed amounts were settled, the city of Moscow asked for the residual to be reallocated to its
program. The Bank did not agree. An additional US$37.3 million was cancelled from the Loan on April 4,
2001 (but the commitment charges on this amount had ceased in June 2000). Thus the Loan was reduced to
about US$155 million.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project addressed some of the key objectives of the agreed Country Assistance Strategy. This refers
primarily to the development of effective and efficient public sector institutions to provide infrastructure
and services not normally provided by the private sector, but with a nested-in development of the private
sector in investment preparation and implementation. The Russian Government had assigned high priority
to getting the road network ready for the anticipated traffic growth, and had already undertaken significant
policy reforms.




                                                      - 5 -

The preparation of the Project followed an exemplary sequence. The Bank first prepared a transport sector
review (in 1992-93), which did an excellent job of diagnosing the chain of problems leading from poor
infrastructure and services to weaknesses in institutions and policies. Project objectives and investment
components for both HRMP and BRP followed directly from the sector work. The project used a
cooperative approach to the selection of priority investments, working together with FHD, city of Moscow
and regional road administrations, subject to an agreed selection procedure.

The quality of project design was high, especially the standard of engineering and economic analysis for
bridge investments. Given the size of the road network and the number of bridges, a major effort was
needed to carry out a comprehensive bridge condition survey and to estimate standard costs. The
methodology for economic analysis was subject to much debate between the client, Bank staff, several
internationally respected road agencies, and various specialized consultants. Eventually, an agreed
procedure was issued in 1995 as FHD's formal guideline (upgraded later on, in 1999). In their review of
economic analysis for projects presented to the Board in 1996, the Operations Evaluation Department
concluded that the BRP "stands out as best practice in the transport sector". Moreover, there was a great
deal of quality information provided in the SAR on (i) the administrative and financial background for the
sector, both at a federal and regional level; (ii) bridge standards, design, construction and maintenance; and
(iii) the local construction industry. Detailed terms of reference for the major pieces of consulting work
(e.g. assistance with improving the bridge management system, design and supervision of bridge work, and
assistance to the FHD) were already prepared at the time of Board presentation and included in the SAR.

The implementation arrangements were standard, with an added advantage of having the main PIU
(Dorinvest) already experienced and tested under the HRMP. The new duties, of course, required that
Dorinvest staff be increased. Bilateral funding (from the Governments of Finland and Norway) was
obtained for the first batch of design studies, making it possible for the first-year program to be well
designed and ready immediately upon loan approval. Altogether, the project took into account relevant
lessons learned from other ongoing loans in Russia and in particular from the HRMP. These stressed the
importance of: (i) identifying a consistent committed counterpart team with sufficient authority to move the
project forward; (ii) coordinating among key interested parties at the technical and central levels on critical
and controversial project issues; (iii) early detailed attention to procurement and other implementation
issues; (iv) involving local consultants and institutes in the process; and, (v) avoiding costly design changes
during construction by having good-quality designs, vetted by an expert committee before sending
invitations for bids.

The project design fully complied with the safeguard policies in force at the time. The environmental review
was conducted in a timely fashion, risks and associated mitigation strategies were identified, and wider
assessment procedures for the sector were discussed. By today's standards, the environmental assessment
lacks only a monitoring plan. No formal financial management assessment of implementing agencies was
undertaken during design. However, this was not a requirement at the time and, moreover, the majority of
the program was to be implemented through DORINVEST, which had proved its capability during the
early stages of the HRMP.

The risks identified in the SAR were: (i) insufficient counterpart funding; (ii) slow development of the local
consulting and construction industries; (iii) actual works costs coming out higher than planned costs; (iv)
slow procurement; and, (v) delays in effectiveness of sub-loan agreements. This list is sensible and
complete, as were the corrective actions envisaged by the team. The counterpart funding certainly did not
loom large as a concern, given small co-financing requirements relative to the overall road budget on the
federal or regional level. However, counterpart funding turned out to be critical due to downstream



                                                       - 6 -

consequences of the collapse of the Ruble. This had not been envisaged, nor could it have been. It hit the
regional component much more than the others, given the predominant domestic sources of the regional
revenue. It is understood that the Federal Government insisted on the arrangement whereby agreement to
bear the foreign exchange risk was a principal condition to be met by regions to be considered for inclusion
in the project. This is a sensible approach in a stable institutional and financial environment, but highly
rigid in a turbulent state, with an unfinished decentralization agenda.

The complexity of the project stemmed from five aspects. First, rehabilitation of large structures contains
much more uncertainty than new construction, since the true condition of a bridge becomes known fully
only after various demolition works have been carried out. The second aspect was the scale of some works,
e.g. more than US$20 million for some bridges. Third, was the problem of traffic diversion. The contractor
may have only partial access to a bridge to start with, and traffic growth may call for additional access
limitations, with significant impact on the duration and cost of works. The fourth aspect was a wide
geographical scattering of the project, requiring interaction between three tiers of government. Fifth, and
not the least, was the introduction of a competition-based framework for design, works and supervision in a
culture with firmly entrenched monopolies. All these placed the institutional capacity of the Borrower on
the critical path. Technical uncertainties were approached with prudence, starting the project with pilot
contracts for both design and works, and allowing for design changes as long as increased costs could be
justified in economic terms. As for the implementation capacity, a massive amount of training was
scheduled early on in the project for DORINVEST and other PIU's, and was kicked off by a formal project
launch.

The design of the project could have been stronger in the area of institutional development. Except for the
bridge management system, this aspect of the project was not prepared and presented in as coherent,
explicit and detailed manner as its investment aspects. There was no ensemble of institutional
sub-objectives, instruments and measures of performance, as would be required by today's standards. This
is especially evident in a lack of specific targets and deliverables for most institutional items in the Action
Plan (as listed in Annex 4.8 of the SAR). Similarly, the SAR concentrates on technical assistance inputs
that would be made but provides little guidance on what "improved" situation the project was working for.
At the very least, the lack of explicit design made it difficult to evaluate institutional achievements at the
end of the project. This criticism is made in full recognition that providing numerical indicators for "soft"
aspects of development projects is a difficult activity, with a less-than-satisfactory state-of-the-art.

The nominal statement of objectives in the final Staff Appraisal Report went beyond what the Project was
actually designed to deliver. Specifically, the stated objective (4) was to reduce the backlog in bridge
rehabilitation and maintenance on regional roads. If this referred to improving high-priority bridge
improvements on the federal and regional road systems, then it is redundant with objective (1). If it referred
to bridges beyond those funded by the project, then the project lacked any instrument to achieve this
objective. Indeed, the project made no such attempt. It is likely that this objective survived in the text from
one of the earlier, discarded versions of the project. Similarly, the nominal objective (5) was to "improve
the administrative, technical and financial relationship of FHD and the regions", implying some changes in
the relative authority of the Federation and the regions, and/or the flow of funds from the federal level
downwards. The loan agreement says nothing regarding the redistribution of authority or funds. It does cite
(in Schedule 5, clause 7) the Road Finance Study carried out under the HRMP, and the obligation of the
Borrower to discuss the results of this study under the BRP, and ensure that measures would be taken to
improve road financing system. This condition is too weak and nonspecific to achieve improved financial
relationship of FHD and the regions and the BRP had no other explicit mode of involvement with road
finance. Altogether, this objective should have been reworded or dropped. The intention apparently was to
ensure that the federal level would share improvements in the institutional capacity for bridge management



                                                      - 7 -

with the regions, oblast road administrations and the city of Moscow. This should have been done simply
by including all sub-federal entities under objective (3).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
In reading the following evaluation, it should be remembered that the implementation periods of the HRMP
and the BRP, and the preparation of HRMP-2 overlapped for several years reference (Section 3.1). On the
Russian side, the FHD was the primary partner for all aspects other than the Moscow component. On the
Bank side, the same team led these projects, and most field missions were common. This completion report
therefore should be read together with the completion report and OED's project audit for the HRMP.
Materials recording the preparation process of the HRMP-2, specifically the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) and memoranda written after this project was withdrawn are also relevant.

Furthermore, it is important to keep the size of the investment in the BRP, as planned and as executed,
relative to the total annual expenditures for roads and bridges in the Russian Federation. The BRP affected
directly a relatively small fraction of total bridge-related expenditures, and an even smaller fraction of the
total road-related expenditures. This relation does not necessarily hold for the Project's institutional and
policy impacts, but these are quite difficult to gauge. A full treatment would require a study of how the
Russian road and bridge sector has evolved since the early 1990s. Such a study has not been done since the
1996 pioneering Bank report on road management in Russia. Two recent studies, the 2001 ECA study of
Public Investments in Russia and the OED's 2002 report Assisting Russia's Transitionprovide a broader
perspective into which lending operations in the road sector can be fitted, but do not trace the developments
in the road and bridge sector.

In the text that follows, the objectives will be numbered exactly as it was done in Section 3.1, and, for the
readers' convenience, the text of each objective will be repeated.

Objective (1): improve the physical condition of selected high priority bridges on the Federal and
regional road systems, and interchanges with high traffic levels on federal roads.

This objective has to do with implementation of the bridge works component and the benefits that flow
from these improvements, in terms of traffic costs and bridge maintenance costs. This objective was
reached in quality, though not in quantity. Because of the cancellations following the 1998 crisis, only half
of the original federal/regional program, measured in total cost terms, was implemented (see Section 4.2
below).

By all accounts, the bridges selected were important and critical to the transport system. Procurement,
design and implementation work has been of a satisfactory quality on all bridges. The quality of the
finished works has been declared satisfactory by the Borrower's staff and officials, and by Bank
specialists. The good quality is due also to the introduction of new designs, materials and techniques, and to
supervision carried out in line with the international standards. Economic reevaluation done for a sample of
federal bridges indicates that the economic benefits forecast at appraisal are likely to take place (see
Section 4.3 below). These positive outcomes notwithstanding, the FHD has concerns about the impact of
the cited innovations on construction costs. This subject is discussed in Section 9.




                                                      - 8 -

Objective (2): assist in the reform of the institutional structure of road administration and the
contracting industry, and further the use of competitive bidding.

Since no targets meant to capture the essence of this objective were formulated (or could be formulated),
the evaluation is based on Bank staff judgments contained in the supervision documents (especially that
written after the mid-term review), opinions expressed by the regional partners during the field visits made
during completion missions, and formal views from Borrower's completion reports.

Based on these, objective (2) has been reached. Both principles and the practice of competitive bidding for
works had already been introduced by the HRMP, but the BRP increased the rigor and transparency of the
tendering process, improved quality control during supervision, and provided more opportunities for
hands-on experience, especially for the regional road administrations. The same holds for the concept of
independent design and supervision. For contractors, realistic timescales set under the project helped to
ensure smooth operation and to reduce risks, as did guaranteed payments, access to international arbitration
and other aspects of the Bank's participation. The domestic consultant and the construction industry have
been strengthened by the experience gained in the project, both as regard the technical aspects (adoption of
new technologies, introduction of high quality standards, environmental concerns), and the capability of
dealing with ICB, therefore improved capability of competing domestically and abroad. This positive
evaluation is made notwithstanding the events after the fall of 1998, when the FHD failed in timely
payments to contractors and generally in financial management, which ultimately led to the Bridge Project
being reduced to the Moscow city component.

Objective (3): strengthen the capacities of the FHD, the regions and the City of Moscow to manage the
bridges under their jurisdiction.

The original statement of this objective is limited to the FHD, but (as discussed in the final paragraph of
Section 3.5) it is more practical to discuss all institutional work in one section.

The most visible instrument for meeting this objective was the development of a bridge management system
(BMS), essentially an interactive set of computer programs and field procedures, operated by an
appropriately staffed and empowered institution, and linked to the budgeting and decision making process.
The development of such a system at the federal level, (the sub-project called MONSTR) was accelerated
under the Project, but it was not completed. Once the federal/regional component was cancelled, the work
on MONSTR continued, but at a low level of local funding. As of this writing, it is still not complete, but
its intermediate outputs have been adopted and are being used. Some routines used for the federal bridge
system were developed for Moscow BMS (see the next paragraph), for example the modules for evaluating
and forecasting bridge conditions for specific road sections.

Upon project restructuring in 2000, the work on a BMS was continued for the bridge network of the City of
Moscow. The model was essentially completed and field-tested by the consultants in 2002, then moved
from the consultants' offices to its permanent home in the Bridge Department (GORMOST) of the Moscow
City Administration. The work on the model was coupled by requisite staff training, equipment purchase
and establishing a continuous data collection effort. The analytic part of the Moscow BMS embodies the
world experience, in fact it represents a cutting-edge of the know-how in bridge management. In addition to
bridges, it encompasses sub-models for managing other municipal structures, such as tunnels, underground
pedestrian crossing and quays. Even more important is that the Moscow government would give such a
high priority to its development and its adoption as a routine tool by a well-established technical
department. At their request, the loan was extended twice to permit the completion of model building, data


                                                        - 9 -

collection and equipment purchases. The expectation is that from its Moscow seed, the BMS will be
transplanted to other road administrations in Russia, as it has already happened in part at the federal level.

The project had a pioneering role in introducing economic evaluation to set priorities and plan bridge
works, which is much more complex in terms of data and subsequent analyses than that used for roads.
This required an unprecedented level of cooperation between bridge departments, local professionals and
external technical assistance during project preparation and implementation. A guideline detailing the
economic evaluation procedure for bridges was initially issued by the RFHA in 1995, based on the
experience with the main feasibility study on the basis of which the project was appraised. Later on, as the
experience with the first phase of project implementation occurred, including pilot batches of engineering
studies, an improved version of the guideline was issued in 1999. This version stressed the importance of
detailed bridge condition assessment for the selection of an optimal rehabilitation option, and for
subsequent design and implementation stages. The FHD has been using it since on selective basis to
evaluate individual bridge rehabilitation and reconstruction projects. The resurgent FHD plans to have it
mandatory for all federal bridge projects starting in 2004. Further development of economic evaluation
methodology was done for the city of Moscow. Bridge investments done under the project in Moscow
differed significantly from those under the FHD component, in terms of traffic, utility works, the
complexity and cost of structures. This required a corresponding strengthening of the FHD economic
evaluation procedure before it was included as one of the components of                the Moscow BMS. All
re-evaluation work for the project completion reports was done by local professionals, indicating that the
relevant economic analysis skills have taken root in Russia.

Beyond the BMS and economic evaluation, the project also assisted in enhancing the capacity for
environmental management. A Department of Environment and Natural Resources Protection was created
in the FHD in 1998. It prepared norms, standards and specifications for environmental protection and
mitigation plus operating procedures for environment sections. This department disappeared when FHD
was re-organized in 1999, but at least some experience accumulated by it has survived in the new Road
Department under the MoT.

Finally, the project made an indirect contribution to strengthening the bridge management capacity in
Russia by exposing more than 500 technical staff in the federal, regional and Moscow road administrations
to training in subjects relevant for bridge management. In addition to the transfer of knowledge, the project
helped increase the focus on bridge management, e.g. through the creation of specialized bridge
management departments where they did not exist before, as was done in Tver. The interest in this aspect of
the project was recognized in explicit terms as early as November 1998, during the mid-term review of the
project, when various parties representing the Borrower (Ministry of Finance, FDH, and implementation
units for all components) agreed that institutional objectives remained valid.

Ultimately, due to the cancellation of the federal/regional component, the city of Moscow emerged as the
main beneficiary of the institution building effort. In the course of the project, the Moscow Foundation
(project implementation unit) accumulated large practical experience in procurement of works, goods and
services according to the international practice of competitive selection, as well as experience in technical
supervision of construction works at complicated engineering sites. At the other end of the range, at the
Federal level, the institutional structure collapsed, the traditional road funding arrangements were cancelled
without proper replacement, leaving the road and bridge sector in turmoil. It is only recently that a strong
new organization has re-emerged, as a department under the Ministry of Transport. A new road finance
mechanism, however, has yet to be agreed.




                                                      - 10 -

In sum, this objective was fully reached in the Moscow component and partially reached in the
Federal/regional component. The overall rating for the institutional development impact is M (modest),
mainly due to the reduced scale of the Project.

Objective (4): reduce the backlog of bridge rehabilitation & maintenance on regional roads for up to five
participating regions, namely Kirov, Leningrad, Novgorod, Tver & Vologda Oblasts & Moscow City.

The project reduced the bridge maintenance backlog on the regional roads to the degree that
theimplemented program matched the planned program. For oblasts, the outcome is a fraction of what was
planned. The Moscow city, per contra, nearly doubled its involvement, turning this component into a
showcase of what might have happened under the entire project, had the Russian financial crisis not taken
place.

Objective (5): improve the administrative, technical, and financial relationship of RFHA and the regions
of the Russian Federation.

This objective is interpreted here in its strict sense, i.e. changing the authority (decision-making powers)
and/or funds allocation between the federal and regional level (reference Section 3.5 above). Thus stated,
this objective was not reached, since the agreed follow up to the Road Financing Study (reference Loan
agreement, Schedule 5, clause 7) apparently did not take place within the implementation of this project. It
is the generation of resources for road and bridge funding, and their allocation to the regions that is on the
critical path to different relations between the center and the regions. As noted under the preceding
objective, this has yet to be done in Russia.

The overall outcome rating:

The outcome rating for the Project is S (satisfactory). The reduction in scale and the loss of the
Federal/regional component were in the main due to factors exogeneous to the Project, and not at all to any
aspect of its design. The decision taken by the Bank management in 2000 to continue with and enlarge the
Moscow component (events addressed repeatedly in subsequent sections of this report) essentially said that
the scale mattered less than the substance of the developmental agenda pursued by the Project, which could
be pursued effectively through the remaining component. The events proved this decision correct.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a)      Bridge Works. In all, 76 bridge and overpass rehabilitation works were completed under the
project, at total cost of about US$180 million. This compares to 240-340 planned bridges, costing about
US$415 million. The following tables show number of bridges and costs, by component, at appraisal and at
completion. Costs at appraisal include price and quantity contingencies. Costs at completion are aggregate
disbursements in each works category factored up on the basis of 72% Bank participation rate.




                                                     - 11 -

                                          NUMBER OF BRIDGES

                             Component            At appraisal     At completion
                             Federal                     200-300               52
                             Regional                          20              14
                             Moscow City                       20              10
                             Total                       240-340               76

                                    COST OF CIVIL WORKS (US$ mn)

                             Component            At appraisal     At completion
                             Federal                     317.200             79.6
                             Regional                        35.1            13.3
                             Moscow City                     62.4            87.5
                             Total                          414.7          180.4

The divergence in appraisal/completion ratios between numbers and costs of bridges is due to several
factors. Some bridges from the original list were dropped and others were substituted during preparation
and implementation, often involving an upward change in scale and complexity. Furthermore, for some
bridges included in the project at the appraisal stage, the nature of the improvements as designed and
tendered was different than what was assumed in the original, network-wide feasibility study. Finally, there
were changes due to divergences between engineers' estimates and bid prices, and changes in work
introduced during construction. Generally, actual costs per bridge were lower than estimated at appraisal
for the federal and oblast components. In Moscow, actual costs were much higher than estimated at
appraisal, but in the aggregate lower than in subsequent feasibility studies. The Moscow experience is
discussed in more detail in Sections 4.3 and 5.4 below.

(b)      Bridge Management Equipment. The implementation of this component for the federal and
regional networks had started in 1998, but the first large batch of equipment, valued at US$5 million was
cancelled due to unresolved institutional problems (who was to own the equipment, how it would be used
and by whom, how it would be maintained and replaced). It took a year to make these decisions, but by that
time the crisis had done its work. The restructuring agreement cancelled the federal/regional component and
introduced an equipment component for the city of Moscow, which had not been included at appraisal.
Under this component, as a complement to the Bridge Management System, the city of Moscow purchased
diverse vehicles, bridge maintenance machines, and inspection equipment, amounting to US$8.2 million.

(c)      Technical Assistance. A total of US$35.2 million was spent under this component. Of this, the
Loan funded about US$27.5 million. This component included three major efforts:

        l Design and supervision of bridge improvements. This included both studies done by
             consultants and direct assistance to PIU's, accounting for the majority of technical assistance
             funds. Under the federal component alone, 133 sets of tender documents were produced, of
             which more than half were implemented subsequently under own financing.

        l The Bridge Management System (BMS). This was the largest single effort in the technical
             assistance component, with consultants' services alone costing about US$3 million. As
             described earlier in Section 4.1, this initially involved the development of a federally based
             package of programs (MONSTR), featuring a Microsoft Windows-based bridge inventory,
             structural design module, and economic evaluation module. After project restructuring, a new
             project-funded effort was started in the same direction, but with a different technical approach,



                                                    - 12 -

              under the auspices of the city of Moscow. It was carried out by a joint venture of consultants
              from Russia, U.S.A. and U.K. At the end of the project, a full set of modules was developed
              and made operational, including a complete bridge and traffic inventory (including condition
              survey), monitoring schedule, bridge deterioration module, structural analysis, unit costing,
              economic evaluation, and budget planning. Towards the end, the scope of work was increased
              to encompass underpasses and tunnels. The system was moved into the Moscow Bridge
              Department (GORMOST) to a newly formed unit, and its use was made mandatory from
              August 2003. Loan funds were used to train staff, furnish premises, and purchase computers,
              communications equipment and on-site bridge inspection equipment.

         l The       training program. This program continued and expanded the policy and
              institution-building activities financed under the then ongoing Highway Rehabilitation and
              Maintenance Project (HRMP). It included seminars, training classes and workshops in Russia
              and abroad. The topics included feasibility studies, procurement of works and consulting
              services, contract management, bridge design analysis, bridge repair, accounting and finance,
              and environmental management. Some 500 staff from federal and regional road agencies and
              about 50 from the city of Moscow participated in various events. The total exposure was
              estimated at about 550 staffweeks (compared to 200 staffweeks planned at appraisal). For
              Moscow alone, there were 22 seminars, of which 17 were held abroad (in Finland, Germany
              and Italy).

In all, the loan disbursed about US$153.8 million.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Following the completion of bridge rehabilitation works, economic rates of return were re-calculated for all
10 bridges improved under the Moscow City component, and for a sample of 10 bridges improved under
the federal/regional component. All work was done by consultants commissioned by the Borrower,
essentially the same consultants who were involved in economic evaluations done in the initial feasibility
study, and in subsequent, more detailed feasibility studies done for individual bridges throughout the
implementation period. The economic rates-of-return for the "after" case are based on actual costs of works
and an updated forecast of traffic volumes and traffic composition, based on current (year 2002) counts. In
all individual cases, the results are well above the minimum attractive rate-of-return of 12%. The aggregate
rates-of-return, weighted by investment costs, are 29% for the Moscow component, higher than 25%
forecast in feasibility studies. For the sample of 10 federal bridges, the aggregated rate in the "after" case is
23%, higher than 20% based on feasibility studies. Further details are in Annex 3.

For Moscow bridges, new traffic forecasts do not differ by much from those done for feasibility studies.
Effectively, then, the new estimates of economic rates-of-return are "driven" by differences between the
forecast and actual construction costs. These differences went in both directions, and stem from a variety of
reasons, chiefly bridge design changes, a different treatment of utility lines during construction than was
envisaged, different construction periods, and cost increases in some construction materials, e.g. in
protective polymer coating (please see further discussion in Section 5.4 below). Traffic increases on federal
bridges, spread throughout Russia, were in some cases well above those forecast at appraisal, which tended
to push the rate-of-return upwards.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.




                                                     - 13 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
This subject was covered in Section 4.1 above, under Objective (3).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main macro factor that affected negatively the implementation of the project was the Russian financial
crisis of 1998. The value of Ruble decreased more than 350%. The general climate of economic and
political uncertainty, the rising exchange rate and the closure of some of the local banks in which the
account of the BRP was deposited, induced delay in the biddings, in the payments to consultants and
contractors, and in the progress of the works. Since contracts for all smaller bridge works under the project
were Ruble-denominated and had no price adjustment formulae, there was havoc. For larger, dollar
denominated contracts, there were windfall profits. This crisis was foreseen during the mid-term review in
November 1998, but it was believed that only the regional program would be vulnerable, since regional
governments revenues were in domestic currency. At that time, works were completed at 30 bridges (27
federal, 2 regional and 1 in Moscow city), and works had begun at 70 bridges (48 federal, 19 regional and
3 in Moscow city). The participating oblasts did suffer disproportionately, their revenue being ruble-based,
but they tried to stay in the Project, requesting a re-negotiation of sub-loan terms with the Ministry of
Finance. When this did not work, the three regions withdrew from the project. The fiscal crisis certainly
meant that the Ministry of Finance was anxious to reduce both public expenditures and external borrowing.
The federal component, however, suffered much more than expected. There were payment delays of 8
months and more, excluding longer delays for disputed invoices. The funding difficulties were compounded
by institutional politics (addressed in the next section), leading to a blockage in most aspects of the federal
program, and pushing contractors and consultants to the edge of insolvency.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The term "government" in this section refers to the key government interlocutor of the Bank -- the FHD.

The payment backlog and other implementation delays under the federal component were in part due to
problems with counterpart funds caused by the national fiscal crisis. This was evident in a very slow
transfer of funds from the Road Fund to the project account, needed for counterpart payments to
contractors, consultants and suppliers. The fiscal crisis, however, was only in part to blame. Payments
from the loan account itself were also delayed. A major factor was a wavering in the support for the project
by the senior managers of the FHD -- the key government partner under this project. This cut across the
entire roads program of the Bank in Russia (the on-going HRMP and its successor, HRMP-2 then in final
stages of loan processing), and appears to have had three intertwined aspects.

First, the leadership of the FHD felt that the road and bridge projects that were designed and implemented
following technical procedures introduced by the Bank (design and supervision by independent consultants,
selection of the best rehabilitation strategy through economic evaluation, and contract award through a
competitive approach), were costing more than projects done in a traditional Soviet way (the primacy of
engineering criteria in design, work by nested monopolies). This was a feeling especially strong with regard
to road works implemented under the HRMP, and led to a detailed discussion of this subject in the ICR for
this project (WB Report No. 20948). Under the BRP, the bitterness over perceived high costs got mixed
with anger over windfall profits to contractors due to the Ruble devaluation crisis.

Second, the institutional position of FHD as a whole was not stable. Its scope of work and authority
relative to the Ministry of Transport changed several times during the Project, and its main source of funds
(a Road Fund fed by enterprise taxes) was under pressure from the Ministry of Finance, backed up by both
IMF and the Bank. Eventually, a decision to phase out the Road Fund was taken, with enterprise taxes


                                                      - 14 -

cancelled by January 2003. Road funding thereafter came from the budget. This meant a considerable
reduction in the FHD's powers.

Third, the Bank funded project involved a new relationship between owners on the one side (FHD and its
field Directorates), and design/supervision engineers and contractors on the other side. The field
Directorates were especially cross as having lost (to DORINVEST) the power over execution of works, not
least because they had been used to changing designs as the works proceeded. These internal tensions led in
June 1998 to a declaration by FHD that DORINVEST will be re-organized, meaning essentially that the
authority over supervision would be given back to the Directorates. The Bank advised strongly against this
move, proposing a gradual shift of supervision authority proportional to training received by the local staff.
Unfortunately, other events overtook the matter of implementation arrangements. A collapse of the ruble
meant that wages of DORINVEST experts became quite low. This, and the threat of reorganization, led to
an exodus of staff from this PIU, which made it very difficult to maintain the level of performance required
for the project to continue.

Promises to resolve the late payments problem and to restaff DORINVEST were made to several Bank
missions throughout 1999, but not kept. The cancellation of HRMP-2 in September 1999 by the Ministry
of Finance, and supported by the Bank's country management team in the Moscow office, did not improve
the situation. (It was indeed a bitter experience to lose a project already negotiated, approved and signed).
The Federal/Regional component was suspended in March 2000 on the grounds of the FHD being in
noncompliance with the loan clauses regarding due diligence in the provision of funds, services and other
resources necessary for project implementation, in maintaining an effective PIU, and in following the
agreed financial conditions in project accounting and auditing. Time-bound remedial measures were spelled
out by the Bank. When these were not met fully, the entire federal/regional component was cancelled in
May 2000. DORINVEST was disbanded, as were the oblast PIUs. At the time of project restructuring, 69
bridges were already rehabilitated (52 federal, 14 regional, 3 in Moscow) and bidding documents were
completed for another 128 bridges.

The Moscow component, per contra, experienced no financial difficulties, and the City Government was
firmly behind the project. The City asked for an increased share of the loan. The Bank agreed to this, and
the Moscow component became the success story of the Project. This supports the hypothesis that it was
not either the project design or Bank procedures that led to the demise of the Federal/Regional component,
but institutional problems of FHD amplified by the fiscal crisis.

In conclusion, the closure of the federal component could have been avoided, the fiscal crisis
notwithstanding, had the FHD kept its faith in what the project was trying to achieve in terms of institutions
and procedures.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were no factors subject to control by DORINVEST, regional PIUs and Moscow PIU which affected
the project in a major way.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were normal, expected differences in bridge rehabilitation costs estimated in feasibility studies and
the actual costs at the end of construction. Tables in Annex 3 show these differences for all bridges
included in the Moscow component and a sample of bridges from the federal component. Some actual costs
are higher, but most are lower than forecast. There are generally four sources of cost variation between
"before" and "after" cases. First, some differences stem from the "before" cost estimate having been
developed in feasibility studies at a relatively low level of estimation accuracy. Second, even when a



                                                     - 15 -

feasibility study was re-done for the finally adopted design option, there were differences stemming from
variations between final designs and those used in the final feasibility study. Third, there were variations
between the final ("engineer's") cost estimate and that offered in the lowest evaluated bid, depending on the
degree of competition and the risk involved. Finally, there are differences between the contracted price and
the final cost, based on design and quantity changes during construction, changes in unit costs of
construction materials, and the length of the construction period. Generally, a strong effort was made under
the Project to have quality designs (and cost estimates) before tendering, to avoid the experience in the
HRMP where costly design changes were often made during construction. Still, there were changes during
construction, be it due to additional demand placed by local governments and utility companies, or because
different conditions of the existing structure (e.g. higher degree of corrosion) were uncovered during
construction. Under the Moscow component, the largest differences were for the two underpasses
(Starobasmanny and Novobasmanny) where the repair and strengthen design was rejected (with the Bank's
agreement) in favor of complete replacement, to provide a much higher under-bridge clearance. This
necessitated the use of steel girders instead of cheaper reinforced concrete ones. The handling of utility lines
was a work item where some of the most substantial changes took place. Instead of leaving utility lines in
place, they had to be placed temporarily on special trestles, then relocated to a different depth after the
bridge construction proper was completed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The "L" (likely) rating is based on three aspects of the project. First, the high quality of the bridge works
and the materials used gives rise to expectations that narrowly defined project benefits will be sustained
over a long period of time. Second, the innovations introduced by the BRP and HRMP regarding
investment planning, independent design and supervision, and a competitive approach to procurement
appear to have been absorbed by the technical community in Russia, both inside the government structure
and outside it (consulting engineers, contractors and suppliers). It can be expected that this impact would
last and evolve. Third, the interest in and the success of the Bridge Management System in the city of
Moscow, and of MONSTR package at the Federal level, also supports the expectation of sustainability of
the technical aspects of bridge management.

Whether the positive expectations from the preceding paragraph will actually materialize depends crucially
on the overall institutional structure of the road sector and the road funding mechanism. The demise of the
Road Fund (the withdrawal of the enterprise tax, which had provided more than 90% of the territorial road
fund), and the dismantling of the FHD, coming as they did in the wake of the Russian financial meltdown,
dealt a strong blow to the sector, and to this project in particular. These moves may have been necessary on
macro-economic and public sector management grounds, but they were woefully partial. A turbulent period
of at least 2 years ensued, with damaging effects for the federal road network and all regions and cities that
had not already had a strong funding base.

The FHD has recently been reorganized as a lean, new-style department under the MoT. The new
department will gradually fill the gap in institutional memory and archives, and make up for the loss of
experience and knowledge with regard to bridge management created when DORINVEST was closed down
in 2000. This is a necessary but insufficient condition for the sustainability of all reforms for road and
bridge management achieved with the Bank's assistance and/or independently by the Russians. The key
missing element for sustainability is a reformed road funding system, to do away with wide fluctuations in
annual budgets, allocated without any connection to an orderly maintenance and rehabilitation work
program. It follows that the future Bank operations in the roads/bridges sector should focus on the adoption
of a sound system of road funding for Russia as the main development objective.



                                                     - 16 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
By the loan closing, full transition arrangements were made to move the BMS from the consultants to the
Bridge Department (GORMOST) of the city of Moscow. A special unit was created in GORMOST, staff
were trained by the BMS consultants, premises were furnished, the BMS was installed in the computers,
and bridge inspection equipment and instruments were purchased.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The lending part of the project cycle for the BRP is an example of best practice. The Project grew out of
the early sector work and the experience with the HRMP, thus having a solid diagnostic base combined
with implementation experience with essentially the same institutional system. The institutional aspects of
moving the bridge sub-sector from the Russian-style state socialism to a market approach were similar to
that of the road sector as a whole, but the scale, engineering complexity and risks of bridge works were
much higher than for roads. Throughout the preparation stages, the Bank sent in appropriately staffed
teams, including highly qualified bridge engineers, transport economists and other specialists, including
high-quality external experts. The tem interacted very well with their Russian counterparts in a sensitive
situation where the latter had comparable technical expertise in many aspects (e.g. structural design) while
being novices in others (investment evaluation, environmental protection, relations with contractors and
engineering consultants). This unusually appropriate and sustained staffing of missions was made possible
through economies of scale due to the use of joint teams for supervising the HRMP and preparing the BRP
and HRMP-2. In addition, the Bank team used its professional networking to secure specialists from the
US Federal Highway Administration, paying only their travel expenses. This in fact continued until the
very end of project implementation, providing 100% continuity in technical matters at the highest level of
expertise, a rare achievement indeed.

The design of feasibility studies, in that sub-projects were to be chosen from thousands of candidate
bridges, was approached with thoroughness, and the supervision of the preparation studies was as
thorough. This included a staged approach to feasibility and design studies, and firm handling of some
difficult situations, e.g. making the consultants re-do hundreds of evaluations upon finding that the initial
evaluations used irrelevant options which accomplished little. The pioneering work on complementing
technical with economic criteria for bridge investments was not limited to justifying the loan-funded works;
it went well beyond into a major knowledge transfer operation. The new economic approach for bridge
evaluation was adopted by the FHD for their regular activities, and built into the packages for both Federal
and Moscow bridge management systems. The ease of having the Borrower arrange for the economic
reevaluation at the end of the Project is one tangible indicator of the success of this effort.

For all these reasons, the Bank's performance during the lending stage is rated highly satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision     under   the  BRP     falls  into   three   distinct  stages.  The     first  stage was from
negotiations/effectiveness to the mid-term review. The Bank performance here retained the features of how
the project was handled during preparation: full-scope and continuous mission staffing, again combining
this effort with those for the two road projects in the Russia program. The use of project launch and
implementation-related training was done "by the book," as were four different lines of pilot projects
conceived to test the waters in both bridge design and construction. The reports from supervision missions
were comprehensive and modular, making it quite convenient for different categories of readers to follow
matters of interest to them. The general project files and procurement files reflect a tremendous amount of



                                                     - 17 -

work done by Bank staff and consultants in helping the Borrower advance the implementation along the
agreed lines, solve practical problems, and resolve or ease institutional issues in a cooperative way.
Difficulties in the procurement of consultants and contractors carried out following Bank guidelines were
formidable, given that this was an early stage of transition from a well-established approach of direct
contracting "within the family" to competitive bidding. As cited in Section 9(a) below, the Borrower did
have complaints regarding the length of time it took for Bank clearances of bid documents and contracts,
and there was confusion and delays in the disbursement process, but there was also a clear line of progress
as the learning process advanced. The Bank made a deliberate move to increase the rigor of procurement
practices between the HRMP and the BRP. Actions that were allowed under the HRMP, to speed
implementation during critical years for the country, were curtailed by the Bank as the political and
economic environment in Russia improved. Having an operating manual, now a standard aspect of project
preparation, would have helped this transition occur in a more orderly way, since basically the same
individuals on the Borrower's side managed the implementation of the HRMP and the first one to two years
of the BRP. Producing such a manual was being discussed, but the crisis of 1998-99 put a stop to that.

One of the more difficult aspects of supervision was the need to reconcile the results of the feasibility
studies, based on a rapid assessment of bridge and traffic conditions in 1994, with the findings of the design
studies, and sometimes of implementation experience under various pilot operations. This sometimes
involved the Borrower's demand to change at the detailed design stage from one rehabilitation policy to
another, often a more costly one. The condition of many of the worst bridges, which had been selected for
rehabilitation under the project, had advanced to a point that the rate of deterioration was accelerating.
Bridges were decaying so rapidly that initially selected strategies were no longer prudent or economic at the
time detailed design studies were conducted. At other times, problems with bridge condition were
discovered only after contracts were signed and works had commenced, involving significant cost increases
(Section 5.4). Both of these situations were handled very well by the Bank team, insisting on a new
feasibility study each time a change in rehabilitation policy was proposed for a sub-project, and making use
of the formidable construction expertise on the team to evaluate cases where the need for extra work was
identified during construction.

In the second stage, 1999-2000, the delays in the program and in payments meant that the project slipped in
the ratings, with unsatisfactory marks for both progress in implementation of investments and with regard
to development objectives. The problem with development objectives involved no less than a loss of
commitment by the FHD to the market-oriented approach to planning and executing bridge works. The files
show a valiant struggle of the Bank's supervision team to carry on with the technical aspects of the project
(with a vastly weakened DORINVEST) while attempting to re-establish the lapsed commitment of the
senior leadership of the FHD, against the background pressure by the Ministry of Finance to reduce the
loan as a part of the austerity program. It is noteworthy that the Bank maintained a high level of
supervision throughout these events, and involved a local (RM Moscow) staff on each mission. It is also
noteworthy that the Bank's country and regional management stepped in, using the instrument of the
Country Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPRs) to place all Bank operations in a common Russian
perspective. This was essential, since difficulties under many projects stemmed from the same (macro)
source. The CPPRs also involved the Borrower's major counterpart institutions, e.g. the Ministry of
Finance. The decision taken to cut the losses in the BRP just months after dropping the HRMP-2 after it
had been approved by the Board and the Loan Agreement signed between the Government and the Bank,
took courage and a firm commitment to principles enshrined in the loan agreement, but should also be seen
as an expression of the Bank's support for Russia's austerity program.

Should the Bank used the remedies available in the Loan Agreement to cancel the entire loan once the
Federal/regional component collapsed? The answer is most definitely negative. The judgment that the


                                                     - 18 -

Moscow component had a high probability of success in spite of the macro-crisis was proved correct, and
the benefits of this component, both on the investment and institutional side, are high and lasting. The
cancellation of the Federal/regional component reduced the scale of total benefits expected from the Project,
but did not invalidate the benefits in Moscow. The decision to continue with and enlarge the Moscow
component took both courage and foresight.

The third stage of supervision was by comparison simple, since the scale of the project was reduced to a
mere fraction of the original size. There remained but one partner (city of Moscow) and one PIU (Moscow
Foundation), and a very effective one at that. The staffing level of Bank missions was reduced, but the level
of technical expertise in the main discipline (bridge engineering and management) remained intact. It is
noted that a high-level technical support of the US Federal Highway Administration was maintained to the
very end of the project. The transfer of procurement activity to the Moscow Country Office reduced the
processing time and allowed the Moscow PIU a more continuous access to Bank advice. The results in
terms of the bridge investments in Moscow, as well as the dogged effort by the Bank in support of the
Bridge Management System to a full completion and institutional adoption, confirm that the supervision
effort was fully sufficient. In addition, extending the loan provided an opportunity to re-engage with the
new FHD. An immediate practical benefit of this was to have the FHD produce a completion report on the
Federal/regional component and sort out missing project audits. A longer-term benefit is indicated by the
on-going discussions about the future program of Bank assistance in the road sector. The re-enagagement is
also a sign that the reforms supported by the Project as designed are accepted by the FHD.

In sum, the supervision activities are rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation matched that of the Bank. The record indicates that the
FHD provided high-quality counterparts, who established good working relationships with the key members
of the Bank team. There is ample evidence of the Borrower's interest in and the ownership of the project
from its very onset, which does not mean that everything was going smoothly and always on schedule. The
changeover in the roles and the distribution of authority between various levels of the road/bridge
administration, and between these and the budding market of local and foreign consultants and civil
contractors, was not an immaculate and rapid process. What matters is that problems got solved, and the
preparation process moved at a steady pace. The Borrower's performance is rated highly satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Since FHD was the government agency leading the project on the Russian side, it is their performance
which is addressed in this section. From loan effectiveness in 1996 to the mid-1998's, under various
leaders, names, and organizational positions, the FHD was firmly behind the project. Problems with
complicated and long processing of various approvals was evident, but so was a desire to streamline these,
and an interest to organize and participate in training, and to pursue the improvement of managerial tools
like the MONSTR bridge management system. Likewise, the capacity of DORINVEST to manage the
Federal component was never entirely sufficient for the task at hand, but it was acceptable and the progress
was good.

In the second period, however, from 1999 to mid-2000, the voices within the FHD that spoke
dissatisfaction with the results of Bank-funded projects (HRMP and BRP) became stronger, increasing



                                                     - 19 -

with the onslaught of the financial crisis in the country. Apart from the financial problems under ongoing
contracts linked to ruble devaluation, the generic criticism of Bank projects by the FHD focused on the
following: (i) technical solutions coming out of the combined engineering and economic analyses were not
"right" (especially regarding the thickness of asphalt overlays under the HRMP); (ii) rehabilitation works
following the competitive approach cost more than if designed and bid "in the old way;" and (iii)
centralizing project management under DORINVEST introduced rigidity regarding the feedback between
the design and changes in local conditions and interests. While these critiques are not trivial and certainly
had some merit, given the above comment about intrinsic difficulties of transition in all fields of activity,
the way to handle them should have been through a give-and-take discussion with the Bank, while ensuring
the smoothest possible implementation. Instead, FHD senior management took a negative stance towards
the implementation activity itself. This was expressed by literally stopping payments to consultants and
contractors and in letting DORINVEST weaken beyond minimally acceptable capacity to manage the
project. At least a year of implementation was lost while the Russian Federation was paying commitment
charges on a loan residual of about US$230 million. Much of this was taking place while the FHD was
involved with the Bank in preparing the HRMP-2. Following the cancellation of the federal/regional
component, and the elimination of DORINVEST, the FHD did not take any steps to comply with financial
(audit) covenants, or to write a completion report to evaluate the experience. It took yet another
reorganization and new FHD management (in 2002) before both audit and completion reporting obligations
taken under the loan agreement were fulfilled (in 2003).

On these grounds, the rating of the FHD's performance is rated not satisfactory. This rating does not apply
to the FHD as it has been recently re-organized under new leadership. Nor does it apply to the city
Government of Moscow, whose performance throughout the project was highly satisfactory. The
Government of Moscow took an active stance in establishing investment priorities, ensured that the PIU
was well staffed, and supported it through the entire project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
This section focuses on the performance of project implementation units (PIUs). Mirroring what has been
said above about the FHD, the performance of DORINVEST was satisfactory in the first stage of the
project. This comes out clearly in the records, culminating with the mid-term review. Notwithstanding
normal problems of managing such a large operation, and early problems with the quality of designs,
DORINVEST performed well with respect to timely completion of works, sharing of best practices,
benefiting from lessons learned and solving common problems. Once the FHD started to reorganize the
implementing structure in 1998, and the specialist staff started to leave en masse because of low wages and
job uncertainty, DORINVEST rapidly lost the capacity to manage implementation. This eventually led to
the closure of the federal part of the project and the disappearance of DORINVEST, which led to a
dispersal of archives and noncompliance with audit covenants. Adjusting for the impact of FHD's conduct,
the performance of DORINVEST is rated satisfactory.

The Moscow PIU enjoyed steady support of the city Government of Moscow, and had a full and competent
complement of technical and administrative staff. They performed in a truly exemplary manner throughout
the entire operation, including procurement of works and consultants, initiative and participation in training
activities, audits and completion reporting. Audits were done on time, and findings of auditors were
implemented. The performance rating is highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
It is very difficult to rate the performance of the whole when its parts performed at sharply different levels
and at different times. In full perspective, a highly satisfactory performance of the Moscow PIU, a good
performance by FHD/DORINVEST before the crisis of 1998/99, and a strong performance of the Moscow



                                                     - 20 -

Government average to an overall rating of the Borrower's performance as marginally satisfactory. (Since
the ratings do not provide for marginality, the rating S is shown in the Performance Ratings summary in
Section 2).

8. Lessons Learned

Five lessons stand out in the experience with the BRP. First, in an untested situation and intrinsically
uncertain projects, the use of pilots for the first batch of design and construction contracts was essential to
identify the barriers of high-quality and cost-effective investments, thus speeding up all the subsequent
batches. Second, a corollary to the first, is that the use of bilateral grant funding for the pilot design studies
permitted an early start of these, without waiting for loan effectiveness. In the BRP, this took the sting out
of the wait from negotiations and effectiveness. It also helped that ironing out of the early problems with
designs took place in "free" studies. In addition, the use of grant-based expert assistance (e.g. bridge
engineering expertise provided by the US Federal Highway Administration) provided an excellent example
of how successful "free" service can be, a much-needed counterpoint to claims that such services do not
tend to serve the clients' interests. Third, the insistence on getting high-quality designs before tendering the
works resulted in a much better cost experience for risk-laden bridge rehabilitation than with a
comparatively simpler road rehabilitation works funded under the HRMP. Fourth, passing from an
implementation experience with relaxed procurement rules, introduced under critical circumstances, to a
more rigorous regime, warranted a major, formal, visible effort of communicating with the Borrower,
perhaps a relaunch. Fifth, in a project with geographically dispersed operations such as the BRP, there
were crucial trade-offs between centralized and locally-based arrangements for project management.
Resolving the tension between high implementation efficiency (especially as concerns the Bank's
supervision costs) and longer-term development effectiveness early in the project may have made a
significant difference later on as the pendulum dangled between the survival and cancellation of the
federal/regional component. The Bank had over-relied on DORINVEST, whereas it should have recognized
from the outset the valid concerns of regionally-based highway directorates. Future projects with dispersed
operations may wish to test a variable implementation arrangement, starting with a high degree of
centralization and a parallel training program, then shifting gradually the implementation authority into the
field.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments regarding the Borrower's experience under the federal/regional component were received in a
letter from the FHD, dated October 22, 2003. Comments related to the Moscow city component are
included in the Completion Report prepared by the Moscow PIU (specifically in its Section 7.1) and in a
letter from the city government dated December 2, 2003. References to these documents are given in Annex
7 and full versions are in the Bank's Intregrated Records and Information Services (IRIS4).

Comments from the FHD

On the positive side, the FHD recognizes that the use of competitive approach to bidding for works,
including prequalification, and independent supervision, a first such experience for Russian companies
working in bridge construction, has led to higher quality of the finished product, higher safety and more
effective resolution of environmental issues. In addition, the FHD acknowledges that the project was
instrumental in the introduction of new technologies for bridge rehabilitation and reconstruction, which also
contributed to higher-quality results on the ground.




                                                      - 21 -

On the negative side, the FHD cites the following:

1.    The Bank took excessive lengths of time to issue prequalification and bid documents, award
contracts and process contract amendments. It is also implied that the time needed to develop new designs
and bid documents was excessive. FHD claims that, overall, Bank funded projects took twice as long to
prepare and implement, hence higher costs and delayed start of benefits.

2.    Bank-funded bridge rehabilitation and reconstruction works have cost more than those executed
under normal FHD procedures (i.e. no prequalification, no competitive bidding, use of standard designs).
Rehabilitation works under the federal/regional component cost $350-600 per m , but in the same period
                                                                                   2


averaged only $200 per m done with Russian procedures. Unit costs for reconstruction works were
                              2


$900-1,100 per m under the project and $500-600 under Russian procedures. The key factors cited
                    2


specifically as having contributed to higher costs include "radical changes in design concepts" imposed by
the Bank and inadequacies in the standard bid documents. Higher costs made it impossible to implement the
full complement of bridge works planned for the project.

3.    Frequent changes in the Bank team working on the project, which may have had an impact on the
time schedules.

4.    The use of joint-venture (international) consultants. Difficulties experienced in managing these may
have increased both time and cost of projects.

Comments from the Moscow PIU and City of Moscow

The Moscow comments repeat the FHD's criticism regarding the length of time the Bank took for
procurement reviews, and add a complaint that delays between submitting withdrawal applications and
actual payments by the Bank were too long. On the positive side, the comments from Moscow echo the
praise proffered by the FHD, stressing especially the skills acquired by the Moscow PIU in managing
complex projects. Two positive comments from Moscow, however, cover matters where the comments by
FHD were critical. First, there is praise of the technical assistance provided directly by Bank team
members to the Borrower, and no criticism of their too quick rotation. (In fact, as noted above in Section
7.2, the Bank team had minimal changes of leadership and unusually continuous technical expertise).
Second, in direct contradiction to the views of the FHD, the city of Moscow states that "the employment of
competitive bidding procedures resulted in considerable fund savings which enabled ... additionally to carry
out the rehabilitation of Krymsky and Krylatsky bridges." It follows that the failure of one part of the
project and the success of the other part filter through to the Borrower's comments coming from these two
groups.

Response

Several preceding sections, notably Section 3.5, 7.1 and 7.2 address most of the above issues in detail and
will not be repeated here. Also, the critical remarks on design and procurement made by the FHD for this
project are similar to their remarks made with regard to the HRMP, and were responded to in that project's
ICR.




                                                     - 22 -

Specifically with regard to the FHD's statement on the experience with construction costs under the Federal
component:

       (i)   It is not valid to compare projects of different design standards and different quality of
             supervision using initial (construction) costs only. Design standards and tight supervision used
             under the BRP aimed at lower life cycle cost (including both agency and user cost), as
             expressed in economic rates-of-return. The post-facto economic evaluation for a sample of the
             federal bridge projects improved under the BRP confirms that costs were not excessive, and
             independent opinion confirmed that they were on a par with international experience. Finally,
             the FHD's recognition that the quality of the finished sub-projects was substantially higher than
             that of their other projects points to their overall success.

       (ii)  The federal/regional component did not stop because bridge improvements under the BPR had
             much higher costs than those pursued under FHD financing, but because the collapse of the
             ruble in 1998 created severe problems for the budget of the FHD and the regions, as well as
             diverse problems related to contract currencies and price adjustment formulae (Section 5.1).
             This major shock eventually led to the demise of federal/regional participation under the BRP,
             but -- as demonstrated by the survival and blossoming of the city of Moscow component -- this
             had little to do with the technical approach pursued under the BRP or procurement based on
             competitive bidding.

In closing, it is acknowledged that major changes in the entire project cycle for road and bridge civil works
involve a learning process which initially may increase the time and cost of projects, and cause conflicts. It
is unfortunate that events outside control of the project actors led to the demise of the federal/regional
component before the learning process entered a more stable part of the cycle. Finally, it is acknowledged
that it is always possible to improve the organization and management of Bank's mandatory reviews and
disbursement processes, the content of standard bidding documents, and the staffing of Bank teams. As
noted in Section 8, the tightening of procurement rules back to normal should have been introduced with a
formal event, such as a workshop. This said, the criticism of Bank performance cannot be used to call into
question its insistence on prequalification and competitive bidding, as well as the international participation
in design and execution of works.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
              Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate




No outcome/impact indicators were agreed for this Project.
Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
              Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Bridge rehab: design studies completed     200                                 141
Bridge rehabilitation contracts finished   200                                 76
Staff trained                              200 staff weeks                     550
Technical assistance provided              120 person months                   not known
Supervision activities                     270 person months                   not known
Bridge works employment                    2,000 person years                  not known

1End of project
Note - "Projected " indicators taken from Annex 4.8 of SAR. No explicit projections in PSRs.




                                                            - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate         Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Bridge Works                                               354.30           180.35               51
Equipment                                                   17.20             8.74               51
TA Design and Supervision                                   27.50            35.20              128

Total Baseline Cost                                        399.00           224.29
 Physical Contingencies                                     18.60
 Price Contingencies                                        48.60
                         Total Project Costs               466.20           224.29
                   Total Financing Required                466.20           224.29
Actual costs were estimated from data reported by the implementing agencies and disbursement data
available in the ICS.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                         401.40            14.00         0.00          0.00          415.40
                                 (289.00)         (10.10)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (299.10)
2. Goods                          18.30             0.00         1.20          0.00          19.50
                                 (18.30)           (0.00)       (1.20)        (0.00)        (19.50)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        31.40          0.00          31.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (31.40)        (0.00)        (31.40)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00           0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00           0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00           0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                         419.70            14.00        32.60          0.00          466.30
                                 (307.30)         (10.10)      (32.60)        (0.00)        (350.00)




                                                - 25 -

    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                 ICB               NCB                     2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                               178.04              3.89             10.56             0.00             192.49
                                          (111.51)            (3.15)            (8.02)            (0.00)          (122.68)
    2. Goods                                 5.95              0.00              0.51             0.00              6.46
                                            (5.56)            (0.00)            (0.32)            (0.00)           (5.88)
    3. Services                              0.00              0.00             32.61             0.00             32.61
                                            (0.00)            (0.00)           (21.55)            (0.00)           (21.55)
    4. Miscellaneous                         0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Miscellaneous                         0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                         0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               183.99              3.89             43.68             0.00             231.56
                                          (117.07)            (3.15)           (29.89)            (0.00)          (150.11)
    Total costs in this table, based on SAP, differ from the total costs in the cost-by-component table, which
    was pieced together from different sources (as cited above)
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
       (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



 Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank         Govt.       CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
 Bridge works                  299.10        55.30                   120.07        60.28                 40.1     109.0
 Equipment                     19.60         0.00                      6.30        2.44                  32.1      0.0
 TA Design and Supervision     31.30         0.00                     27.49        7.71                  87.8      0.0


Appraisal estimates include contingencies. Data in the Actual/Latest column refers to bridges actually
completed under the project, which is not identical to the list compiled at appraisal. Actual costs were derived
from the same sources as the first table in this Annex. Total disbursements in this table add up to $153.85
million which is identical to the sum of disbursements for all project categories in the current Loan Account
Summary shown in the Intregrated Controller's Systems (ICS) as of January 22, 2004.




                                                           - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

During project preparation, feasibility studies were carried out for the federal component and for the
Moscow component. The methodology used was a subject of joint development and much discussion by
Russian and Bank technical teams, as well as specialist consultants commissioned by the Borrower to do
the work and/or by the Bank to monitor the progress. The key elements of the scope of work were as
follows: (i) bridge inspection to determine its condition; (ii) traffic counts and forecasts; (iii) bridge
deterioration forecasts; (iv) evolving and costing design options, including (in the order of ascending costs)
do-little, base option; rehabilitation; reconstruction; and replacement, each with sub-variants; and, (v)
economic evaluation, featuring present value and internal rate-of-return calculations. This formidable task
had to be done for hundreds of bridges. The study showed that many of these were worth rehabilitating,
many more in fact then could be included in the project. A rationing by present worth was used to choose
the priority program, with individual bridge sub-projects having economic rates-of-return ranging from
12-87%. The aggregate rate-of-return for the program, weighted by investment costs, was 28%.

Since bridge inspection at the feasibility stage was of a broad-brush kind, it was anticipated that more
thorough testing and cost estimation done at the design stage might point at different design options as
being more attractive than the originally selected one. Likewise, traffic growth rates might change the rank
of design options. It was therefore agreed that each time a change of design was proposed by the Borrower
for any individual bridge, this would have to be backed up by a new feasibility study. The same was agreed
for those cases where the Borrower wanted to add a new bridges, because some other bridge was cancelled.
It was agreed to further develop this approach to bridge rehabilitation planning and turn it into an officially
sanctioned operational practice for the entire federal road network. The sub-loan agreements tied the
regions and Moscow city to rehabilitating only those bridges that were evaluated using the agreed
methodology. These agreements were adhered to by all parties in the course of the project implementation.
The method pioneered by the project became an operational standard and was built into the Federal and
Moscow Bridge Management Systems.

Following the completion of bridge rehabilitation works, economic rates of return were recalculated for all
10 bridges improved under the Moscow city component, and for a sample of 10 bridges improved under the
federal/regional component. The "before" rates are based on the original feasibility study or, if the design
had changed later on, these rates are from latest-date feasibility studies undertaken in the course of detailed
design to justify the change. The "after" rates are based on actual costs of works and a new forecast of
traffic volumes and traffic composition, based on current counts.

The results for individual bridges in the Moscow City component are as follows:

                  BRIDGE            Cost forecast       Actual Cost     ERR "before"         ERR
                                        in US$        in US$ million         %             "after"
                                        million                                               %
             Vorobiovsky                       2.0                2.6              38               31
             StaroBasmany                      1.1                5.8              37               18
             NovoBasmany                       1.0                4.0              34               18
             NovoSpassky                      19.3               14.2              22               37
             Bolshoi Ustinsky                 28.5               22.2              37               41
             Ostapovsky                        4.5                4.1              25               27
             Khoroshevsky                      6.0                1.9              22               35
             Borodinsky                       26.0               20.8              15               22
             Krimsky                           8.0                9.7              23               19
             Krylatsky                         3.2                2.2              17               26
             TOTAL                            99.5               87.5              31               29




                                                    - 27 -

The total investment cost of these 10 bridges was US$87.47 million. The overall economic rate-of-return,
weighted by actual costs is 29%, compared to 31% forecast in feasibility studies for these same bridges and
28% forecast at appraisal for the entire program. As explained in the Borrower's economic evaluation
reports (full references in Annex 7), ERRs from the original feasibility studies were re-calculated to reflect
changes in the economic evaluation procedure adopted as a standard by the authorities.

For Moscow bridges, new traffic forecasts do not differ by much from those done for feasibility studies.
Effectively, then, the new estimates of economic rates-of-return are "driven" by differences between the
forecast and actual construction costs. These differences went in both directions, and stem from a variety of
reasons, chiefly design changes between feasibility and bidding, a different treatment of utility networks
during construction, design changes made during construction, longer construction periods, and increases in
costs of some construction materials (e.g. protective polymer paints). Longer construction periods were
caused by delays in clearing the site (done by other contractors and authorities such as utility companies),
extra work items, and reduced access to the bridge because of attempts to accommodate the traffic. For
example, the works on Krimsky Bridge on the busy Garden Ring had to be done in three stages, to permit
traffic flow during construction, which increased costs by 10-15%. This sub-project also experienced
additional works in the garage part of the structure due to unexpected amounts of corrosion, but also
managed to reduce costs by shortening the execution period from 14 to 9 months. Starobasmanny and
Novobassmanny Overpasses were both replaced, instead of following the initially planned
repair-and-strengthen design. Under-bridge clearance was increased, utility lines were placed on special
trestles, and (for Novobasmanny only) the carriageway was widened, and a pedestrian underpass was
added.

Traffic growth rates for a sample of 10 bridges improved under the federal/regional component showed
more variation than in Moscow, whereas the differences between forecasted and actual construction costs
were smaller. The costs and economic rates-of-return are as follows:

                                              Cost "before" Actual Cost         ERR            ERR
   BRIDGE OR OVERPASS                         in US$           in US$           "before"       "after"
                                              million          million          %              %
   Yaryn'ya River                                         2.7              2.4            20             20
   Moscow-St. Petersburg Rd 440 km                        3.2              2.4            20             22
   Moscow-Kazan Rd Ryksha River                           0.7              0.7            29             30
   Moscow-Kazan Rd 691 km                                 0.6              0.7            24             23
   Moscow-Kazan Rd 726 km                                 0.7              0.7            35             34
   Irkutsk-Khabarovsk Rd 61 km                            7.3              5.1            18             18
   Severka River Moscow-Rostov Rd                         0.5              0.4            33             37
   Overpass Moscow-Rostov Rd 76.2 km                      0.8              0.4            23             37
   Overpass Moscow-Rostov Rd 76.3 km                      1.6              0.9            16             28
   Kashirka Riv Moscow-Rostov Rd                          0.7              0.4            26             42
   TOTAL                                                 18.8            14.1             20             23

Most of these bridges are small-scale, and the authorities stuck to rehabilitation options selected in the
original feasibility study. The total investment cost in these bridges was US$14.25 million. The overall
economic rate-of-return for these 10 bridges, weighted by actual costs, is 23%, slightly higher than forecast
in feasibility studies. The aggregate net present value is US$10.4 million, compared to US$8.8 million
forecast in feasibility studies.




                                                    - 28 -

Further details are provided in the 2 reports prepared by V.I. Shesterikov et al, commissioned by the
Moscow Project Implementation Unit, and the report by E.V. Dinges prepared for the Russian Federal
Road Administration. Full references are provided in Annex 7. All three reports are available in the ICR
section of this Project's file in IRIS4.




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/94                     1    Highway engineer/TTL

              05/94                     1    Highway Engineer/TTL
                                        1       Transport Economist
                                        1       Research Assistant

              06/94                     1    Highway Engineer/TTL
                                        1       Bridge Engineer
                                        2       Transport economist
                                        1       Research Assistant

              11/94                     1    Highway Engineer/TTL
                                        1      Transport Economist
                                        2       Highway Engineer
                                        1       Bridge Engineer
                                        1       Research Assistant

              03/95                     1    Highway Engineer/TTL
                                        1       Procurement Specialist
                                        1       Transport Economist
                                        1       Bridge Engineer
                                        1       Research Assistant

              05/95                     1    Highway Engineer/TTL
                                        1       Transport Economist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/95                     1    Highway Engineer/TTL
                                        1       Bridge Engineer
                                        1       Transport Economist
                                        1       Procurement Engineer
                                        1       Environment Spec
                                        2       Counsel
                                        1       Research Assistant
                                        1       ECAVP representative

              10/95                     1    Highway Engineer/TTL
                                        1       Procurement Engineer
                                        1       Construction Engineer
                                        1       Transport Economist
                                        1       Research Assistant

              11/95                     1    Transport Economist
                                        1       Bridge Engineer




                                              - 30 -

           12/95    1 Transport Economist


Supervision
           04/96    1 Highway Engineer/TTL                S    S
                    1   Construction Engineer
                    1   Research Assistant

           06/96    1 Highway Engineer/TTL                S    S
                    1   Research Assistant
                    1   Procurement Expert
                    1   Transport Economist
                    1   Geological Engineer
                    1   Bridge Engineer
                    1   Construction Expert
                    1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)

           09/96    1 Highway Engineer/TTL                S    S
                    1   Bridge Engineer
                    1   Procurement Expert
                    1   Economist
                    1   Construction Expert
                    1   Environment Specialist
                    1   Research Assistant

           02/97    1 Highway Engineer/TTL                S    S
                    1   Bridge Engineer
                    1   Procurement Specialist
                    1   Research Assistant
                    1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)

           06/97    1 Highway Engineer/TTL                S    S
                    1   Procurement Specialist
                    2   Transport Economist
                    1   Bridge Engineer
                    1   Construction Engineer
                    1   Geological Specialist
                    1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                    1   Research Assistant

           09/97    1 Highway Engineer/TTL                S    S
                    1  Bridge Engineer
                    1  Geological Engineer
                    1  Construction Engineer
                    1  Procurement Specialist
                    1  Transport Economist
                    1  Org & Management Specialist
                    1  Construction Industry Specialist
                    1  Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                    1  Research Assistant

           03/98    1 Highway Engineer/TTL                S    S
                    1   Bridge Engineer
                    1   Geological Specialist



                      - 31 -

         1   Procurement Specialist
         1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
         1   Research Assistant

06/98    1 Highway Engineer/TTL              S    S
         1   Bridge Engineer
         1   Construction Engineer
         1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
         1   Sector manager

11/98    1 Highway Engineer/TTL              S    S
         1   Bridge Engineer
         1   Construction Engineer
         1   Environment Specialist
         1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
         1   Road Safety Specialist
         1   Research Assistant

03/99    1 Highway Engineer/TTL              U    U
         1  Bridge Engineer
         1  Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
         1  Procurement Specialist
         1  Environment Specialist
         1   Research Assistant

07/99    1 Highway Engineer/TTL              U    U
         1  Bridge Engineer
         1  Procurement Specialist
         1  Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
         1  Counsel
         1 Transport Specialist

09/99    1 Highway Engineer/TTL              U    U
         1   Bridge Engineer
         1   Procurement Specialist
         1   Environment Specialist
         1   Transport Specialist
         1   Highway Engineer

12/99    1 Highway Engineer/TTL              U    U
         1   Bridge Engineer
         1   Procurement Specialist
         1   Environment Specialist
         1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
         1   Financial Specialist

09/00    1 Highway Engineer/TTL              S    S
         1   Bridge Engineer
         1   Procurement Specialist
         1   Financial Specialist (RM)
         1   Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
         1   Sector Manager




           - 32 -

               12/00                          1   Operations Specialist/TTL
                                              1      Infrastructure Engineer (RM)
                                              1      Highway Engineer

               02/01                          1   Highway Engineer                        S              S

               07/01                          1   Bridge Engineer                         S              S

               02/02                          1   Highway Engineer                        S              S
                                              1      Procurement Specialist (RM)

               06/02                          1   Operations Specialist/TTL               S              S
                                              1      Transport Economist
                                              1      Bridge Engineer

               11/02                          1   Bridge Engineer                         S              S
                                              1      Sr. Operations Officer

               03/03                          1   Bridge Engineer                         S              S
                                              1      Sr. Transport Specialist


 ICR
               2/2002                         1     Transport Specialist

               6/2002                         1     Transport Specialist

               7/2003                         1      Bridge Engineer

(1) Ratings for September 2000 mission and after apply to a vastly reduced project.
(2) There are discrepancies between SAP supervision records and project files. Several missions were
called "partial" in that a specialist was dispatched to focus on one or few aspects of the project. Such
missions did not produce project status reports and did not rate the overall progress in implementation and
reaching development objectives. Similarly, of the three ICR missions, the first two coincided with a
supervision mission.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                       571.44
  Supervision                                                                 899.04
  ICR
  Total                                                                      1470.48
The SAP database shows only LEN and SPN totals. The amounts date from December 2003.




                                                   - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
The ratings for the Borrower performance represent a compromise between the HS performance on the
Moscow component and the U performance on the Federal/oblast component. Please consult Section
7.4-7.7.




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation, Implementation Completion Report of the Bridge
Rehabilitation Project, June 2002 (in Russian) - available in IRIS and also attached here:




                     BRP_ICR_from Rosavtodor_Part1.pdf




                     BRP_ICR_from Rosavtodor_Part2.pdf




                     BRP_ICR_from Rosavtodor_Part3.pdf




                     BRP_ICR_from Rosavtodor_Part4.pdf




                      BRP_ICR_from Rosavtodor_Part5.pdf


Moscow Foundation, Bridge Rehabilitation Project - Implementation Completion Report for the
Moscow Component, Moscow, May 2002; available in IRIS and also attached here:




                          ICR from Moscow PIU.doc ICR from Moscow PIU - Tables.xls


E.V. Dinghes, Estimation of Effectiveness in the Program of Repair and Reconstruction of the Bridges
on the Federal Highway Network in 1995-1999 due to the Loan of the World Bank, Moscow 2002;
available in IRIS and also attached here:




                          Dinghes Federal Bridges.PDF


V. I. Shesterikov et al., Economic Efficiency Evaluation of Rehabilitation of Nine Highway Bridges in
Moscow in 1996-2000 Financed from IBRD Loan, Report to the Moscow (Project Implementation Unit)
Foundation, Moscow 2002; available in IRIS and also attached here:




                            Moscow 9 Bridges.pdf




                                                   - 36 -

E.V. Dinghes and V. I. Shesterikov, Economic Efficiency Evaluation of Investment in Rehabilitation of
Krylatsky Highway Bridge over the Moscow River, Moscow, 2003; available in IRIS and also attached
here:




                           EE Krylatsky Bridge.doc


A.A. Geidt, The Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation, Federal Highway Administration, Loan
3990-RU Implementation Results, Letter to Mr. Julian Schweitzer dated October 22, 2003; available in
IRIS and also attached here:


                  2003.10.22 BRP_ICR_Letter from Geidt_eng.doc


Yury V. Roslyak, Deputy Mayor of Moscow, Letter to Mr. Julian Scweitzer dated December 02, 2003;
the scanned original in Russian is available in IRIS and the English translation is attached here:




                   2003.12.02 MUTP_Letter from Roslyak_eng.doc


Franck Bousquet and Cesar Queiroz, Road Management in Russia, Internal Discussion Paper, Report
No. IDP-159, Europe and Central Asia Region, The World Bank, Washington, D.C., February 1996

Russian Federation - Bridge Rehabilitation Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Report No. 14377-RU,
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division, Country Department II, Europe and Central Asia
Region, The World Bank, Washington, D.C., February 26, 1996

Russia - Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan 3706-RU)-Implementation
Completion Report, Report No. 20948, The World Bank, Washington, D.C., April 12, 2001

Assisting Russia's Transition - An Unprecedented Challenge, World Bank Operations Evaluation
Department, The World Bank, Washington, D.C., 2002.




                                                    - 37 -

- 38 -

