Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3990 RU
                               Loan Agreement
                        (Bridge Rehabilitation Project)
                                   between
                              RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated May 22, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3990 RU
                         LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1996, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B) Parts B and D.2 of the Project will be carried out by the
Participating Regions (as such term is defined hereinbelow) and Parts C
and D.3 of the Project will be carried out by Moscow City (Moscow City),
all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Participating Regions and Moscow City a
part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                 General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
            withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in
            the territories of any country which is not a member of the
            Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons
            or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or
            import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a
            decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
            Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
            any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
            with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
            Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "FHD" means the Federal Highway Department within MOT and
includes any successor or successors thereto;
      (b)   "Federal PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred
to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "Moscow City" means Moscow City, a subject of the Russian
Federation (an administrative subdivision of the Borrower), and includes
any successor or successors thereto;
      (d)   "Moscow City PIU" means the Moscow City Project Implementation
Unit referred to in paragraph 12(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (e)   "Moscow City Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
entered into between the Borrower and Moscow City pursuant to Section
3.01(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Moscow City Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (f)   "MOT" means the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower and
includes any successor or successors thereto;
      (g)   "Participating Region" and "Participating Regions" mean,
singularly and collectively, the region or regions selected for
participation in the Project pursuant to paragraph 5(a) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;
      (h)   "Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and
"Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreements" mean, singularly and
collectively, the agreement or agreements entered into separately between
the Borrower and each of the Participating Regions pursuant to Section
3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such terms include all schedules and agreements supplemental to any
Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement or all Participating
Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreements respectively;
      (i)   "Regional PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred
to in paragraph 11(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
      (j)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section
2.02(b) of this Agreement.
                           ARTICLE II
                            The Loan
Page  3
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
three hundred fifty million dollars ($350,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by
the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and D.1, Parts
B and D.2 (separately in respect of each of the Participating Regions),
and Parts C and D.3 of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars separate
special deposit accounts in a commercial bank or banks acceptable to the
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, each of the respective Special Accounts shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                  of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                  bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
                  amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
Page  4
                  to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
                  of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
                  preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
                  of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
                  accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
                  preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
                  applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
                  the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
                  Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
                  on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
                  year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                           ARTICLE III
                    Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts A and D.1 of the Project
through MOT and FHD, and (ii) shall cause each of the Project Regions
to carry out Parts B and D.2 of the Project and Moscow City to carry
out Parts C and D.3 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering and
financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of
the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and D.1 of the Project and
cause the Participating Regions and Moscow City to carry out Parts B and
D.2 and Parts C and D.3, respectively, of the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the
Loan to Participating Regions under separate subsidiary loan agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the Participating
Regions, under terms and conditions, compatible with the terms and
conditions of this Loan Agreement, which shall have been approved by
the Bank including but not limited to the following: (i) the Borrower
shall onlend to each of the Participating Regions an amount in various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount,
agreed by the Bank, from a total sum of thirty five million dollars
($35,000,000) (Subsidiary Loan for purposes of this subsection); (ii)
term of the Subsidiary Loan shall be twelve to fifteen years, including
a three to five year grace period; (iii) the Borrower shall charge a
commitment fee at a rate equal to the rate of commitment charge payable
under Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (iv) the Borrower shall charge
interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate of 150-250 basis points above the
rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (v) the repayment of
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the equivalent to the
value (determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the
Special Account on account of expenditures for Parts B and D.2 of the
Project; and (vi) the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 11 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the
Loan to Moscow City under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
Page  5
between the Borrower and Moscow City, under terms and conditions,
compatible with the terms and conditions of this Loan Agreement, which
shall have been approved by the Bank including but not limited to the
following: (i) the Borrower shall onlend an amount in various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000) (Subsidiary Loan for purposes of this
subsection); (ii) term of the Subsidiary Loan shall be twelve to fifteen
years, including a three to five year grace period; (iii) the Borrower
shall charge a commitment fee at a rate equal to the rate of commitment
charge payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (iv) the Borrower
shall charge interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate of 150-250 basis
points above the rate payable under Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (v)
the repayment of principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the
equivalent to the value (determined as of the date or respective dates
of repayment) of currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account
or paid out of the Special Account on account of expenditures for Parts
C and D.3 of the Project; and (vi) the terms and conditions specified in
paragraph 12 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Participating
Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Participating Regions
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
      (f)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Moscow City
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Moscow City Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Bank, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                       Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Parts A and D.1 of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
Page  6
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
                  all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of
the departments or agencies of the Participating Regions and Moscow City
responsible for carrying out Parts B and D.2 and Parts C and D.3,
respectively, of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause each of the Participating Regions and
Moscow City to:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements and
                  the records and accounts for their respective Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  such records, accounts and financial statements and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall cause each of the Participating Regions and Moscow City to:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
Page  7
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                  support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                      Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,'
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Any of the Participating Regions or Moscow City shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Participating Regions
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Moscow City Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
respectively.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that any of the Participating Regions or Moscow
City will be able to perform its obligations under the Participating
Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Moscow City Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, respectively.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event
specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                           ARTICLE VI
                   Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that FHD has
opened a Project bank account for the purposes of Parts A and D.1 of the
Project with an initial deposit in local currency of the Borrower
equivalent to at least five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) pursuant
to paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VII
            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ilyinka Street 9
            103097, Moscow
Page  8
            Russian Federation
                                         Telex:
                                         112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
                  Cable address:          Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and
year first above written.
                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                        By /s/ Vladimir Kadannikov
                                      Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
                                                      President
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items (goods, works
and services) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated        % of
                            (Expressed in    Expenditures
                               Dollar            to be
      Category               Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Civil works                               72%
      (a) under Part A.1    228,800,000
          of the Project
      (b) under Part B.1     25,300,000
          of the Project
      (c) under Part C.1     45,000,000
Page  9
          of the Project
(2)   Vehicles, Equipment,                      100% of foreign
      Materials and                             expenditures,
      Supplies                                  100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
      (a) under Part A.2     15,300,000
          of the Project
      (b) under Part B.2      4,300,000
          of the Project
(3)   Consultants'                              100%
      Services and
      Training
      (a) under Part D.1     20,900,000
          of the Project
      (b) under Part D.2      5,400,000
          of the Project
      (c) under Part D.3      5,000,000
          of the Project
                             __________
      TOTAL                 350,000,000
                            ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories 1(a) and 3(a) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after April 30, 1995; (b) Categories 1(b), 2(b),
and 3(b) in respect of each of the Participating Regions, separately,
unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to it, that the
concerned Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement has become
effective and that it has been duly authorized and is legally binding
upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and (c) Categories
1(c) and 3(c), unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to it,
that Moscow City Subsidiary Loan Agreement has become effective and that
it has been duly authorized and is legally binding upon the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works,
and services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
                   Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the technical
condition of selected high priority bridges on the federal and regional
road systems and interchanges with high traffic levels on federal
highways; (ii) assist in reform of the institutional structure of road
administration and the contracting industry; (iii) strengthen the
capabilities of FHD to manage the bridges under its jurisdiction; (iv)
reduce a backlog of bridge rehabilitation and maintenance on regional
roads for up to five Participating Regions and Moscow City; and (v)
improve the administrative, technical and financial relationship of FHD
and the regions of the Russian Federation.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Federal Bridges
1.    Rehabilitation, repair, reconstruction, replacement and widening
of about 200-300 selected federal road bridges and the improvement of
2-3 interchanges on the federal highways, including grade separation.
2.    Provision of equipment, materials and supplies required for the
management of bridges.
Part B:     Bridges under Participating Regions
1.    Rehabilitation, repair, reconstruction, replacement and widening
of about 20 selected local bridges in each of the Participating Regions.
2.    Provision of vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies required
for the maintenance of bridges.
Part C:     Bridges under Moscow City
1.    Rehabilitation, repair, reconstruction, replacement and widening
of about 20 selected bridges in Moscow City.
Part D:     Technical Assistance
1.    Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower for strengthening
of the federal road and bridge management administration and system
including: (a) provision of project implementation (including selection
of federal bridges and procurement) and supervision support to the
Federal PIU and FHD; (b) designing of federal bridge works and supervision
of such works; (c) improvement of the FHD bridge management system and
extending it to regional road administrations; (d) training of federal
road and bridge staff in bridge maintenance and bridge management system;
and (e) improvement of the administrative, technical and financial
relationship of FHD and the regions of the Russian Federation.
2.    Provision of technical assistance to the Participating Regions for
strengthening of the regional road and bridge management administration
and system, including: (a) provision of project implementation (including
selection of regional bridges and procurement) and supervision support to
the Regional PIUs and the concerned regional road administrations; (b)
designing of regional bridge works and supervision of such works; and (c)
training of regional road and bridge staff in bridge maintenance and bridge
management system.
3.    Provision of technical assistance to the Department of Engineering
of Moscow City for the implementation of the Project, including: (a)
provision of project implementation (including selection of Moscow City
bridges and procurement) and supervision support to the Moscow City PIU;
(b) designing of Moscow City bridge works and supervision of such works;
and (c) training of Moscow City road and bridge staff in bridge
maintenance and bridge management system.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
Page  11
                           SCHEDULE 3
                      Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due             (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
      beginning September 15, 2001
      through September 15, 2012        14,585,000
and on March 15, 2013                   14,545,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
    Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                         Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
      Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
Page  12
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
      maturity
                              SCHEDULE 4
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Prequalification
      Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.09 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower.
      (c)   Dispute Review Board
      Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or
more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in
the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (a)   Works under Part A.1 of the Project, estimated to cost
$3,000,000 equivalent or less per contract and $10,000,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Works for each of the Participating Regions under Part B.1 of
the Project, estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $1,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.
      (c)   Works under Part C.1 of the Project, estimated to cost
$1,000,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,000,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    International Shopping
      (a)   Except as provided in paragraphs 3(a) and 4 hereof, goods
Page  13
under Part A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or
less per contract and $400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Except as provided in paragraphs 3(b) and 4 hereof, goods
for each of the Participating Regions under Part B.2 of the Project,
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract and $400,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    National Shopping
      (a)   Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof, goods under Part
A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof, goods for each of
the Participating Regions under Part B.2 of the Project, estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $100,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    Direct Contracting
      Goods under Part A.2 and B.2 of the Project which are of a
proprietary nature and costing $100,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works under Part A
hereof; (b) the first contract for works under Part C.1 hereof; and (c)
each contract for goods under Part C.4 hereof, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services for Part D of the Project shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981
(the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been
agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
Page  14
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $75,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employ-
ment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent or
above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                     Implementation Program
1.    FHD shall, under the general supervision and guidance of MOT, be
responsible for the overall coordination of Project activities and
providing information relating thereto to the Bank.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain and strengthen the Project Implementation
Unit (Dorinvest), established under the Highway Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (Loan No. 3706 RU), in the FHD for the purpose of
implementing Parts A and D.1 of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall carry out an Action Plan, comprising the
following measures, agreed with the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank:
      (a)   clearing the backlog of bridge rehabilitation and maintenance
on federal roads;
      (b)   implementing a program to improve the bridge management system
in FHD;
      (c)   improving the administrative, technical, and financial
relationship of FHD and the regions of the Russian Federation;
      (d)   strengthening the capabilities of FHD to assess environmental
impacts of bridge works; and
      (e)   improvement of bridge management in the Participating Regions.
4.    The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and D.1 of the Project in
accordance with a Project Implementation Schedule agreed with the Bank.
5.    (a)   The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank and in
accordance with selection criteria and schedule acceptable to the Bank,
select the region or regions for participation in the Project from the
following five subjects of the Russian Federation (administrative
subdivisions of the Borrower): Tver Region, Vologda Region, Leningrad
Region, Kirov Region, and Novgorod Region including any successor or
successors thereto.
      (b)   The Borrower shall select bridges and interchanges to be
included in Part A of the Project in accordance with the methodology and
criteria agreed with the Bank.
6.    Without limiting the generality of its obligation under Section II
of Schedule 4 hereof, the Borrower shall, by November 30, 1996, engage
consultants, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for
engineering design of bridge works selected under Part A of the Project
and included in the Borrower's 1997-99 bridge works schedule.
7.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, discuss with the Bank the
recommendations of the road financing study carried out under the Highway
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Loan No. 3706 RU), and, thereafter,
take measures for improving the road financing system for federal and
Page  15
regional roads.
8.    The Borrower shall, within one month after the end of each calendar
quarter, furnish to the Bank a quarterly progress report of the
implementation of Parts A and D.1 of the Project for the previous quarter
in form and detail satisfactory to the Bank.
9.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1998, carry out a mid-term
review, in consultation with the Bank, for evaluating the overall
progress in the implementation of Parts A and D.1 of the Project and
adopting such measures as may be necessary to resolve any issues in
respect thereof.
10.   The Borrower shall: (a) cause FHD to open a Project bank account
for the purposes of Parts A and D.1 of the Project with an initial
deposit in local currency of the Borrower equivalent to at least five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000); and (b) within twelve months of the
effectiveness of this Agreement increase and, until completion of
the Project, maintain the said account with a minimum balance, through
quarterly replenishments, equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000)
or such other amount as may be agreed by the Bank from time to time.
11.   The Borrower shall under the Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan
Agreements cause each of the Participating Regions, inter alia, to:
      (a)   declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, to carry
out Parts B and D.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and
engineering practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts B and D.2 of
the Project;
      (b)   within one month of the date of effectiveness of the relevant
Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement, establish and maintain
a Project Implementation Unit in its respective road administration, with
adequate staff, funding and facilities for the purpose of implementing
Parts B and D.2 of the Project.  Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, each of the Participating Regions shall assign to its
respective Regional PIU on a full-time basis at least the following: (i)
a Project manager, (ii) a bridge engineer, and (iii) a bilingual secretary;
      (c)   carry out Parts B and D.2 of the Project in accordance with
a Project Implementation Schedule agreed with the Borrower and the Bank;
      (d)   select bridges to be included in Part B of the Project in
accordance with the methodology and criteria agreed with the Borrower
and the Bank;
      (e)   without limiting the generality of its respective obligation
under Section II of Schedule 1 hereof, engage consultants, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank: (i) within two
months of the date of effectiveness of the relevant Participating Regions
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, for strengthening the capacity of its
respective Regional PIU; and (ii) within four months of the date of
effectiveness of the relevant Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, for engineering design of bridge works selected under Part B
of the Project and included in its respective bridge works schedule;
      (f)   within one month after the end of each calendar quarter,
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a quarterly progress report of the
implementation of Parts B and D.2 of the Project for the previous quarter
in form and detail satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
      (g)   after one year of the date of effectiveness of the relevant
Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement, carry out a review, in
consultation with the Borrower and the Bank, for evaluating the overall
progress in the implementation of Parts B and D.2 of the Project and
adopting such measures as may be necessary to resolve any issues in
respect thereof;
      (h)   within one month of the date of effectiveness of the relevant
Page  16
Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement, open a Project bank
account for the purposes of Parts B and D.2 of the Project with an
initial deposit in local currency of the Borrower equivalent to at least
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) and, until completion of the
Project, maintain the said account with a minimum balance, through
quarterly replenishments, equivalent to the said amount or such other
amount as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank from time to time;
      (i)   duly perform all its obligations under its Participating
Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement and except as the Borrower and the
Bank may otherwise agree, not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its
Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof;
      (j)   exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank with regard to
the progress of Parts B and D.2 of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under the relevant Participating Regions Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
      (k)   promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B
and D.2 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by it of its obligations under its Participating
Regions Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
12.   The Borrower shall under the Moscow City Subsidiary Loan Agreement
cause Moscow City, inter alia, to:
      (a)   declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, to carry
out Parts C and D.3 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and engineering
practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Parts C and D.3 of the Project;
      (b)   within one month of the date of effectiveness of the Moscow
City Subsidiary Loan Agreement, establish and maintain a Project
Implementation Unit in its Engineering Department, with adequate staff,
funding and facilities for the purpose of implementing Parts C and D.3
of the Project.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Moscow
City shall assign to its PIU on a full-time basis at least the following:
(i) a Project manager; (ii) a bridge engineer; and (iii) a bilingual
secretary;
      (c)   carry out Parts C and D.3 of the Project in accordance with
a Project Implementation Schedule agreed with the Borrower and the Bank;
      (d)   select bridges to be included in Part C of the Project in
accordance with the methodology and criteria agreed with the Borrower
and the Bank;
      (e)   without limiting the generality of its obligations under
Section II of Schedule 1 hereof, engage consultants, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank: (i) within two
months of the date of effectiveness of the Moscow City Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, for strengthening the capacity of the Moscow City PIU; and
(ii) within four months of the date of effectiveness of the Moscow City
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, for engineering design of bridge works
selected under Part C of the Project and included in Moscow City's
bridge works schedule;
      (f)   within one month after the end of each calendar quarter,
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a quarterly progress report of
the implementation of Parts C and D.3 of the Project for the previous
quarter in form and detail satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
      (g)   after one year of the date of effectiveness of the Moscow
City Subsidiary Loan Agreement, carry out a review, in consultation
with the Borrower and the Bank, for evaluating the overall progress in
the implementation of Parts C and D.3 of the Project and adopting such
measures as may be necessary to resolve any issues in respect thereof;
Page  17
      (h)   within one month of the date of effectiveness of the Moscow
City Subsidiary Loan Agreement, open a Project bank account for the
purposes of Parts C and D.3 of the Project with an initial deposit in
local currency of the Borrower equivalent to at least five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000) and, until completion of the Project,
maintain the said account with a minimum balance, through quarterly
replenishments, equivalent to the said amount or such other amount as
may be agreed by the Borrower and the Bank from time to time;
      (i)   duly perform all its obligations under the Moscow City
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Moscow City
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof;
      (j)   exchange views with the Borrower and the Bank with regard
to the progress of Parts C and D.3 of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under the Moscow City Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan; and
      (k)   promptly inform the Borrower and the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts C
and D.3 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by Moscow City of its obligations under the Moscow
City Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 6
                        Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Category" means: (i) Categories 1(a),
2(a), and 3(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement in respect of Parts A and D.1 of the Project; (ii)
Categories 1(b), 2(b) and 3(b) set forth in said table in respect of
Parts B and D.2 of the Project; and (iii) Categories 1(c) and 3(c) set
forth in the said table in respect of Parts C and D.3 of the Project;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $5,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts A and D.1 of
the Project (Special Account A), an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in
respect of each of the Special Accounts for the respective Participating
Regions for Parts B and D.2 of the Project (Special Accounts B, C, D, E,
and F respectively), and an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 in respect
of the Special Account for Parts C and D.3, of the Project (Special
Account G), to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 in respect of Special Account A, an amount equivalent to
$300,000 each in respect of Special Accounts B, C, D, E, and F, and an
amount equivalent to $500,000 in respect of  Special Account G, until:
(i) in respect of Special Account A, the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Loan Account allocated to Categories 1(a), 2(a), and 3(a) plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A
and D.1 of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000; (ii) in respect of each of the Special Accounts B, C, D, E,
and F, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account
allocated to Categories 1(b), 2(b), and 3(b) plus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B and D.2 of the
Project for each of the Participating Regions respectively shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000; and (iii) in respect
of Special Account G, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Page  18
Loan Account allocated to Categories 1(c) and 3(c) plus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts C and D.3 of the
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits
                 into the respective Special Account at such intervals as
                 the Bank shall specify.
            (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                 other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                 this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
                 of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                 each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                 Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
                 into the respective Special Account such amount as
                 the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                 been shown by said documents and other evidence to
                 have been paid out of the respective Special Account
                 for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
                 be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
                 the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                 respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                 justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Accounts;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
Page  19
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
