Document of
The World Rank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6az /q'f- r4
Report No. 7366-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL ItPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION
PROJECT
FEBRUARY 28, 1989
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This deomeo-n h-w a resictied dbtfiboon and may be and by redpienb only Indthe perfonn"S of
teir off1ca duds.F Its co"Mb may not OffNnse be dsdoexd w+U"w Wedd Bank adwdon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Tanzania Shilling (TSh.)
US$1.00         -   TSh 95.00l/
TSh 1.00        -   USS 0.01
WEIGHTS & MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ACES    -    Assistant Commissioner For Extension Services
ACT     -    Assistant Commissioner for Training
AfDF    -    African Development Fund
AWP     -    Annual Work Program
CALD    -    Commissioner for Agriculture and Livestock Development
DALrO   -    District Agricultural and Livestock Development Officer
DEO     -    Division Extension Officer
Dis.EO  -    District Extension Officer
EEC     -    European Economic Community
ERP     -    Economic Recovery Program
EU      -    Extension Unit
FAO     -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FEIU    -    Farmers' Education and Information Unit
FEPU    -    Farmers' Ed;cation and Publicity Unit
FRG     -    Federal Republic of Germany
FSR     -    Farming Systems Research
FTC     -    Farmer Training Center
GDP     -    Gross Domestic Product
GOT     -    Government of Tanzania
IDA     -    International Development Association
IFAD         International Fund for Agriculture Development
ILO     -    International Labor Organization
L.ETI    -    Livestock Training Institute
MALD    -    Ministry for Agriculture and Livestock Development
MATI    -    Ministry of Agriculture Training Institute
M&E     -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     -    Management Information Systems
MMT     -    MALD's Management Team
NAIC    -    National Insemination Center
OES     -    Overall Evaluation System
PMD     -    Planning and Marketing Division
PS      -    Pri .-ipal Secretary
RALDO   -    Regional Agricultural autd Livestock Development Officer
SMS     -    Subject Matter Specialist
T&V     -    Training and Visit
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
VEW     -    Village Extension Worker
WFP     -    World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Tanzania                       : July 1 - June 30
l/ The exchange rate recently changed to US$1.00 - T. Sh. 120.00.
However, an analysis shows no substantial change in total project costs
results therefrom.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AMRICULTURAL AND LIVMSTOCK EXTENSION
NEfl&IILITATION PROJECT
Tale of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT & PROJECT SUMMARY                                                    (i)
I. Agricultural Sector Background
A.  Project Genesis  ........ *# ........... .  .*  ..............            1
B.  Main Country  Characteristics   .............................    1
C.  The Economy  .        .       .......................                     1
0. The Agricultural Sector                        . ..               .    3
E.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD)              5
F.  The Agriculture and Livestock Extension Services  .. .                    5
G.  IDA's Involvement, Sectoral Strategy and the Proposed Project   6
H. The Role of the Donor Community ...                                        8
II. The Project
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives. Development Stages
and Main Features ........  9
B.  Detailed Features . . ....... * ...                        ..            11
C.  Coordination and Integration with On-going
Extension Activities ........... ............  15
D.  Supply of, and Demand for, Agricultural and Livestock
Institutes Graduates  ..........          .....       ..       ...  15
III. Project Implementation
A.  Organization and Management...                                           17
B.  Introduction of a New Extension Methodology..                            17
C. Supervision of Activities                ... .                            18
D.  Linkages with other Institutions and Services    .           .18
E. Programming of Activities                   .       ...20
F.  Project Implementation Review .        ......        . .......   ...........  20
G.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluatio ni..                                 21
IV.  Cost Estimates and Financing
A. Cost Estimates    .....  .....    22
B.  Financing ............................................   ,    22
C. Procurement .Z            ..........                .. ..   24
D.  Disbursements            ...         *....                   ..         26
E.  Accounts & Audits 28... ....    .              . ......                   28
V. Benefits, Risks and Sdstainability
A. Benefits                             .........  28
B. Risks            .         ..... *....... 29
C. Sustainability                           .. . ...29
D.  Environmental Effects. ...s.......        .......... . .                30
E. Focus on Women   .            .       .. 4.44.4...                       30
VI. Agreements Reached and Recommendations   .4. ......4..........               31
This report is based on the main recommendations of the National
Task Force on the Rehabilitation of the Extension Services and on the
findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited Tanzania in April-May,
1988. The mission compr'3ed of Messrs. Keynan, Ranganathan, Mukami (IDA)
and Chettoe (Consultant).
This docurnent has a restnicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex 1.  Present, and Proposed Organizational Set-up
Annex 2. Organization and Management
Annex 3. Description or Project Area
Annex 4. Training Guidelines and Detailed Training Program
Annex 5. Consultancy Services - Terms of Reference
Annex 6. Cost Tables & Statistical Data
Annex 7. Accounting Guidelines
Annex 8.  Implementation Schedule
Annex 9. Documents Available in Project Files
MAP       TBRD No. 20852



(i)
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK  EXTENSION REHBILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:             The United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
Amount:               SDR 13.7 million (US$18.4 million)
Terms:                Standard, IDA wsth 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:      Not applicable
Financing Plan:       Government         US$ 3.2 million
AfDF               US$ 8.8 million
IDA                US$18.4 million
TOTAL              US$30.4 million
= == == === == = 
Project Description. The proposed project would strengthen Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development's (MALD) capacity to plan, carry out and
supervise extensior activities through training, logistical support and technical
assistance. The project would provide investment and recurrent expenditures for
tAe- (a) setting up of an appropriately staffed and streamlined organization and
management structure, based on a single chain of command from headquarters to the
field, and able to provide effective leadership; (b) introduction of a
cost-effective extension methodology to enhance the adoption of improved
technologies by project participants; (c) acquisition and maintenance of new or
upgraded physical infrastructure, including staff housing and training facilities,
equipment and materials, and vehicles required to enable staff to attain a higher
degree of coverage of the farming community; (d) strengthening MALD's
implementation capacity through the provision of technical assistance; and
(e) preparation of the second phase of the agricultural and livestock extension
rehabilitation process.
Benefits and Risks.   The proposed project, which would provide special attention
to youth and women, is expected to improve the delivery of technology to a large
portion of the Tanzanian farming community, which should lead to increases in:
(a) productivity and production of food and export crops; and (b) rural incomes
and employment. Main project risks include organizational difficulties, lower
than expected adoption rates of technical recommendations by farmers, and
inadequate local funding. To minimize these risks, the pro4ect: (a) would
provide for adequate technical assistance to help the rehabilitation process; and
(b) taking into consideration the results of the piA'-t operation and other donors'
experience in extension, would improve sysl.ematically the design of extension
activities to relate extension messages more closely to farmer needs, strengthen
extension-research linkages, and provide adequate staff and farmer training and
supervision. Regarding the issue of inadequate funding, assurances were received
from the GOT to provide the required budgetary resources timely and consistent
with the Public Expenditure Review.



(ii)
Total Project Costs:                                          Local   Foreign   TOTAL
- S$Million- -
A.  Extension Organization                   4.5     13.7      18.6
and Management
B.  Staff and Farmers Training               2.9      2.2       5.1
C.  Technical Assistance                    -         2.1       2.1
Total Baseline Costs I/                7.8      18.0      25.8
Physical Contingencies                  0.7       0.8       1.5
Price Contingencies                     1.1       2.0       3.1
Total Project Costs                  9.6      20.8     30.4
_/  Net of taxes and duties
Financing Plan:                                               Local   Foreign   TOTAL
…S$Million---
IDA                                     4.4      14.0      18.4
AfDF                                    2.0       6.8       8.8
GOT                                     3.2       -         3.2
9.6     20.8      30.4
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA FY           1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96
US$ Million --
Annual               3.0      2.7      2.8       3.2      2.4       1.9        1.6      0.8
Cumulative           3.0     5.7       8.5      11.7     14.1      16.0       17.6     18.4
Percentage of
Total Credit      16.3    31.0      46.2      63.6     72.6      87.0       95.7    100.0



TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRIJLTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABLITATION PROJECr
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Project Genesis
1.01     A Bank project identification mission visited Tanzania in October 1986,
and held disLassions with the Government concerning assistance for agricultural
and livestock extension. As a result of this mission, a National Task Force on
the Rehabilitation ef the Extension Services was set up in early 1987, began
project preparation on April 1987, presented its first-draft recommendations in
July 1987, and its final report in December 1987. Bank missions that visited
Tanzania for very brief periods during 1987 monitored progress and guided project
preparation. The proposed project is based on the Task Force Report, "The
Tanzania National Agriculture Extension Rehabilitation Program, Phase I Project,"
dated December 22, 1987, and the findinge of a joint IDA-African Development Fund
Appraisal Mission that visi id Tanzania in April-May, 1988. The Government
indicated during project appraisal that it is committed to introducing the
Training and Visit Extension Methodology and that it has agreed to streamline
existing Extension services through the merger of the Departments of Agriculture
and Livestock, the appointment of a Commissioner for the new Department of
Agriculture and Livestock Development, and setting up under him, of a Division for
Extension headed by an Assistant Commissioner for Extension Services. The
proposed project, which would be the first phase of a long-term program, is aimed
at introducing a new extension methodology, training staff, providing much needed
infrastructure, and developing a capacity for delivery of extenaion services.
B. Main Country Characteristics
1.02     Tanzania mainland encompasses some 945,000 sq. km., and has an estimated
population of 22.6 million (1987). Agriculture is the most important sector of
its economy. With the exception of a small area of private estates and parastatal
operations, the country is characterized by a relatively small range in farm sizes
and incomes. The majority of the farms are less than 5 ha., with the average
holding being about 1.2 ha. Good agricultural land is underutilized and a
considerable potential for incremental development exists. The topography is
varied and includes vast semi-arid plains, numerous plateaus and highlands.
Precipitation is also varied, and presents different regimes in different areas.
The country is divided into nine physiographic regions, subdivided into twenty
agro-climatic areas. These may be grouped into four main agroeconomic zones
(Table 1). Administratively, Tanzania mainland is divided intn 20 Regions, 110
Districts, 500 Divisions, and about 2,200 Wards, each encompassing 2-5 villages.
C. The Economy
1.03      At Independence in 1961, Tanzania was one of the poorest countries in
the world, almost solely dependent on subsistence agriculture
and a few estate crops, with a very small industrial base and a limited
number of educated and trained personnel. In the first six years after



-2 _
NM*a1 AhgdadUral ad Utiintod& jtmmiam 3dWMidkt1mta Izojec
TMhUR 1: IhIn iext=e of Mwe lcnd Z7w  at Tbuina Vnlad"
I Zorm  ua1a   ~Specific Features
Ciaracteristic               I            I               Pmeetative Reglos
Features         Rainfall      I)aLinant   Mta
_______________   --              Fuod  Crops   Activity
Sed-arid central    LemS than    SoW =   Uvestock    lwland areas in  odc   Sl,ngid&,
'   area             500 m        Millet                 Aa a  I -
maize
II        Most Oastal areas   500-1000.   Pady         Agriculture, Mtwra, Lidl, 0mt,
Composi1tes Fisey.      mragaa  md Tap.
maim      *<Ltry
ilI        Most of the mstem  1000-150 taa  Cassava   Intensdve    Mmmza, ?hIra, Sh!nyanga, Tabora,
areas                             Qinposites agricdture. Kimoam ad Rura.
M         keepiz  of
swet      cattle,
Pbtatoes  goats, ad
poultry
IV        Most blgaid areas  Above          Plnta      Agriculture, Alostall aU e higlgands around
1500 am     Ryrid      dairy,       KilTonjaro, kusha, Iringa,
"mime      keepLag-*f    wttm, itMeya, amd Tanp.
Pbtatoes   goats,
sheep. and
cattle.



- 3 -
Independence, Tanzania relied largely on market forces and stresse1 the
objectives of growth in per capita income and national self-sufficiency in skilled
manpower. With the enunciation of the Arusha Declaration in PT67, however,
development policy changed and became directed towards establishing a socialist
society, with greater emphasis on broad-based rural development, domestic
self-reliance and social services. To accomplish these goals, the Arusha
Declaration emphasized that the State, w.th guidance from the Party, should play
the leading role, especially in the reform and creation of appropriate
institutions. This led in the late 1960s and early 1970s to the nationalization
of large-scale industry, commerce and finance, the formation of Ujamaa (communal)
villages, and the replacement of farmers cooperatives with State-run crop
marketing authorities responsible for all aspects of collection, processing and
marketing of Tanzania's main export crops. The Government also embarked upon an
ambitious program of industrialization based upon import substitution and the
creation of heavy industries.
1.04      The Tanzanian economy then entered a period of economic decline
from which it is only now starting to recover. While the overall downturn in the
economy was caused in part by a series of external factors, including
successive droughts, the rapid increase in oil prices, the collapse of the East
African Community and the war with Uganda, the crisis also drew attention to some
of the underlying weaknesses in the management of the economy. These included
inadequate incentives and resource allocation to t: e agricultural sector, an
overly ambitious and uneconomic industrialization strategy, excessive
administrative controls over economic activity, and continued growth in the size
of the public sectcr without due regard to the limited financial and
administrative capacity available. Between 1978 and 1982, GDP grew by only 0.4%
per annum, with agricultural and industrial output declining by 2.9% and 16.6% per
annum, respectively. Inflation accelerated, the fiscal situation deteriorate.i
sharply after 1979, with deficits averaging about 16% of GDP, and exports and
imports declined significantly. By 1982, import volumes were 32% below their 1978
level and 24% below their level in the early 197?s. Throughout the early 1980s,
the economy continued to decline uespite the introduction of various adjustment
programs.
1.05      It was not until June 1986, with the introduction of the Economic
Recovery Program (ERP), that the reform measures became strong enough to have a
positive impact. Since then, reforms have been introduced in the areas of
exchange rate, foreign exchange allocation, trade policy, prices, fiscal and
monetary policies, and interest rates, as well as in the key sectors of
agriculture, industry and transport. In support of thesq measures, an 18-month
standby arrangement of SDR64.2 million was approved by the IMF on August 28, 1986,
and a multi-sector rehabilitation credit was approved by the Bank on November 20,
1986, which incorporated financing from IDA and the African Facility (about US$100
million), and attracted Special Joint Financing (about US$50 million) by the
Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
D. The Agricultural Sector
Overall Structure
1.06      Agriculture is the largest sector in the Tanzanian economy.  It provides
40-50% of GNP, 75% of exports, and over 80% of employment. The main cash crops
are coffee, cotton, sisal, tobacco, tea, cashewnut, pyrethrum and cloves, and the
principal food crops are maize, sorghum, millet, rice, grain legumes, cassava,



C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
banana, wheat, and sugarcane. Smallholder production (over 83% of total holdings)
dominates the sector. ?rivate estate production is important in tea and sisal,
and government estates contribute significantly to rice, wheat, sisal, sugar and
meat production. Some areas of Tanzania have relatively low rainfall and are,
therefore, subject to drought. However, even in areas of reliable rainfall,
overall population density is low (19 per sq. km). Good agricultu-al land is
underutilized, and only about 6 million ha out of 39 million ha of arable land are
under cultivation.
Performance
1.07      During the two decades following Thdependence, the farming community was
backed by a vigorous extension service, capable of extending appropriate agro-
technologies. Therefore, a rapid expansion of smallholder export crops took
place, and the volume of marketed coffee, cotton, cashew and tobacco doubled
between 1960/61 and 1966/67 and doubled again by 1973/74 for cashew and tobacco.
Self-sufficiency in food-grain production was also achieved by the late 1960s.
Eowever, the adoption of several new government policies in the late 1960s
(including villagization, dissolution of cooperatives, establishment of parastatal
export and food crop marketing monopolies, closure of private shops, confinement
of supply of agricultural inputs to a few agencies, and encouragement of heavy
industry at the expense of smallholder agriculture) led to a steep decline in food
and eport crop production by the late 1970s and into the current decade. Between
1978 and 1985, real agricultural GDP grew at only 1.0% per annum, well below the
corresponding population growth rate of 3.4% p.a. Berween 1976/77 and 1985/86,
the production of major export crops declined by 8% per annum, and agricultural
export revenues declined by 57% from a peak of US$426.1 million in 1977 to
US$184.1 million in 1985, which has had a devastating effect on the overall
economy.
Government Policy and Strategy
1.08      The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy remain food
self-sufficiency and improving national nutrition standards; restoring
agricultural exports to former peaks and then expanding them; and improving rural
living standards. To attain these objectives and to reverse the disappointing
performance of recent years, the Government has, since 1986, introduced major
reforms in agricultural strategy. These form part of the ERP (Para 1.05). In
addition to a major devaluation and continuing real adjustmeats in the excharge
rate, which have benefitted the producers of export crops, the Government has:
(a) increased producer prices in real terms; (b) liberalized tne marketing of
foodgrains; (c) re-established coopetatives to take over parastatals'
responsibilities for crop marketing; (d) liberalized the marketing of some minor
export crops; (e) permitted several private estates and cooperatives to export
iArectly instead of through marketing boards; (f) privatized several previously
expropriated cofree, tea and sisal estates; and (g) started to "deconfine" input
supplies and distribution. These measures have already led to increases in food
grain supply, and the improvement in export crop production incentives, together
with favorable weather, have almost restored cotton production to its pre-crisis
level.
1.09      Despite the policy changes, some critical bottlenecks to the recovery of
agricultural production and exports remain. Th.ese include: (a) the lack of
foreign exchange to finance the rehabilitation of agricultural enterprises;



- 5 -
(b) the inadequate capability of the banking system to channel term and seasonal
lending to the agricultural sector; (c) the serious deterioration of the research
and extension services; (d) severe rural and rural-urban transport constraints;
(e) persisting shortages of critical inputs, implements, and consumer goods; and
(f) land tenure problems which tend to discourage long-term private on-farm
investment, and the employment of farm labor. The Government realizes that in the
short-term, pricing, marketing and input policy changes will have the greatest
impact on agricultural production. However, to sustain and expand production,
attention must be given to overcoming the remaining constraints. The IDA lending
program, of which this project is a key component, is designed to help the
Government in that task.
E. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD)
1 10      Between 1961 and 1985, there have been several changes in government
poiicies affecting MALD. One major change occurred in 1972 du.ring the
decentralization of development-oriented sectors, including Agriculture and
Livestock. During this period, many departments were merged, and all develop=-:-'
functions were vest:ed with Regional Development Directors. In 1983, the prc
was reversed to the pre-1972 situation, with control, policy and management
guidance, and supervision carried out by or from headquarters. During the last 25
years, the agricultural sector has been .qsociated with a variety of other
sectors. This is reflected in changes in the Ministry's names: Agriculture and
Cooperative Development; Agricuiture, Forestry and Wildlife; Agriculture, Food and
Cooperatives; Agriculture, iatural Resources and Livestock Development; and since
1983, Agriculture and Livestock Development. Major national policies like
villagization, dissolution of cooperatives, establishment of parastatals and the
like have influenced some of these changes. Moreover, there have been internal
organizational changes in MALD with respect to Divisions and also within the main
Divisions. At one time, Agricultural Extension was a Division. Now it is divided
between the Crops and Livestock Development Divisions. MALD, which was set up in
1983, was last reorganized in 1985 when six divisions were formed, namely:
Agriculture; Livestock Development; Planning and MarketIng; Irrigation
Development; Research and Training; and Manpower Development and Administration.
F. The Agriculture and Livestock Extension Services
Organization and Management
1.11      Although farming in Tanzania is dominated by mixed livestock/crop
systems, in the present set-up of MALD, agriculture and livestock extension are
carried out by two separate services. Extension activities have been neglected
and both services suffer from: (a) lack of recurrent and investment funding which
is responsible for inadequate facilities and equipment; (b) deficient supervision,
monitoring, and evaluation of activities; (c) weak or non-existent training;
(d) poor linkages with other services such as research, input supply, and land
management; (e) low staff motivation; and (f) an inefficient structure due to weak
leadership and fragmentation. Moreover, the present organizationalset-up causes
overlaps and gaps between the two uncoordinated services (crops and livestock).
There is no efficient policy guidance, coordination of activity, or long-term
planning. The roles, responsibilities, and attainable objectives for both
services are not well defined. There is no steady flow of technical information
and no feedback on problems identified in the field. Mechanisms and procedures to
allow comprehensive long-range extension plans to be prepared, supervised and



- 6 -
annually updated are not in place. The scarce rinancial and human resources are
dissipated, due to a lack of experienced management.
1.12    Because of the lack of training, non-existent updating of know-how, weak
supervision of activities, and lack of interaction with the research community,
the technical capacity of most staff is low. Contacts between research and
extension, and between extension, research, and farmers rarely occur. Moreover,
as the research community is neither publishing nor promoting the use of specific
technical packages, there is little incentive for extension staff and farmers to
develop stronger linkages with the research system, and there is no feedback of
farmers' problems to the research community. At present, there is no extension of
appropriate messages for small (subsistence) farmers; i.e., messages which will
enable them significantly to increase income within their existing circumstances
and means. However, based on unprocessed research results which have yet to be
evaluated and published, the planned National Agricultural and Livestock Research
Project is expected to formulate such messages and to make them available to the
farming community.
Funding and Staffing
1.13      In the aggregate, combined funding for extension activities (crops and
livestock) has declined in real terms as a percentage of agrict,tural GDP from
0.352 in 1984/85 (the first full year after the two ministries were unified) to
0.22% in 1987/88. Further, uneven quartarly disbursements of funds severely
affect orderly development of activities. Moreover, the low level and
unreliability of funding, coupled with declining emolument allocations,
drastically affect staff morale. The shortage of foreign exchange is also a major
problem. Extension staff do not have necessary fuel and usable vehicles for au
adequate coverage of allocated populations, and lack essential supplies, equipment
and spare parts. Overall, the two services have some 5,850 field technicians
(certificate and diploma holders) of '1!um about 3,650 have responsibility for
crops ard 2,200 for livestock. The ratio of 18/1 between these field technicians
and subject matter specialists (University graduates) is satisfactory.
1.14      Staff motivation and morale are low due to resou-ce constraints,
management shortcomings, unsystematic and delayed promotions, and lack of
encouragement of technical competence, and professional performance. Terms of
service do not compensate for these difficulties. Field extension workers, left
without training, supervision and transport, and in charge of areas of
responsibility encompassing in many cases 3-5 villages, are in most cases
d'moralized. They mainly stay "on-call" in their houses and accomplish very
:ittle.  Moreover, there is not much communication concerning farmers' problems
and constraints upwar4s through the extension structure to MALD managem_nt.
Remedial measures, inciuding improved terms of service, training, efficient staff
evaluation and timely promotion are needed to ensure a motivated and enthusiastic
extension service. Measures to initiate improvements in these fields would form
an integral part of the project (para. 2.14).
G. IDA's Involvement, Sectoral Strategy and the Proposed Project
1.15      Between Independence and the late 1970s, agricultural projects including
integrated rural development programs, accounted for about 30% of the Bank Group's
lending program. AsFistance was provided for 18 agricultural and three rural
development proJectq consisting of US$240 million in IDA credits and US$37 million



in IBRD loans. By the end of 1980, it was apparent that- (a) production was
falling well short of projections that had been based on the early growth period.
and (b) project impiementation problems rather than being project-specific, were
common to the whole agricultural sector. Accordingly, the Bank Group stopped most
agricultural project lending, pending a careful reassessment of the sector. After
1980, lending in the agricultural sector was substantially curtailed and was
either for specific balance of payments support (Export Rehabilitation Program,
US$50 million under Credit 1133-TA), or Technical Assistance (Third and Fourth
Technical Assistance Projects, SDR1O.2 million under Credit 1206-TA and SDR9.9
million under Credit 1524-TA).
1.16      The emphasis in previous IDA agricultural assistance efforts in Tanzania
was on crop-specific projects built around agricultural parastatals and regional
development authorities. IDA support for agricultural credit was channelled
through the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank. In line with government
policy, few of these projects provided financial assistance to private
entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector. Many of these projects are now
recognized by the Government and IDA as having been unsuccessful. The principal
reasons for this record of failure include lack of recurrent inputs due to the
shortage of foreign exchange, unfavorable macroeconomic and sectoral policies, and
mismanagement and politicization of parastatals. In addition, insufficient funds,
lack of trained technical staff, and managerial deficiencies have been ubiquitous,
affecting all agricultural projects. Disbursements lagged and significant sums
were cancelled upon the closing of projects. The agricultural portfolio has been
considerably reduced as a result of the four-year lending hiatus and only eight
projects are currently under execution, two of which have been totally
redesigned. Due to the closing of several problem projects, the redesigning and
streamlining of others and recent changed in the overall policy environment, the
project portfolio has improved considerably.
1.17      At present, IDA in collaboration with other donors, is assisting
Tanzania in pursuing a revised strategy in the agricultural sector. This strategy
places emphasis on producer incentives to encourage production of basic staples
(grains particularly) for domestic consumption and cash crops for export (tea,
coffee, cashew, and coconuts). Institutional improvements are being developed to
improve the effectiveness of service delivery, and smallholders are receiving
increased attention.
1.18      This revised strategy in the agricultural sector is implemented
through a program which includes improvements in Iricing and marketing policies,
both for inputs and outputs, and improvements in agricultural services, e.g.,
credit, research and extension, marketing and distribution systems. To support
this strategy, a Multisector Rehabilitation Credit was approved by IDA in
November 1986, an Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Credit in March 1988, and a
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project in December 1988. In
addition, a Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project was appraised in December 1988,
and an Agricultural Adjustment Project is under preparation.
1.19      In 1988, the GOT recognized the deficiencies of the existing extension
set-up (paras 1.11-1.14) and decided to allocate scarce resources more efficiently
and in line with predetermined priorities, lower capital and recurrent costs,
simplify and shorten the chain of command and responsibility, and motivate staff
providing guidance to crop and livestock farmers. In order to attain these



-8-
objectives, the GOT set up the National Task Force on the Rehabilitation of the
Extension Services. The proposed rehabilitation of these services, which is part
of the core program of the Bank's operational strategy in Tanzania, clearly
complements the macro-economic objectives of the Government's Economic Recovery
Program. This Program is predicated on a significant and sustained increase in
agricultural exports, which account for most of the country's foreign exchange
earnings. While recent improvements in farmer incentives brought about by various
pricing and marketing reforms can do much to stimulate export production,
sustaining this growth on a permanent basis requires the steady flow of new and
improved technology and its delivery to farmers. Currently, improved technology
is neither extended to, nor adopted by, farmers. This accounts for the high
incidence of disease and pests and, ultimately, the low and declining yields on
the whole spectrum of crops grown in the country. Moreover, gains to be achieveu
in the next several years from sectoral and macroeconomic policy reforms are
unlikely to be sustained unless efficient extension, research, input supply and
marketing services are established. Building multidisciplinary agricultural and
research extension capabilities in Tanzania are pivotal in expanding agricultural
(crop and livestock) productivity and output, enhancing diversification, and
increasing food production and export earnings. It is a long-term process (15-20
years) and the proposed project constitutes one of its initial stages.
1.20   In 1986, MALD requested assistance from IDA to rehabilitate its extension
services. IDA, which has extensive experience worldwide in assisting countries in
streamlining and enhancing their extension services, particularly through the
introduction of the Training and Visit extension methodology, agreed to assist
MALD in this task. In Tanzania, IDA's participation would ensure that: (a) the
long-term task of building up research and extension systems able to formulate
proper agricultural techniques and to deliver them to farmers gets underway
effectively; (b) agricultural extension activities in on-going projet:ts funded by
other donors are implemented according to a common strategy, and are adequately
coordinated; and (c) the short-term agricultural growth beginning to materialize
after the implementation of pricing and marketing policy reforms is sustained over
the longer run.
H. The Role of the Donor Community
1.21   Apart from the Bank, other donors also support the agricultural sector in
Tanzanla. The European Development Fund has been assisting coLfee production and
processing since the late 1970s, while the United Kingdom and Netherlands
governments are helping to rehabilitate the cotton industry. The United Kingdom
also assists with recurrent "non-confined" imports and through the Commonwealth
Development Corporation may help to rehabilitate selected coffee estates. The
World Food Program has for several years helped the recovery of the sisal industry
through its Food for Work Program. However, there is neither a common strategy
ne,r a coordination of donors' activities in the agricultural sector, and most
donors have become increasingly concerned over the piecemeal nature of their
assistance and the lack of planning, and identification of priorities. In order
to remedy this situation, the proposed project would assist the GOT in developing
an overall strategy for, and coordination of, the donor community's agricultural
extension activities in the country (Para 2.19).



II. THE PROJECT
A.   Projec%. Rationale, Objectives, Development Stages and Main Features
Project Rationale and Objectives
2.01      Faced with declining rates of growth of agricultural production,
the GOT recognized that to attain higher growth rates, long term development
strategies of the main agricultural services had to be formulated. It also
concluded that to achieve long-term sustainable growth, it would be necessary to
strengthen the national research and extension systems in order to generate
relevant agrotechnical messages and their transfer to farmers. Moreover, the GOT
accepted that extension activities are deficient and that, if improvements are not
introduced, extension will continue to deteriorate and staff will be lost thereby
making the ultimate rehabilitation of this important service very difficult and
protracted. This is particularly important since new structures will be put in
place under the National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project and the
Veterinary Delivery System Project whith is at present under preparation. The
inter-action between the extension, veterinary and research services would enhance
their efficiencies, ultimately benefitting the agricultural sector. The GOT,
therefore, requested IDA's assistance and guidance in the preparation of a project
to set up a multidisciplinary, vigorous, well-focussed, cost-effective extension
service with consistent direction, technical support and stable funding. In this
context, IDA helped MALD in setting up and operating an extension pilot operation
based on the Training and Visit (T&V) System, which is currently being carried out
in five districts within the project area. This pilot operation encompasses about
50,000 farming families, divided irto some 6,500 groups, and served by about 105
village extension workers (VEWs). Orientation and training courses were held for
all involved staff at regional, district and field levels before pilot inception.
Subsequenrly, VEWs were allocated to villages, farmer groups formed, visit
schedules prepared, and extension impact points drawn up. VEW fortnightly
training sessions and visits to farmer groups were held with reasonable regularity
and were well attended and accepted. However, due to lack of funds and
ineffective logistic support, there were fewer than expectpd monthly workshops for
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), ineffective contacts between research,
extension and farmers, and inadequate supervision of activities. Despite these
shortcomings, and while it is still early to evaluate the pilot operation
performance and impact, initial findings, as well as the findings of a brief
review of other donors' experience in agricultural extension in Tanzania, (para
2.19) and in other countries (e.g., Kenya) seem to suggest in general that the T&V
system is very efficient as a management tool, develops stronger and more
efficient linkages with the research community and induces research to develop
farmer oriented programs. The short experience of the pilot operation in the
project area seems to suggest that farmers are eager to receive technical support
in an organized manner and that the T&V extension methodology is feasible and cost
effective in the Tanzanian context, if staff training is upgraded, and on the
condition that most of the existing impediments (Paras 1.11-1.12) are removed and
the extension services unified. Based on above results, IDA agreed to assist the
GOT in the rehabilitation of its extension service.
2.02      The proposed project would enable the GOT to provide the farming
community with adequate extension messages to enhance agricultural
production, productivity, and rural incomes (Para 2.03). It represents the



- 10 -
first phase of a long-term process to establish an efficient, cost-effective, and
sustainable agricultural (crop and livestock) extension service on the Tanzanian
mainland. The project will focus on: (a) gradual but steady and well planned
merging of crop and livestock extension services into a multidisciplinary system;
(b) strengthening of extension management, organization, coordination, and
supervision of activities; and (c) upgrading and/or provision of necessary human
resources, physical infrastructure and logistic support.
2.03      In concurrence with the National Agriculture Policy, the project will
focus on food production for self sufficiency, and export crops grown by
smallholders. Initially, major food crops, livestock, and a few important export
crops such as cotton, coffee, and cashewnuts will receive particular attention.
In view of the low production levels and resour e constraints of small scale
farmers, low cost and simple technology will receive higher priority in messages
tailored to farmers. Moreover, the project will incorporate lessons learnt from
past or ongoing projects and programs having a bearing on extension services
(Paras 2.19-2.20). In this context, it is worth mentioning that extension
components of all on-going agriculture and livestock projects will be merged into
one extension delivery system which would be backed by MALD specialized staff at
all levels. Donor-assisted projects which are coordinated by MALD would be
implemented in future in accordance with this new framework for extension.
(Para 2.19).
Project Development Stages and Main Features
2.04      Project Area.  The project, over an 8 year period, will encompass 12 out
of the 20 administrative regions of the Tanzanian mainland, and serve about
2.8 million farm families (IBRD Map 20852). The 12 regions include 55 districts,
some 295 divisions and 1,340 wards, and about 5,230 villages. It will take 4 years
to cover all 12 regions and reach the target population. Project activities will
concentrate on high-priority areas within the various regions, and the fact that a
region is included in the project area in a given year does not mean that it will
be fully covered during the same year. During the first year, project activities
will be initiated in the regions of rabora, Singida and Dodoma to be followed by
Kagera, Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions in the second year. In the third year,
project activities will be extended to Rukwa, Shinyanga and Mwanza regions, and
finally in the fourth year the Mtwara, Lindi, and Morogoro regions will be added.
The selection of the project area, and the timing of the incorporation of the
regions in the project, are based on various factors, the most important of which
are high density of small-scale farmers (70% of total), relatively good production
potaptial under rainfed conditions in large parts of the project area, relatively
high proportion of food (80% of sorghum/millet, 75% of rice, and 55% of cassava)
and export crops (95% of cashew, 90% of cotton and 40% of coffee) grown in
Tanzania, and relatively low assistance provided by other donors (Annex 3,
Description of Project Area).
2.05      Project Summary Description.  The proposed project would strengthen the
MALD capacity to plan, implement and supervise extension activities through the:
(a) establishment of a simple streamlined, adequately staffed organization
and management structure. A single chain of command from headquarters
to the field would: (i) provide leadership; (ii) deal with the
unification and rehabilitation of extension activities; and (iii) set up
and maintain effective linkages with the research community;



- 11 -
(b) introduction of an extension system based on the T&V extension
methodology, and provision of necessary training and supervision
of activities conducive to the establishment of an adequate message
delivery system to enhance adoption of improved technologies by project
participants; and
(c) strengthening MALD's planning and implementation capacity, and aesisting
in the preparation of the the second phase of the rehabilitation of the
agricultural and livestock extension services, through the provision of
technical assistance in specific fields.
Due to the poor condition of existing facilities and infrastructure, the project
would also provide and/or upgrade necessary key staff housing, training
facilities, vehicles, equipment, and materials requ'red to enable staff to attain
a higher coverage of the fanning community and to facilitate practical
demonstration of proven agricultural practices in farmer fields.
B. Detailed Features
Organization and Management Structure.
2.06      Organization Restructuring of MALD Headquarters.  The proposed
rehabilitation of the extension services will be carried out in conjunction with
the unification of the Agriculture and Livestock Divisions of MALD, and the
creation of a single Agriculture and Livestock Development Division, headed by a
Commissioner (CALD) reporting directly to the Principal Secretary (PS) MALD
(Annex 1). The Commissioner would be assisted by a number of Assistant
Commissioners. One of them, the Assistant Commissioner for Extension Services
(ACES) would also head an Extension Unit (EU). The CALD and ACES would be
supported by MALD's Management Team (MMT). In order to enable timely project
implementation, CALD and ACES have been nominated and the EU has been set up.
Assurances were received that any material changes to the status and terms of
reference of the EU, and the ACES would be made in agreement with IDA
(Para 6.01 (a)).
2.07      Field Organizational Structure.  Under the proposed organizational
structure some of the existing posts would be abolished and new posts created.
Specifically, the post of Regional Agriculture and Livestock Development Officer
(RALDO) would take the place of existing Regional Agriculture and Livestock
Development Officers, and the District Agricultural and Livestock Development
Officer (DALDO) would take the place of existing District Agriculture an Livestock
Development Officers. At the village level, administrative duties and input
distribution functiors would be carried out by the input unit and other staff, and
would be gradually taken away from the Village Extension Workers (VEWs) to allow
them to focus solely on transfer of technology to farmers. Moreover, the VEW
would extend technical recommendations for the whole farm, i.e., for agriculture
and livestock. Each VEW would function in an area with 800-1000 farm families, or
in 1-3 villages depending on population density, distances between villages,
settlement patterns, and farm types. Where cropping intensities are htigher and/or
crops of high economic importance are grown, extension involvement would be
intensified and the VEW: farmer ratio would be reduced to 1:500-600. At the
division level, Division Extension Officers (DEO) would be posted; each DEO would
be in charge of about 3-4 wards, and would assist and supervise 8-12 VEWs.



- 12 -
2.08      Under the proposed organizational structure, the DALDO would be
supported by a District Extension Officer (Dis.EO) and by a group of three to five
Subject Matter Specialists (S4S) who would assume specialized roles in message
formulation, training of staff, and maintaining linkages with research. The
district SMSs would include, according to needs, experts in Crop Production, Plant
Protection, Irrigation, Livestock Production and Livestock Health. The DALDO who
would be responsible for overall operation of extension, would also deal with
input-related issues and administration of MALD activities, including the
Veterinary Delivery Service. Therefore, the sup vision and guidance of Ward
Veterinary Centres would rest with him. Similar to the DALDO, the RALDO would be
respcnsible for the region under his/her jurisdiction. He/She would be assisted
by a Regional Extension Officer and by three to five SMSs, according to needs
(Annex 2).
2.09      At present, there are some 3,270 field extension workers at the
division, ward and village levels in the project area. An additional 850 staff,
located at the regional and district levels, are mainly dealing with extension
activities. Under the project, about 3,000 VEWs, 300 Division Extension Officers,
and 350 SMSs and other degree holders would be needed. Therefore, there are an
adequate number of officers available within MALD, and no new staff recruitment is
envisaged for division, district, and regional levels. However, during t"he first
year of the project, some 140 vacant positions in the project area would be filled
out of the existing (410) Agriculture/Livestock Field Assistants. Moreover,
during the first project years, reallocation of VEWs will take place all over the
project area, and particularly in the regions of Rukwa, Arusha, Morogoro, Mwanza
and Tabora in order to attain the ratios detailed in Para 2.07 above. Redundant
staff would be transferred to non-project areas and/or separated from the
service. This reallocation might be translated into savings in personnel
emoluments and capital costs since some 400-600 extension workers and support
staff would become redundant. At negotiations, assurances were received that the
Government would: (a) until September 30, 1989, maintain its present establishment
for the agricultural and livestock extension services; (b) by September 30, 1989,
furnish to IDA the revised establishment for the Extension Service in accordance
with MALD's new structure; and (c) thereafter maintain this establishment at that
level, with the recruitment of additional extension staff from fresh
diploma/certificate holders being offset by attrition (Para 6.01(b)).
Extension Staff and Farmer Training
2.10      The efficiency of the rehabilitated extension services will depend on
sustained and regular training of staff and farmers. Therefore, local and foreign
training costs, as well as the cost of rehabilitating some of the infrastructure
of four Training Centers, upgrading the equipment of the Farmers' Education and
Publicity Unit (FEPU) of MALD, and providing a short-term training specialist
would be financed by the project. In the context of the rehabilitated extension
service, a system of skill-focussed, continuous, practical training for staff by
SMSs who would keep abreast with the latest research results, will be set up
(Annex 4). District SMSs, assisted by agricultural and livestock research staff
and regional SMSs, would train VEWs every fortnight and would organize short
courses in specific fields. Training locations in a district would be fixed to
involve minimal travelling for VEWs and DEOs. Moreover, farmers, and especially
youth and women who play a vital role in agriculture (Para 5.10), would receive
special attention under the project. Existing Farmer Training Centers (FTCs)
would, therefore, focus on rural youth and women to bring them into the stream of



- 13 -
technology adoption. Moreover, a restricted number of selected innovative farmers
would participate in short subject matter courses in the FTCs, to enable them to
understand the rationale of recommendations, get acquainted with new technology
innovations and speed up their transfornation from subsistence to commercial
farmers.
2.11      Each year, with the inception of the budget planning process, the ACES
would issue detailed instructions to extension field staff for the preparation of
the Farmer and v iff Annual Training Plans. These plans, which would include
short, refreshe., orientation courses, bi-monthly training, and monthly SMS
workshops, would be reviewed and consolidated at the district and regional levels,
with the active participation of existing training coordinators, and farwarded to
the ACES. At headquarters, the ACES and the MALD's Management Team, in close
coordination with the Assistant Commissioner for Training (ACT), who is in charge
of the field training coordinators, would review and approve these annual training
plans before their inclusion in the project Annual Work Program (Para 3.09).
2.12      The ACT, who is responsible for organizing and coordinating all training
activities in MALD, would also be responsible for the formulation of MALD's
manpower training strategies. He would, for this purpose, organize an annual
meeting with staff of all training institutes. The representatives of the
Agriculture and Livestock Development Division, Research and Training Division,
and other institutions, such as the Sokoine University of Agriculture and the
National Coconut Development Program, would participate in the above annual
meeting to discuss the MALD annual training program, and whenever necessary, its
manpower training strategies. Moreover, the ACT would organize pre-seasonal
training workshops for trainers, in each agroclimatic zone (Para 3.06).
2.13      In order to enhance message transfer to farmers, the Farmers' Education
and Information Unit (FEIU), (at present, the Farmers' Education and Publicity
Unit), of MALD will also be strengthened under the project in the areas of radio
broadcasting, printing equipment, and audio visual aids and vans. Mass media
would be used to increase farmers' awareness of the availability of technology.
The FEIU would produce charts, slide sets, and leaflets to be used by VEWs during
their on-farm visits, and by farmers. Lach region's needs would be carefully
assessed and extension aids produced accordingly.
Technical Assistance and Long-Term Extension Rehabilitation
2.14      The Extension Unit (EU) would be supported during the first five years
of the project by an Agricultural Extension Methodologist, and various specialists
in Procurement, Finance, and Monitoring and Evaluation. Moreover, short-term
consultants in specialized areas such as administration, manpower development,
training, communication, production of audio-visual aids, and specific subject
matter would be hired to fine-tune the capabilities of key local extension
personnel at the field and MALD headquarters. It is worth mentioning in this
context that to ensure the enhancement of staff motivation (Para 1.14), a
short-term consultant would assist MALD in the revision and improvement of the
existing career structure, terms of service and staff evaluation and promotion
procedures. Overall, 52 manmonths have been earmarked for short-term, and 10
man-years for long-term consultant services (Annex 6). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that consultants would be selected and hired on terms and
conditions agreeable to IDA (Para 6.01(c)).



- 14 -
2.15      Based on the experience gained during the implementation of the proposed
project, and on the results of the project implementation review (Para. 3.10). the
preparation of a second phase of the rehabilitation process would be started in
Year 5 of the present project. The follow-on project would cover the remaining 8
regions of the country and would provide, whenever necessary, additional resources
to enhance the operational efficiency of the first phase. A lump sum of
US$200,000 has been earmarked for this purpose. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the terms of reference of the second phase preparation exercise
would be agreed with IDA (Para 6.01(d)).
Provision of Physical Infrastructure, Vehicles, Equipment and Materials
2.16      Physical Infrastructure.  Since rental houses at ward/division levels
are not available, the project would finance the construction of about 300
low-cost simple houses. These DEO houses would also be used as home-offices;
therefore, no separate offices for DEO would be needed. Because most farmers
value the input of the extension service, and in order to reduce costs, it seems
feasible to enlist village labor to build VEWs and DEOs houses. Moreover, in
order to implement the project training program, given the fact that existing
facilities in most training institutes are inadequate, physical infrastructure
(hostels and classes), and equipment (furniture, and audio-visual) would be
improved and/or provided to four of these training centers. These would include
the facilities in MATI-Mtwara, LITI-Mpwapwa, MATI-Ukiriguru and MATI-Ilonga.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that detailed rehabilitation plans of
these facilities would be included in the project Annual Work Program
(Para 6.01(e)).
2.17      Vehicles, Materials, and Equipment.  The eight-year project would
provide 5,375 bicycles to VEWs, 300 motorcycles to DEOs, 220 to district SMSs, and
55 to district monitoring and evaluation enumerators. The bicycles and
motorcycles would be given on loan repayable in monthly installments, and would be
owned by the staff. Vehicles would be provided to regional and district extension
officers, and each region would also be provided with an audio-visual mobile
unit. The MALD headquarters vehicle fleet would also be upgraded to erable senior
officers to visit the project area as needed. Overall, some 97 4-WD vehicles
would be provided to the rehabilitated extension service. In addition, the
MATI-Mtwara, MATI-Ilonga, MATI-Ukiriguru, LITI-Mpwapwa Training Centers would be
provided with one bus each.
2.18      DEOs and VEWs would be provided with extension kits.  Moreover, some 600
veterinary kits would be provided to ward/division level veterinary centers to
improve the supportive activity of animal health care in the DEO/VEWs operational
areas. District and regional levels would be provided with appropriate
audio-visual equipment to facilitate monthly training activities and, whenever
necessary, with adequate furniture to enable the carrying out of monthly workshops
and fortnightly training. FEPU's equipment would also be upgradeA -- well as the
laboratory and land-use equipment of the Training Centers in MATI-Mtwara,
MATI-Ilonga, MATI-Ukiriguru and LITI - Mpwapwa. In addition, MALD headquarters
would be provided with additional office equipment, word processors and
micro-computers (Annex 6).



- 15 -
C.  Coordination and Integration with On-going Extension Activities
2.19      The MALD is currently involved in the operation of some 176 agriculture
and livestock production-related projects which either primarily focus on
extension or have extension components. No systematic evaluation of the impact of
extension activities in these projects has been carried out. Therefore, during
project preparation, past and present extension experience in these projects was
briefly reviewed by MALD and the Bank, and the main lessons learnt were taken into
consideration during project design. Moreover, MALD concluded during this
exercise that because these projects lack common extension strategy, extension
activities under existing projects and programs should be coordinated with the
proposed national project; and an informal donors' Agricultural and Livestock
Extension Coordination Committee chaired by IDA was set up for this purpose.
Coordination of activities in existing projects would be easily achieved since
MALD is the implementing agency for the majority of these projects, and only some
fourteen externally funded ones would require inter-ministerial coordination
involving the ministries of Cooperatives and Local Government, Finance, Lands and
Natural Resources, Trade and Industries, and MALD (Table 2).
2.20      The MALD's Management Team chaired by the PS (Paras 2.06 and 3.02) would
also be in charge of setting up and implementing national extension policies and
strategies aimed at coordinating activities carried out under different programs
and projects and the proposed National Agricultural and Livestock Extension
Rehabilitation Project. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) during the first project year, extension strategies and coordination policies
and me_hanisms would be designed, in close collaboration with IDA and AfDF,
discussed and agreed upon with IDA and other donors and ministries involved, and
included in the first project Annual Work Program; and (b) coordination of
extension activities in on-going agricultural development projects would be
initiated in the second year. of the project (Para 6.01(f)).
D. Supply of, and Demand for, Agricultural and
Livestock Institutes Graduates
2.21      Agricultural training is, at present, carried out under the supervision
of the Division of Research and Training of MALD. Certificate and diploma
programs take two years to complete, and are conducted at 16 training institutes,
namely, five -ivestock Training Institutes (LITIs), nine Ministry of Agriculture
Training Institutes (MATIs), and one National Artificial Insemination Center
(NAIC). Certificates are provided in Crop or Livestock Husbandry and Artificial
Insemination; while diplomas are provided in Dairy Cattle Husbandry, Animal
Health, Meat Inspection, Range Management, Tse Tse Control, Animal Production,
Farm Management, Agro-Mechanization, Irrigation, Land Use Planning and Crop
Production. While certificate holders are usually posted at the village level,
diploma holders are posted at ward, division and district levels, and university
degree holders at district and regional levels, mainly as SMSs.
2.22      Because the present Agricultural and Livestock Extension Services will
be merged into one extension system, MALD would have to look at existing training
programs and at the supply of, and demand for, agriculture and livestock institute
graduates in order to bring supply and demand in line. The MALD would,



- 16 
Tanzania
Rktloual Aricultural and Livestock EesonRehabilitation Project
Table 2. ftternally Funded ProJects with Sizable Exten ion Cimponets
Project/Prograummegina                                Financing2
1. Tanga Integrated         Tanga                    Federal Republic
Rural Development                                 of Germany (FRG)
ProJect (TIRDEP)
2. National CAiconut        Lindi, Mtwara, Tanga    World Bank
Development Program      PNani, Dar-es-Salaam    and FRG
(NCDP)
3. Cashew Production and    Lindi, M1twara, Pwani
Improvement Project      Dar-es-Salaam and Tanga World Bank
(CPIP)
4. Dairy Project            Kilimanjaro and Arusha  WFP/France
5. Coffee Development       Hbeya, Ruvuma, Arusha   EEC/Lome III
Project                  Kilimanjaro, Tanga
and Kagera
6. Rural Integrated         Iringa                   FAO
Development Program
(RIDEF)
7. Tractorisatiou and       Morogoro                 FAO/Italy
Extension Programme
8. Small Scale Irrigation   Kilimanjaro              Japan
9. Small Scale Irrigation   Arusha and Dodoma        ILO
10. Fertilizer Programme     Ilonga, Mbeya,.Ruvuma   FAO
and M4ara
11 * Extension Training      Morogoro                 FAOIUNDP
Project
12. Southern Highlands       Iringa, Rukwa,           IFAD
Food Support Project    Mbeya and Ruvuma
13. Small-Scale Dairy        Mbeya and Iringa         Swiss Development
Project                                           Corporation
14. Banana Peat Control      Kagera                   EEC
Project



- 17 -
therefore, during the first project year: (a) review existing curricula for the
provision of certificates and devise a certificate degree training program
compatible with new needs; and (') taking into consideration the recommendations
of the action plan dealing with manpower development in the agricultural sector
already formulated under the IDA-supported Technical Assistance IV Project, MALD
would determine actions to be taken in order to bring the supply of agriculture
and livestock diplomas into line with affordable demand. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the first project Annual Work Program would include
the new certificate training program and the scope of future training in LITIs and
MATIs in the various disciplines (Para 6.01(g)).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Management
3.01      Overall responsibility for pro4ect implementation, management, planning,
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation would rest with the Commissioner for
Agriculture and Livestock Development (CALD), who would be assisted by an
Assistant Commissioner for Extension Services (ACES), acting on his behalf
whenever necessary (Para 2.06 and Annex 2). The ACES would be assisted, among
others, by an extension methodology expert, a supplies officer, an accountant and
a monitoring and evaluation officer; and by the relevant Heads of Divisions of
MALD, who would meet as needed.   The ACES would ensure that:  (a) a unified line
of command is established and functioning between the field and headquarters;
(b) adequate coordination between the extension system and other activities and
institutions dealing with the agricultural sector is established (Paras
3.05-3.07); (c) relevant annual and long-term planning and budgeting are prepared;
and bi-annual progress reports are prepared and presented to the MALD's Management
Team and IDA; (d) extension rehabilitation activities are carried out as planned;
and (e) monitoring and evaluation results are used as a management tool.
3.02      Broad policy directives, establishment of priorities, approval or annual
programs and budgets, supervision of the coordination between the various units of
MALD, and between MALD and other institutions and agencies would be provided by
the MMT, chaired by the PS of MALD. In addition, the MMT would be responsible for
the: (a) selection and approval of candidates for overseas and regional training;
(b) review of project implementation progress, and resolution of problem6 whtich
might arise; and (c) review and approval of civil works, building designs, and
procurement of goods and equipment to ensure that they are consistent with program
requirements. The MMT is comprised of the Commissioners for Agriculture and
Livestock Development; Research and Training; Manpower Development and
Administration; Planning and Marketing; and the Chief Accountant of MALD. The MMT
would meet as often as required, but at least cnce every quarter to deal with
extension activities.
B. Introduction of a New Extension Methodology
3.03      Existing extension activities would be integrated into a single delivery
system. A new extension methodology, based on the T&V System, the experience
gained from extension activities in other donor prograin and projects, and the
results of the Pilot Operation, would be adopted. Consequently, groups of farmers
meeting regularly in contact farmers' fields would be visited on a regular and
systematic basis and provided with current advice on production practices and
livestock management, best suited to their specific condit4ons. The VEW would aim
at convincing these groups of farmers to adopt the recommended technology on at
least a small plot or a few livestock on their fatms.  Only the emnergence of a



- 18 -
large number of such small plots or livestock with new technology would signal
good quality extension work. Contact farmers would normally be leaders in
changing the patternc of technology, aa they have been carefully chosen to be
rspresentative of the farming types and holdings, and reasonably good innovative
farmers whom other farmers imitate and follow.
C. Supervision of Activities
3.04      The primary obje^tive of the supervision system to be set up in the
project area would be to guide and support field staff. Supervisors would provide
technical support to sustain effectiveness of VEWs, and would place special
emphasis on monitoring of technology adoption, and solving of production
problems. VEWs should use supervision visits to show the successes/problems of
fast/slow adoption rates, relevancy of technology modifications done or needed,
crop condition, pest/disease diagnosis, and other production onstraints which the
VEW and the farmers are unable to solve.
D. Linkages with Other Institutions and Services
Extension-Research Linkages
3.05      The linkage between research and extension, which would be
initiated under the proposed project, is only the first stage in a continuing
process. This linkage would be based on: (a) a common decision by the research
and extension services on the types of farmer probiems to be solved by research;
(b) researchers communicating solutions to extension workers; (c) extension
workers feeding back to research any additional field problems of farmers; and
(d) research scientists trying to solve those problems. Extension messages would
be based on research conducted in the agro-climatic zone for which they are
intended. H3wever, recommendations emerging from research stations and meant for
specific agro-climatic zones will usually require further adaptation to suit
varying local field conditions. This is particularly true of recommendations for
improved soil management, fertilizer application, and the like. Therefore,
research trials would be held on farmers' fields, simulating more closely actual
farming conditions. This entails more emphasis on factors other than
technological ones, such as farmers' resource endowments, risk Atuations,
sociological rea'ities, and the combined effect of these on farmers' adoption of
recommendations. This type of research is already being carried out under the
Farming Systems Research (FSR) program. Therefore, the main instruments for
research-extension cooperation would be close coordination of activities between
the proposed extension service and the FSR and other research programs, the
nomination of specific liaison officers, and the establishment of a detailed
schedule of regular coordination and contacts between research and extension
workers. Whenever an FSR accivity is going on in a district, a8. extension staff,
the research-extension liaison officer, would be seconded to the FSR. Howcever,
until the FSR program covers all the project area, wherever a region and/or
district coincides with a zonal research and training center, and/or a national
research institute, a senior extension-research liaison officer would be nominated
and posted in the regional or district extension office. Both types of liaison
officers would be in ch&rge of coordinating joint extension-research activities
such as visits of research staff to farmer fields; visits of farmers and extension
staff to research stations and trial plots; training of extension staff by
research personnel; evaluation of the feasibility and economic viability of
recommendations formulated by research; and feedback to the research community on
problems encountered in the fields. To ensure success of those linkage
arrangements, assurances were obtained at negotiations that:



- 19 -
(a) a senior extension staff member, the research-extension liaison officer,
would be seconded to each farming systems research team to work as
research-exter.aion liaison officer. He/she would participate in FSR
program planning at zonal level, would help with selection of sites and
farmers for on-farm trials, and would arrange with extension staff the
supervision of a part of the adaptive trials chat the researeh staff may
not be able to cover. In areas where the F'R program is not yBt
operative, an extension-research liaison officer will be posted in the
relevant extensioi. office (Para 6.01(h)):
(b) both liaison officers would, each in his/her area, organize regular
monthly workshops at which the farming systems research team and/or such
other research specialists, as may be needed, would meet with extension
service SMSs and extension staff supervisors. During these workshops,
extension staff would be trained by research personnel, and would be
provided with the latest research recommendations for advisory work for
that part of the season; and extension staff would acquaint the
researchers with problems encountered, which may need to be
investigated (Para 6.01(h)); and
(c) an annual research-extension workshop would be held at zonal research
stations, including senior research and extension staff and farmers'
representatives at the time when the research program planning takes
place, to ensure an input by farmers and the extension service in the
planning 3f the zonal research program; and to plan the seasonal
extension timetable and timing of the regular research/extension
workshops, and the on-farm trial program. The agenda would be jointly
developed by the FSR or zonal research teams and senior extension staff
working in the area.
3.06      Moreover, pre-seasonal/annual workshops would be organized in each
agro-climatic zone by tne ACT (Para 2.12).  The workshops would: (a) r--iiew and
evaluate the farm trials carried out by the FSR and other Research/Extension
agencies; (b) discuss programs for the next year trials, and (c) finalize
production recommendations on the basis of past on-farm trials for extension
operations. These workshops would be attended by regional and district SMSs for
their respective zone and headquarter staff along with respective research
scientists.
3.07      As the extension system becomes rehabilitated and the first generation
of problems (such as filling vacant positions, training the SMSs and field
extension staff, and getting the dynamics of the T&V system operational) are
tackled, attention should be given to more general issues. These issues relate to
the larger role that extension and research must play in the context of national
priorities for agricultural and livestock development. To fulfill thir. role, both
extension and research should be involved with planning for agricultural
development right from the beginning. All subsequent steps (formulation of the
research program, formulation of extension messages, identification of farm-level
problems, on-farm validation of recommendations, and adaptation of recommendatio-is
emanating from research stations to varying Lield situations) would then be
jointly undertaken and implemented.



- 20 -
Extension Linkages with Other Services
3.08      To enable input, credit, marketing and specialized commodity processing
units (e.g., sugar, milk and cotton industries) to take note of demand patterns
generated by extension operations, and to apprise field extension staff of the
current status of availability of materials and services, a regular and continuous
linkage between these institutions and the extension service is essential. The
training sessions at the district and regional levels would provide the right
forum for this purpose. Therefore, input supply, credit, marketing and processing
agencies would participate during that part of the day's deliberations when issues
related to their field are discussed. In addition, activities dealing with the
preparation of the Veterinary Services Delivery System are closely coordinated
with the proposed project. Although it is difficult to foresee in detail future
linkages between the extension. research and veterinary services until the
proposals for the latter are fully defined, it is obvious that veterinary agents
would participate intensively in the training of extension staff. Whenever
necessary and feasible, these agents would also visit farmer fields with the VEWs,
assisting them in solving anlmal health problems, and would participate in the
formulation of the research program.
E. Programming of Activities
3.09      An Annual Work Program (AWP) would be prepared by the ACES to organi-.e
project implementation and alltw for adequate monitoring of progress. The AWP
would include: (a) a review of project implementation in the previous year; (b) a
detailed description of work to be carried out in the forthcoming year including
objectives, staff and/farmer training, monitoring and evaluation activities,
deployment of staff and equipment, construction plans, and procurement schedules;
(c) requirements for additional staff, and inputs; (d) requirements and
arran e ents for technical assistance, and loLal and foreign training- and (e) a
udget and financing plan, including local and foreign currency requirements.
Assurances were obtained that starting in 1990, the AWP would be submitted to IDA
by March 1 of each year and would be carried out, taking IDA comments into
account. However, for the first project year, the project AWP would be submitted
to IDA by November 30, 1989 (Para 6.01(i)).
F.  Projact Implementation Review
3.10      Taking into consideration data compiled by the project Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) system (Paras 3.12-3.14), a joint Government/IDA/AfDF project
implementation review would be hield not later than three years after credit
effectiveness. It is envisaged that this report would cover, among others,
progress in: introducing the new extension methodology; mergin3 agriculture and
livestock extension into a unified service; setting up of e new organizational
structure; development of linkages between the research, veterinary, and extension
systems; adoption rates of extended technologies by farmers; and evolution of
incomes of the farming community and especially women farmers. Assurances to that
effect and agreement that the Government would prepare e project implementation
review report with terms of reference to be agreed with IDA and AfDF were obtained
at negotiations (Para 6.01(j)). Based on the results of the review, the
Government, IDA and AfDF would agree on changes that may be needed to improve
project implementation or impact.



- 21 -
G. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.11      Assurances were obtained that the ACES would prepare implementation
reports every six months, in a format acceptable to IDA, which would record
project physical and financial progress, and to the extent possible, project
impact.  These reports should reach IDA not later than one month after their
completion (Para 6.01(k)).  In addition, within six months of completing the
project, the MALD would prepare and forward to the Bank a completion report which
would deal with all aspects of the project and would evaluate the benefits derived
by farmers and by the country from adopting extension recommendations
(Para 6.01(1)).
3.12      Data required for above reports would be generated by a project M&E
system, comprising two interrelated components: a Management Information System
(MIS) and an Overall Evaluation System (OES). The MALD wou!d be responsible for
the design and implementation ( ncluding data collection) of the MIS and OES at
both headquarters and regional levels. Therefore, assurances were obtained that
detailed design and implementation schedules of the MIS and OES would be presented
to IDA for comments and approved not later than six months after credit
effectiveness (Para 6.01(m)). The MIS would be designed to generate the kind of
data necessary to ensure effective day-to-day management of project activities and
would specifically seek to: (a) improve the quality of decision-making by
providing both central and regional staff with up-to-date information on the
performance of the extension services measured against specific key indicators;
(b) improve internal coordination and communication between the various project
components; and (c) provide a data base for periodic evaluations of project
impact. The OES would generate data needed to facilitate informed judgments
regarding the project's institution-building achievements, its impact and its
cost-effectiveness relative to the national agricultural objectives and
strategies. The MALD Planning and Marketing Division (PMD) would play a major
role in designing the OES to ensure that it would generate the desired
information.
3.13      The design of the M&E system would be predicated on the fact that the
main measure of rroject performance would be the extent to which the project helps
to improve the local capability for extension services, and the degree to which
the various segments of the farming community apply the technical packages
extended by the rehabilitated service. Moreover, these results of the M&E system
would be used during the preparation of the project implementation review
(Para 3.10). With regard to the institution building aspect, the M&E system would
aim at maintaining systematic information on manpower development and training and
on the progress of counterpart staff towards replacing the internationally
recruited staff. With regard to the adoption of technical packages, the M&E
system would monitor the media for traasmitting the messages to the farming
community. In monitoring the media, the M&E system would check whether a
satisfactory portion of the farming community is exposed to, and in contact with,
the extension agents and whether a satisfactory number of these farmers is
prepared to try out, at least on a pilot basis, the proposed recommendations. The
technological and economic worth of the messages would be evaluated by monitoring
what proportion of initial adopters continue to follow the recommendation in
subsequent seasons, the implication being that those who continue with a
recommendation do so because they find it to be of value. Each year, adoption
rate surveys with key indicators would be conducted in the regions to be covered
by the project.



- 22 -
3.14      The project M&E system would be responsible for conducting annual impact
evaluation exercises to be carried out at the end of each cropping year. In the
early years, the annual evaluation would focus on assessing performance relative
to the annual work program and budget, on the achievements of the extension
services in disseminating the available technological packages, and on identifying
constraints and possible ways to remove these constraints. In the later years,
annual evaluations would progressively include assessment of the extent to which
progress is made towards achieving the project institution-building objectives.
IV. COSi ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at US$30.4
million with a foreign exchange component of about US$20.8 million (68.0% of
total). The GOT does not levy duties or taxes on goods and services procured by
government ministries. The cost estimates are based on May 1988 prices. Foreign
exchange costs were converted to local costs using the annual constant purchasing
parity exchange rates to the U.S. dollar over the project period. Price
contingencies were estimated using local inflation rates declining from 30.0% for
1988/89, to 10.0% between 1992/93 and 1995/96; and foreign inflation rates
remaining constant at 3.0% between 1988/89 and 1990/1991, then rising to 3.5% in
1991/1992 and 4.0% between 1992/93 and 1995/96. Physical contingencies were
estimated at 20% for civil works, 10% for vehicle operation and maintenance, and
5% for other recurrent items. Project costs, including abo-'e price and physical
contingencies over an 8-year implementation period, are summarized in Table 3.
Details are provided in Annex 6. Investment costs comprise about 65% of total
costs with major items being vehicles and training, accounting for 21% and 16% of
project costs respectively. The major item of recurrent costs is operation and
maintenance of vehicles (21%). About 62% of the expe-diture is incurred during
the first 4 years when project activities are extended to cover the whole project
area.
B. Financing
4.02      Project costs would be financed by a US$18.4 million IDA credit, a
US$ 8.8 million AfDF credit, and the balance of US$3.2 million by GOT as follows:
Tanzania
National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Program
Table 4. Financing Plan
(T'S$ million)
Local        Foreign              % of Total
Currency    Exchange               Project
Source of Finance               Costs          Costs      Total       Costs
IDA                             4.4           14.0        18.4           60.5
AfDF                             2.0           6.8         8.8           29.0
GOT                             3.2            -           3.2           10.5
Totax Project Costs              9.6          20.8        30.4          100.0
To ensure that the project would not be delayed by financing gaps, it was agreed
at negotiations that it would be a condition for IDA credit effectiveness that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AfDF loan have been fulfilled
(Para 6.02).



ZWAV
~ m m uvum- - -
?MZ 3: lw  =If inm 
(TSHS '000)                                       (USS 000)
Z Total                                      I Total
I Foreign  Base                              1 Forumn Bse
Local      Forein      Total    Exchanwe   Costs    Local Foreign   Total  Exchante  Costs
A. EXTENSION ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT      464,908.4 1,2993468.7 1.7649277.1         74      72  4,893.8 13.677.6 18,571.3        74       72
B. STAFF AND FARMERS TRAININ6                 275,239.1   210.162.9   485,402.0         43      20  2.897.3  2,212.2 5.109.5          43      20
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                               -   195,000.0   195,000.0        100       e        -  24052.6  24052.6        100       8
Total BASELINE COSTS                            740,1475 1,704,531.6 2,444U679.1          70     100  7,791.0 17o942.4 25,733.5         70     100
Phwsical Contingencies                        69,624.9    71,060.5   140.685.4         51       6    732.9    748.0  1,490.9        51        6
Price Cont.iasences                          6749970.2 197129727.6 2.587.697.8         66     106  1,090.7  2,096.2  3,186.9        66       12
rotal PREcr COSTS                             1,684,742.7 3.488,319.7 5,173,062,.3        67     212 V.614.6 20,786.6 30#401.2         68      1t8
Decinber 7. 1988 1l:20



- 24 -
4.03      The project has been designed so that external funds are made available
to finance all of the capital cost and recurrent expenditure arising from the
project during its first four years. Foreign assistance would cover 100% of
project foreign costs and 67% of local costs; the GGT would finance the remaining
local costs. However, existing infrastructure (human and physical) in the areas
to be eventually rehabilitated, would continue to deteriorate between now and the
time planned activities would cover all regions in the project area, if present
expenditures were not expanded to some extent.  Moreover, because of conflicting
demands on budget resources, there is a danger that the recurrent budget allocated
to extension activiti.s may be eroded in the future. This would undermine the
main project objectives of establishing a technically viable and financially sound
extension system. Consequently, assurances were received that the Government
would gradually increase in real terms, the recurrent budget allocated to
agriculture and livestock extension, so as to cover all incremental project
recurrent costs by the eighth project year (Para 6.01(n)).
C. Procurement
4.04      Procurement procedures for items financed by AfDF would be according to
AfDF guidelines; those financed by IDA would be in accordance with IDA guidelines
as elaborated in paras 4.05-4.06 below. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that these procedures would be followed. Where procurement of similar items is
concerned, the project management would ensure reasonable standardization of
procurement of such items, irrespective of the source of finance.
4.05      Local bidding procedures have been reviewed by IDA for procurement of
both works and goods and found satisfactory, except for preference currently given
to parastatals, which will not be applied in this IDA-financed project.
4.06      Whenever possible, purchase of goods, including vehicles, wcald be
bulked into contracts of more than US$100,000 to be procured by international
competitive bidding. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference
in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual
customs duties or import taxes, whichever is lower. In addition, small
off-the-shelf items (mainly vehicle spare parts and training materials) costing
less than IJS$20,000 each and needed urgently for project implementation may be
purchased by "prudent shopping" after at least three price quotations. The total
value of items purchased in this way should not exceed US$250,000 without prior
IDA agreement.
4.07      Aasurances were obtained that consultant services would be procured
according to IDA guidelines, with qualifications, contract terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. Overseas training arrangements would be subject to joint
approval by AfDF and IDA. Other project expenditures such as staff pay and
recurrent operating expenditures are not subject to procurement procedures.
4.08      IDA-financed contracts for more than US$100,000 equivalent for vehicles
would require IDA review of procurement documentation prior to award of contract.
Other IDA-financed contracts would be subject to post-award review.
Prequalification documentation (invitation and evaluation) would also require IDA
review. The following table summarizes procurement methods for different
expenditure categories:



- 25 -
Tanzania
National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project
Table 5.  Procurement Schedule 1/
(Us$ Million)
Expenditure Category                ICB       NA   Other 2/  GOT    TOTAL
Civil Works                                   -       3.4    -         3.4
[3.41   -       [3.41
Equipment and Furniture             -         -       2.8    -         2.8
[2.81   -       [2.81
Vehicles                            6.2       -       -       -        6.2
(6.2)     -       -       -       (6.2)
Technical Assistance                          2.2     -       -        2.2
(2.2)    -      -        (2.2)
Training                            -         3.5     1.3    -         4.8
(3.5)    -      -        (3.5)
-      (1.31   -        [1.3J
Vehicle Operation and               -         5.2     -       2.1      7.3
Maintenance                                 (5.2)    -      -        (5.2)
Equipment Operation and             -         -       1.1    0.4       1.5
Maintenance                                         (1.11   -        (1.11
Salaries, Wages and Allowances      -         1.3     -      0.4       1.7
(1.3)    _      _        (1.3)
Building Maintenance                          -       0.2    0.1       0.3
[0.21   -       [0.2]
Office Supplies                               -       -      0.1       0.1
Office Rental Charges               -         -       -      0.1       0.1
Total                               6.2      12.2     8.8    3.2      30.4
IDA                                (6.2)   (12.2)    -       -       (18.4)
AfDF                                _                [8.81   -        [8.81
1/ Figures in parentheses represent IDA financing and figures in brackets
represent AfDF financing.
2/ To be carried out according to ArDF procedures.



- 26 -
D. Disbursements
4.09      The proceeds of the US$18.4 million IDA credit would be disbursed over
eight years as follows:
Tanzania
National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Program
Table 6. Disbursements
(US$ 'Million)
Amount       Disbursement
Category                              US$ Million       Percentage
(a)  "-hicles                              5.4         100% of Expenditure
(b)  Technical Assistance                 2.0          100% of Expenditure
(e)  Local Training Costs                  3.1         100% of Expenditure
(d)  Project Recurrent Costs               5.7 1/
(e)  Special Project Preparation          0.4          100% of Expenditure
Facility
(f)  Unallocated                           1.8
Total                                     18.4
1/ 100% of Expenditure up to US$ 3.2 million; 95% of additional
Expenditure up to US$ 1.2 million; 80% of additional Expenditure up to
US$1.1 million; and 55% of additional Expenditure up to US$0.8 million.
These costs include vehicle operation and maintenance, and salaries,
wages and allowances.
4.iO      Disbursement for all expenditures would be against full documentation,
except for items (c) and (d) in para 4.09 above %nd for contracts for goods and
services costing less than US$20,000 each, which would be based on statements of
expenditure. Supporting documentation for statements of exr,enditure should be
retained by the borrower for IDA's review. The statements of expenditure would be
subject to special audit each year (Para 4.13).
4.11      The Project completion and closing dates are September 30, 1996, and
March 31, 1997, respectively. The estimated disbursement schedule for the IDA
credit, AfDF loan and GOT financing is as follows:



- 27 -
RIAJL 1dR AD LI1                    -I Yw
Tme 7. iskEu            _ Scim
(lBssiillion)
MANFY            1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95   1995196
Amial              3.0       2.7      2.8      3.2      2.4      1.9      1.6       0.8
Coulative          3.0       5.7      8.5     11.7    14.1      16.0     17.6      18.4
Thtal Cbest     16.3      31.0     46.2    63.6    76.6       870      95.7     100.0
AfR
Amiul              1.5       1.9      2.0      2.0      0.5      0.4      0.4       0.1
Omndative          1.5       3.4      5.4      7.4      7.9      8.3      8.7       8.8
Thul Cndit      17.0      38.6     61.4    84.1      89.8    94.3      98.9     100.0
Aot                                                    0.1      0.4      0.9       1.8
nOalitiw0.1                                                     O,5      1A        3.2
4.12       Special Account and Sub-Account.  To ensure that funds for the project
would be readily available when needed and to reduce the number of disbursement
claims to he processed, a Special Account in US dollars would be established in
the Bank of Tanzania which will open an account in US dollars in a foreign
commercial bank.   Moreover, in order to finance eligible local expenditures, the
GOT will open and maintain in loral currency, a Sub-Account of the Special
Account, in the name of NALERP, in a local commercial bank. This Sub-Account
would be operated on an imprest basis. Upon credit effectiveness, US$0.75
million, representing the anticipated 3-4 months disbursement rate, would be
deposited by IDA into the Special Account to be used to pay for any expenditure to
be financed by IDA (Para 4.09). Subsequently, the EU will transfer TSh. 7.5
million, representing IDA's share of one month's local project expenditures, from
the Special Account to the Sub-Account. Further deposits by IDA to replenish the
Special Account would be made against Withdrawal Applications supported by
appropriate documents, while further deposite by the EU in the Sub-Account would
be made against certified summary of expenditures. Agreements were obtained at
negotiations on the procedures of establishing and replenishing the Special
Account and the Sub-Account.



- 28 -
E. Accounts and Audits
4.13      MALD would maintain separate records for the proposed project in
accordance with sound and consistent accounting principles and methods.
(Annex 7).  Annual financial statements prepared for audit would consist of a
summarized statement of sources and application of funds relating to the project,
together with a summarized statement of the S7eciai Account and the Sub-Account.
Project accounts as well as disbursements based on Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) claims and on transactions resulting from the use of the Special Accounts
would be separately audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
During project implementation, MALD would be required to submit to IDA, within
nine months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of these auditors'
reports. Agreements were obtained, at negotiations, on these accounting and
auditing procedures (Para 6.01(o)).
V.  BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. Benefits
5.01      The rehabilitation of existing extension systems in Tanzania would
result in a more cost-effective utilization of resources allocated to agricultural
services and especially agricultural research and extension. The project would
focus on creating a strong and dynamic agricultural extension system which
effectively delivers technical messages particularly tailored to fa"mers' needs
and aimed at increasing yield levels for both staple food and export crops.  The
project would thereby raise rural incomes and employment and contribute towards
the national objectives of self-sufficiency in staple foods and increased export
earnings from the agricultural sector.
5.02      The rate and extent of adoption of technological improvements by farmers
and the productivity and output gains due to their application cannot be.
accurately predicted and are likely to vary significantly across agro-ecological
zones. Moreover, incremental gains in productivity would be attributable not
merely to the adoption of technological innovations but to the combined impact of
various support services (input supply, marketing, credit and the like) as well as
to that of the general macro-economic environment.  Therefore, the project's
monitoring and evaluation system would develop a data base for generating an
indicative analysis of the economic returns of the project, as a planning tool for
adjusting project intervention priorities, location, and scope.
5.03      Despite data shortcomings, estimates of crop yield increases and farm
budgets for the present and future situations was carried out.  These estimates
may be used as an indication of the order of magnitude of the potential gains
which may be achieved with some basic improvements in farm practices.  The
exercise is based on a representative smallholder farm family using its own labor
(supplemented when necessary by the exchange of labor) and using hand
cultivation. Due to lack of reliable livestock data, the model farm budgets
include food and export crops only. Details of the crop costings and improved
farming practl:es, and sample farm budgets are presented in Annex 6.
5.04      Yield estimates in the models are based on past experience in countries
with similar conditions, which has shown that yields achieved by many traditional
farmers can be increased through the adoption of technologies already being used
by the more advanced farmers in the same areas. These yield increases are usually
attaine.d through the adoption of all or a part of a package of improved farming
practices, including: better planting time and spacing, higher seeding rates,
increased weeding and the use of purchased inputs such as improved seeds,



- 29 -
fertilizers and plant protection material. However, yield increases taken into
consideration in the models are modest and range from 18X (sorghum/millet) to 135%
(cashew nut) during the 8-year project. Based on these estimates and using
official producer prices, the project could result in incremental yearly family
net cash incomes ranging from US$45.0 to US$65.u, or an increase of 35% to 75%.
Moreover, at 1987/88 world market prices and an exchange rate of TShlOO.O/US$1.0,
project costs per family served by extension amount to about US$13.0 per year, the
worth of 130 kg of maize. Incremental production of both food and cash crops as a
result of the project would be substantial. Assuming that the adoption rate for
the technological packages transferred to farmers through the extension service is
uniform for the different crops, it is expected that by the end of project life
some 40% of the farmers reached will achieve 100% of projected yield increases,
202 will get 50% of these incremental yields, and the remaining 40% will only be
able to increase their yields by 20%. At the end of project life, it is expected
that the annual incremental production of main food crops will amount to 1,800
tons of paddy and 99,000 tons of maize; while incremental production of cash crops
will reach some 3,000 tons of cashewnut and 31,000 tons of seed cotton. At the
1988/89 export parity and import c.i.f. prices of crops grown by project
participants, the co"ntry will annually earn additional foreign exchange
equivalent of about US$30.0 million, through additional exports and reduced food
imports.
B.   Risks
5.05      The main risks would be organizational difficulties, inadequate funding,
and lower than expected adoption rates of improved agro-technologies by farmers.
To avoid problems on the first count, the project would finance a
multi-disciplinary technical assistance team to help Tanzanian staff to carry out
the rehabilitation process of the extension service and to provide intensive
management training. The consulting assistance would continue long enough to
help: (a) install improved management systems, including financial control,
accounting and management information systems and better planning and recording;
and (b) train local staff to maintain and improve, whenever necessary, these
management systems. On the s'ond count, assurances were obtained that
expenditures for extension presently provided by GOT to extension would be
expanded as needed in order to cover all project cost by the eighth project year.
On the third count, improved planning to relate extension messages to farmers'
needs, close research-extension linkages, intensified training and supervision of
activities should help encourage farmers' adoption of technical messages provided
by extension staff.
5.06      Some operational risks exist.  Civil works construction tends to
progress slowly as a result of delays in selection of contractors and/or
procurement of materials as well as poor supervision. Therefore, the EU would be
staffed adequately and special efforts would be made during project supervision to
assist in problem solving. In addition, whenever a large-scale reorganization of
an institution takes place, there is a natural tendency -owards some internal
conflicts and resistance. Also, field staff might suffer from some initial
adjustment difficulties. It is expected that the infusion of vehicles, equipment,
training, and housing would counter any potential morale problems and motivate the
extension staff to achieve high professional standards.
C. Sustainability
5.07      There are two aspects of sustainability -- institutional and financial.
The proposed project intends to train thousands of agricultural
extension staff and transfer technical knowledge to hundreds of thousands of
farmers. If the extension methodology is implemented as foreseen, the potential



- 30 -
increases in agricultural production may be quite significant. But this requires
a total commitment from all involved, including a vast maze of government
ministries, regions, districts, wards and villages. Therefore, MALD would have to
demonstrate strong leadership, and institutional issues which emerge would have to
be solved as soon as detected.
5.08      With regard to the financial sustainability of the project, bud,etary
constraints limit the contribution from the Government of Tanzania to minimal
levels. The inadequacy of funds to sustain ongoing activities is severe, so
incremental budgetary outlays by GOT would be limited, especially in the initial
years of the project. But GOT has committed itself to the streamlining of
existing extension activities through the merger of the separate agriculture and
livestock extension services of MALD, and through the unification of extension
programs financed by different donors and using various extension methods.
Institutionally, this would promote a more cost-effective extension system and
financially it would provide for a more efficient utilization of available
resources. Since the project is expected to bring about increases in agricultural
(crops and livestock) production .,id generate foreign exchange (by import
substitution or increased exports), GOT is also expected to obtain additional
revenue to cover a significant share of the project costs after the crucial
take-off years. Moreover, the ERP (Para 1.05) introduced in 1986 already
indicates that the economy is beginning to grow. Without taking into
consideration savings from the streamlining of extension activities, and assuming
that the economy would continue to grow at an annual average rate of 4%, and that
this would be translated into a 4% growth in budget allocations, MALD would easilv
be in a position to sustain activities established under the proposed project
(Annex 6, Page 8). Project funding has been formulated in a manner that minimizes
the strain on GOT's budget in the initial years of the project, gradually
increasing its contribution when the expected economic benefits from the project
begin to materialize (Para 4.03).
D. Environmental Effects
5.09      Technical packages to be extended by the rehabilitated service would be
based on technologies which safeguard the delicate balance of agro-ecosystems.
Sound integrated pest management practices would be extended to eradicate major
pests and diseases. In addition, the decision to base technical packages mainly
on Farming System Research recommendations and to integrate agricultural and
livestock extension would ensure optimum soil productivity and conservation.
Also, mixed and rotational cropping and more effective livestock husbandry to be
taught to farmers by the extension service should help to maintain or enhance soil
fertility and decrease erosion through better vegetation coverage of the soil.
E. Focus on Women
5.10      Women in Tanzania play a vital role as farmers, managers, decision
makers and farm laborers. In addition, they are entirely responsible for
harvesting, threshing, and storing of food crops. The extension system should,
therefore, focus on women farmers to achieve better technology diffusion.
Moreover, the following measures would be taken under the project to bring about
better focus on women: (a) efforts would be made to attain a high proportion of
female contact farmers and to increase the number of female extension staff;
(b) VEW visits would be made at times which suit the convenience of women; and
(c) farm implements which would reduce the drudgery of home and farm labor would
be identified and promoted for the benefit of women. The project implementation
review would include an assessment of its impact on women (Para 3.10).



- 31 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND -RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) material changes in the status and terms of reference of the ACES and EU
would be made in agreement with IDA (Para 2.06);
(b) the establishment for the agricultural and livestock extension services
would be: (i) maintained at present level until September 30, 1989;
(ii) revised according to MALD's new structure and presented to IDA by
September 30, 1989; and (iii) maintained at revised level, with
additional staff recruitment being offset by staff attrition
(Para 2.09);
(c) consultants would be selected and hired on terms and conditions
agreeable to IDA (Para 2.14);
(d)  terms of refekence for the preparation of the second phase of the
rehabilitation of the extension services would be agreeable to IDA
(Para 2.15);
(e) detailed rehabilitation/construction plans of physical infrastructure
would be included annually in the project Annual Work Program
(Para. 2.16);
(f) extension coordination policies and mechanisms in on-going
agricultural projects and programs would be: (i) designed during the
first project year; (ii) discussed and agreed upon with IDA and all
donors and ministries involved; (iii) 'Wncluded in the first project
Annual Work Program; and (iv) initiated in the second year of the
project (Para 2.Z0);
(g) a new certificate training program and the scope of future training
in LITIs and MATIs would be included in the first project Annual
Work Program (Para 2.22);
(h) a senior extension staff member, the research-extension liaison
officer, would be seconded to the farming systems research teams,
and an extension-research liaison officer would be nominated in the
regions/districts coinciding with the research zones. Both liaison
officers would be responsible for the implementation of a preset
coordination and cooperation program between the agricultural and
livestock extension and research services (Para 3.05(a,b));
(i) for the first project year, a project Annual Work Program prepared
by the ACES would be submitted to IDA by November 30, 1989; the project
Annual Work Program would be presented to IDA by March 1 each year and
would be carried out, taking IDA comments into account (Para 3.09);
(j) a joint Government/IDA project implementation review, with terms of
reference agreeable to IDA, would be carried out not later than three
years after credit effectiveness (Para 3.10);



- 32 -
(k) project implementation reports, in a format agreeable to IDA, and which
will record project physical and financial progress, and to the extent
pcssible, project impact, would be prepared every six months and
forwarded to IDA not later than one month after their completion
(Para 3.11);
(1) a project completion report, dealing with all aspects of project
implementation, and which would evaluate the benefits derived by farmers
and by the country from adopting extension recommendations, would be
prepared within six months of completing the project and forwarded to
IDA not later than one month later (Para 3.11);
(m) detailed design and implementation schedules of the project
Management Information System and Overall Evaluation System would be
presented to IDA for comments and approval not later than six mor,th;
after credit offectiveness (Para 3.12);
(n) the 1987/88 value of recurrent budget allocated to agriculture and
livestock extension woild be gradually increased each year in real terms
to ensure project sustainability and to cover all project recurrent
costs by the eighth project year (Para 4.03); and
(o) records of project expendttures, which would be maintained
separately, would be audited annually by an independent auditor
satisfactory to IDA, who should also be asked to prepare a report to
verify disbursements based on statements of expenditure and on
transactions resulting from the use of the Special Account and its
Sub-Account. These audit reports would be forwarded to IDA within nine
months of the end of the financial year (Para 4.13).
6.02      The following would be condition for credit effectiveness:
-    all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the AfDF loan have been
fulfilled (Para 4.02).
6.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit for the equivalent of SDR 13.7 (US$18.4 million) to the
Government of Tanzania on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



ANNEXE S



- -9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta 
4 =mp*=. 71
U-  ----{Iq1
-- 9I                                          *-U ~         Pf
PA -AW    uouoq   op.a  op  PUD              somepu~
(40111)r                 _                       |)MW%PN
u wkgu4o UOU          _  nW*     PUo P w PUO
INWdOlIM  )OOJSM31n WV 3UNLfl9 d0 AWMI
Wcm



itl   -t-W[jil Ai  t1gIE
| I     |                SM:1  li ,i  I I
I~~



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION RERABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
I. PRESENT ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       Since 1985, when the last reorganization of the Tanzanian agricultural
and livestock development agencies took place, there have been six divisions
reporting to the Principal Secretary (PS) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development (MALD) namely: Agriculture, Livestock, Planning and
Marketing, Manpower Development and Administration, Irrigation, and Research and
Training. Commissioners head the first three divisions, and directors the last
three, although it is proposed that a Commissioner should be in charge of the
Research and Training Division (RTD).
2.        The Agriculture Division comprises the following sections, each headed
by an assistant commissioner: Crop Production and Extension Services; Plant
Protection; Land Use Planning; Agricultural Mechanization; and Farmers' Education
and Publicity. The Livestock Division comprises the following sections, each
headed by an assistant commissioner; Veterinary Services; Livestock Production;
Animal Products Control; and Range Management. Staff of the Agriculture and
Livestock Divisions are located at, and operate separately in, MALD Headquarters
in Dar es Salaam; 20 regional centres under the supervision of Regional
Agricultural Development Officers (RADOs) and Regional Livestock Development
Officers (RLDOs) respectively; 110 district centres under the supervision of
District Agricultural Development Officers (DADOs) and District Livestock
Development Officers (DLDOs) respectively; and .n certain instances, in about 500
divisions, 2,200 wards and about 8,000 villages throughout mainland Tanzania.
Regional and District Development Officers are assisted by agricultural or
livestock officers in the various disciplines.
B. CONSTRAINTS AND DIFFICULTIES
3.        The following major constraints are considered to be inhibiting the
provision of effective agricultural and livestock extension services to farmers:
-   inadequate, fragmented and undefined organizational arrangements
which do not reflect the importance of extension and the need for
a strong line of extension management from the PS MALD to the
village extension worker;



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
-    lack of a defined extension management system linking the village
extension worker with the policy maker and providing, inter alia, work
plans, supervision, technical assistance, and training schedules for
extension workers, and a formal procedure for monitoring and
evaluation of the efficacy of extension;
-    weak, and in some cases non-existent, linkages between extension and
research for transmission of relevant messages to the farmer and
farmers' enquiries and problems to research for resolution;
-    scarcity of relevant messages from research to extend to farmers;
-    lack of funds for training and transport at all levels resulting in a
very low activity level;
=    dilution of Village Extension Workers' (VEW) efforts by other duties
required by village and ward central administration;
lack of co-ordination between RADOs and RLDOs, DADOs and DLDOs in the
provision of extension services; being separately funded and managed,
they tend to compete for scarce resources and facilities such as
transport, training centres and the like; and
=    lack of staff motivation, particularly at the lower levels, due to
above constraints and to a failure to carry out promotions in
accordance with the MALD terms of service.
II. PROPOSED ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. REORGANIZATION STAGES
4.       The rehabilitation of the agriculture and livestock extension services
would be undertaken together with the reorganization of the Agriculture and
Livestock Divisions of MALD which is meant to set up a single Agricultural and
Livestock Development Division headed by a Commissioner (CALD). This
reorganization would take place at all levels. Consequently, some of the existing
posts would be abolished and new posts created at the regional and district levels
to manage the unified system. Specifically, a Regional Agricultural and Livestock
Development Officer (RALDO) would take the place of the existing RADO and RLDO,
and a District Agricultural and Livestock Development Officer (DALDO) would take
the place of the existing DADO and DLDO. The framework of the unified structure
has already been agreed upon by GOT and will be implemented at headquarters and in
the regions in the very near future. Under the project, agricultural and
livestock extension services would be reorganized and upgraded in 55 districts (in
12 regions) following the Training and Visit extension methodology.



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
B. PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE
AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK DIVISION
5.       The main features of the proposed organizational set-up  would include
the Commissioner for Agriculture and Livestock Development (CALD), who would be
assisted by a number of Assistant Commissioners, one of them, the Assistant
Commissiorer for Extension Services (ACES). The proposed structure would include
headquarters, regional, district and division/village levels, and would be
supported by a high level MALD Committee, the MALD's Management Team (MMT).
Headquarters Set-up
6.        At headquarters, the MMT, CALD and ACES, who would also head an
extension Unit (EU), would deal with extension activities. Their main
attributions are detailed in the following:
7.       The MALD's Management Team (MMT).  The CALD and ACES would be supported
by a high level MALD advisory committee, the MALD's Management Team (MMT), meeting
at least quarterly. Membership of this committee would include PS MALD as
chairman, the DPS, the Commissioners for Agriculture and Livestock Development
(CALD), Research and Training (CRT), Planning and Marketing (CPM); Manpower
Development and Administration (CMDA); and the Chief Accountant. The MMT would be
responsible for advising the CALD, ACES and PS MALD on the following extension
matters:
-    establishment of policies, priorities and objectives;
-    approval of annual extension programs and recurrent and
development budgets (recommended by ACES in conjunction with Assistant
Commissioners Crops and Livestock);
-    ensuring that training needs are identified and met, by internal
or external means, and approval of candidates for overseas
training;
-    coordination between NALERP and other agricultural and livestock
projects, programs and activities;
-    productive coordination and linkages between extension and research,
by ACES, regional and district management, and subject matter
specialists; and
-    review of project implementation against plans, resolving problems and
taking corrective actions in the event of slippage.
8.       The Commissioner for Agricultural and Livestock Development (CALD)
would be responsible for all operations of the existing Agriculture and Livestock
Divisions, including the revised extension system, and for the achievement of
objectives within budget.  He would liaise as required with other MALD departments
and parastatals, request and use information and assistance from



- 38 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
the head of M & E, and senior officers from the finance and personnel divisions as
needed in the management of his division. Over time, the EU would reduce in size
as advisory staff complete their assignments and as MALD staff from other
divisions are no longer required for NALERP related work. The CALD would be
assis ed by a number of Assistant Commissioners as follows?
(a) Assistant Commissioner for Extension Services (ACES), who would be
responsible, in close collaboration with the Commissioner for
Agriculture and Livestock Development, for the effective and efficient
implementation throughout Tanzania mainland of the Training and Visit
(T&V) system of extension, both for agriculture (crops and soils) and
livestock. Although not administratively responsible for regional and
district extension staff, the ACES would nevertheless exercise strong
functional control over the planning and budgeting, implementation and
operation of the extension system. 'rhis would be achieved by visible
support from the PS and DPS MALD through REOs, with whom efficient two-
way communication would be maintained, and DEOs, and through close
Lonsultation with the heads of crops and livestock divisions at
headquarters, regional and district levels. The ACES would ensure the
development, through training and liaison with appropriate research
bodies, of a high degree of competence among all extension staff and
that extension work is adequately funded;
(b) The Assistant Commissioner for Crop Development Services (ACDS) who
would take charge of all crop and soils services, development programs
and projects not directly concerned with the new T&V system, liaising as
required with other MALD departments and parastatals. The ACDS would
therefore be responsible for the following sections: crop and seed
production; land use planning and soil conservation; plant protection;
and agricultural mechanization;
(c) The Assistant Commissioner for Veterinary and Livestock Services (ACVLS)
who would take charge of all livestock services, development programs
and projects not directly concerned with the new T&V system, would also
liaise as required with other MALD departments and parastatals. The
ACVLS would be responsible for the following sections: livestock
production, animal health, range development and management, and animal
products control; and
(d) The Inputs Unit would be responsible for collating and possibly
analysing information about the supply of, and demand for, agricultural
and livestock inputs, provided by extension, crops services and
livestock services based at headquarters and the field.
9.        Extension Unit (EU).  The EU would be appointed before credit Board
presentation and would assist the ACES to implement NALERP in accordance with
project plans, programs and budgets. The EU would comprise: (a) internationally
recruited advisory staff funded by the project for short and longer term
assignments; and (b) MALD staff either appointed to permanent posts in the ACES's
office at headquarters or seconded temporarily from other MALD units to assist
with NALERP implementation.



-39 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
10.      Internationally recruited advisory staff would consist of the
following personnel:
(a) Extension Methodology Advisor (EMA), required for 5 years to
advise the ACES, his immediate supervisor and the MMT on, and assist
with, all aspects of project implementation. He would therefore
be concerned with the design, planning and implementation of the T&V
system as a whole, the initial and ongoing training courses and
workshops (in conjunction with the Training Specialist), the
visit schedules of the VEWs and Division Extension Officers
(DEOs), management and supervisory tasks of ACES, REOs and DEOS,
extension management reporting, monitoring and evaluation (in
conjunction with the honitoring and Evaluation Advisor) and the
use made of this information by extension management and MALD, the
roles of RALDO (in relation to that of REO) and DALDO (in relation
to that of DEO), the establishment of productive research-extension
linkages, the preparation of annual work plans and extension cost
budgeting and control;
(b) Procurement Advisor (PA), required for 16-18 months intermittently
during the first two to three project years, to advise and assist
the ACES, his immediate superior and the MMT on the timely
procurement of supplies financed under the project.  Tte PA would
ensure that IDA guidelines are followed in botn local and overseas
procurement and would liaise with appropriate IDA procurement
staff in Washington;
(c) Financial Advisor (FA), required 22-24 months intermittently
during the first two to three project years, to advise the ACES, his
immediate superior and the MMT on all matters concerning project
funding, recording and accounting for disbursements and payments. He
would liaise with the Procurement Advisor and the EU Supplies Officer to
ensure that financial and accounting procedures related to the
procurement of inputs are correctly and promptly carried out.  He would
also advise and assist with the implementation of a project accounting
system in close collaboration with MALD's Chief Accountant, both at
headquarters and in the regions where the project is being installed.
In doing this, he would assess opportunities for microcomputer
applications, initially for project accounting, and later for general
adoption by MALD;
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor (MEA), required for 16-18 months to
advise the Assistart Commissioner Project Preparation and Monitoring
Bureau (PPMB), the ACES and his immediate superior, and the MMT on the
most appropriate monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the proposed
T&V extension scheme. He would design the Management Information System
(MIS) and the Overall Evaluation System (OES), ensuring their relevance
primarily as control devices for extension management to determine
whether and to what extent extension is effective.  The MEA would also



- 40 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
ensure that the systems report progress on project institution
building. After design approval, the MEA would assist PPMB and the ACES
with implementation. This would include, in regions where the project
is being implemented, staff selectlon and training, carrying out a
baseline survey, implementation of routine data collection; annual
evaluation and reporting. The MEA would work with, and train a
counterpart manager who would subsequently assume responsibility for the
ongoing M&E program and organization. It is expected that a
microcomputer would be used for the compilation and analysis of the
database; and
(e) Short Term Advisors would also be provided for a total of some 52 months
and would include consultants in specialized areas such as
administration, manpower development, training, communication,
publicity, production of audio-visual aids, livestock development and
extension, and specific subject matter needed to fine-tune the
capabilities of key local extension personnel at the field and MALD
headquarters.
11.       The EU would also include MALD staff to assist the ACES with the
implementation and operation of NAIERP and the national extension system. These
staff would be of two types: those providing continuing technical and
administrative support for the ACES, and others required during some or all of the
project period to undertake or assist with specific aspects of project
administration. Staff in the first category would include, in addition to an
administrative assistant, the following personnel:
(a) A Subject Matter Specialist in Extension Methodology and Extensior.
Staff Training, to be trained by the EMA, who would, in due course,
provide technical guidance and support to the ACES, REOs and DEOs in the
operation of the T&V system throughout Tanzania, with particular
reference to planning and monitoring visit schedules, extension staff
training and the carrying out of the various workshops;
(b) M&E Officer, to be trained by the MEA, who would be ultimately
responsible for managing the M & E staff and system nationally. This
officer, who would be included in the EU under the general
jurisdiction of the ACES acting as NALERP coordinator, would report
technically and administratively to the head of PPMB; and
(c) The Head of Farmers Training and Information Unit (currently known as
Farmers Education and Publicity Unit) who would be responsible for
planning and delivering farmer training courses and seminars in Farmers
Training Centres, and for preparing and distributing or delivering
published educational and training material (brochures, visual aids,
video shows etc.) for farmers and extension workers.
12.      In the second category of EU staff, a Supplies Officer and an
Accountant would be seconded temporarily to the EU. They would ensure that
the inputs required by the project are procured locally or internationally
and distributed to users according to plan, that records of project
expenditure are correctly maintained and that expense and other reports are



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
produced when due. In addition, these two officers would ensure that MALD
staff in the regions and districts also follow the procurement ant
accounting guidelines required by the project. Both officers would follow
basic MALD procedures and would work in the offices of the MALD Supplies
Officer and Chief Accountant respectively.
Regional Set-Up
13.       At the regional level, the basic headquarters structure would be
repeated. The Regional Agricultural and Livestock Development Officer (RALDO)
would be administratively responsible for, and would supervise operations,
programs and projects headed by the following officers: (a) ' 'ional Extension
Officer (REO); (b) Regional Crop Services Officer (RCSO); (c) _egional Livestock
Services Officer (RLSO); and (d) Regional Officers in charge of M&E, the Inputs
Unit, Supplies Stores, Finance and Personnel. The RALDO would be supported by an
Assistant RALDO (qualified in a complementary discipline) who would deputize: in
the RALDO's absence, assist with the considerable burden of central regional
administration, and provide specified technical and administrative support in his
area of expertise. The RCSO and RLSO would be expected, in addition, to head at
least one of the units for which they are responsible. The units themselves, and
the members of staff in these units both at regional and district levels, would be
according to needs and the availability/sustainability of funds.
District Set-Up
14.       At the district level, the basic structure would be repeated once more,
but again officers would be appointed only accord.ng to needs. Thus the Distriet
Agricultural and Livestock Development Officer (DALDO) would be administratively
responsible for the District Extension Officer, the operation of the T&V system,
and the crop services and livestock services based in the district. Workload
permitting, the DALDO could also act as either District Crop Services Officer
(DCSO) or District Livestock Services Officer (DLSO). Again the DCSO and DLSO
would be expected to head at least one of the main subject areas under their
supervision.
Field Extension Staff
15.      Field extension staff would include extension workers at the regions,
districts, divisions and villages encompassed by the project. A brief job
description of the main field personnel is given below:
(a)  The Regional Extension Officer (REO) would be responsible to the ACES
for ensuring the effective implementation of the agricultural and
livestock extension program in his region, in close collaboration with
the RADO and RLDO to whom he would report administratively. He would
ensure that his regional subject matter specialists (SMSs) and the
District Extension Officers carry out their responsibilities and duties
according to plan and would provide the necessary guidance and
supervision. While the RADO and RLDO would be in overall charge of
MALD's regional agricultural and livestock operations, the REO would be



- 42 -
Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
delegated the necessary authority to manage the extension program on
their behalf. He would spend a significant proportion of his time in
the field to ensure that each component of the program is
functioning correctly. He would convene monthly workshops and
participate in seasonal zonal workshops, ensuring adequate
contribution by the local research institution(s). He would also
ensure that the inputs supply and demand position is monitored.
(b) Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) at regional and district levels
would report respectively to the REO and the District Extension
Officer. District SMSs would be responsible for providing
technical guidance and support to extension workers through
fortnightly workshops and field visits, and would refer problems
to and receive technical guidance from, the local research institute or
station. They would also organize and participate in farm trials.
Regional SMSs would provide the technical information ba-e for their
speciality and would work with research to develop messages for farmers
and prepare technical literature. They would also make field visits and
participate in fortnightly and monthly workshops. SMSs would be
appointed at regional and district level according to need but would
normally include experts in crop production, livestock production and
extension methodology and staff training, and would not exceed 3 to 5 in
each regional or district office.
(c)   The District Extension Officer would be responsible to the REO for
ensuring the effective implementation of the agricultural and livestock
extension program in his district, in close collaboration with the DADO
and DLDO to whom he would report administratively. He would ensure that
his DEOs, SMSs and VEWs carry out their assigned responsibilities and
tasks, and he would provide or arrange all necessary leadership,
training and guidance in technical, personnel and administrative
matters. He would spend about half his time in the field visiting
farmers, and supervising DEOs and VEWs. He would organize and lead the
fortnightly training sessions in his district, and ensure that
outstanding problems are referred to research, and that solutions reach
DEOs, VEWs and farmers.
(d) The Divisional Extension Officer (DEO), normally a diploma holder,
would guide, supervise and support the 8-10 VEWs for which he is
responsible. He would spend 80% of his time in the field supporting
VEWs, ensuring that visit schedules are maintained, and that advice is
appropriate, reaches farmers in each group, and is being acted on. He
would participate actively in fortnightly training sessions and
encourage VEWs to do so. He would also note the input supply and demand
situation and report it to the District Extension Officer or elsewhere
as instructed.
(e) The Village Extension Worker (VEW) is the cornerstore of the T&V
extension system. He has to teach farmers relevant technical skills and
motivate them to adopt message recommendations. He would divide the
farmers in his area in eight to ten groups, and would visit one of these



- 43 -
Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
groups, for one full day each fortnight, passing on messages and
receiving problems for resolution. He would also take part in
fortnightly training sessions to obtain recommendations for the
following fortnight and report problems to SMSs. He would monitor the
inputs supply and demand position, and report it to farmers, the DEO and
elsewhere as instructed.
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK KXTR1NION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF IN AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK DIVISION9 AT HEADQUARTERS AND IN
THE PROJECT AREA
HiQ          Region and          Division
District HQ        Ward/Village
Location       Crops  Livestock  Crops  Livestock  Crops  Livestock  Total
Dar es Salaam    37        30                                             67
Project Area
Arusha                             42        42      195       156       435
Dodoma                             58        27      140       146       371
Kagera                             35        26      149       104       314
Kilimanjaro                        67        50      236       171       524
Lindi                              35        18      102        40       195
Morogoro                           66        19      229       140       454
Mtwara                             31        10       79        70       190
Mwansa                             65        25      215       101       406
Rukwa                              23        13      136        80       252
Shinyanga                          46        23      166       114       349
Singida                            23        19      125        83       250
Tabora                             62        23      177       117       379
Total             37        30    553       295     1949      1322      4186
Degree holders                                 180
Diploma/Certificate holders:                 3,936



44-                          ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Description of Project Area
A. General
1.        The project, over an 8 year period, will encompass 12 out of the 20
administrative regions of the mainland. During the first project year,
rehabilitation activities will be initiated in the regions of Tabora, Singida ar.d
Dodoma, to be followed by Kagera, Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions in the second
year. In the third year, project activities will be extended to Rukwa, Shinyanga
and Mwanza regions, and finally in the fourth year, the Lindi, Mtwara and Morogoro
regions will be incorporated in the project area. A brief description of the
various regions is given in the following sections.
B. Tabora Region
2.        Tabora occupies 76,151 sq. km. of land divided into 5 districts: Tabora
Rural, Tabora Urban, Igunga, Nzega and Urambo. The region has 418 villages
grouped into 133 wards, and an estimated population of 1,204,00 in 1987, the
majority living in rural areas. The region lies within an altitude of 1,000 m.
Its soils consist mostly of sandy loams. Its natural vegetation is characterized
by Miombo forests with tsetse fly infestation towards the West and South; and
bushy and thorny vegetation in the East and the North. Annual average rainfall
ranges between 750 mm in the East and North to 1,000 mm in the West and South,
most of which falls between November and April. The region has abundant water
sources and is endowed with suitable areas for small-scale irrigation schemes.
3.        The most impQrtant cash and export crop of the region is tobacco with an
average yearly area estimated at 14,000 ha. producing some 8,000 tons (70% of all
tobacco produced in the country). In addition, some cotton is also grown. Major
food crops are maize, paddy rice, cassava and beans, mostly for home consumption
with only small quantities for sale. An estimated average of 10!,7000 ha of
maize, 21,300 ha of paddy, and 49,000 ha of cassava are grown each year.
Agricultural potential for this region lies in the promotion of tobacco, cotton,
and paddy.
4.        Livestock plays an important role in the region, with 1,415,000 (1984)
domestic animals, mostly cattle, sheep and gaats. Although there is a milk plant
in Tabora, collecting milk has been a problem. Moreover, the number of improved
dairy cattle is very small. Future potential of livestock lies in the promotion
of adequate husbandry, and the introduction of improved dairy cattle to supply the
growing demand for milk and milk products.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
C. Singida Region
5.        Singida is centrally located on the mainland.  It occupies 49,341 sq.
km. of land divided into 3 districts: Singida, Iramba and Manyoni, with 321
villages grouped into 85 wards. The region had an estimated population of 769,000
in 1987, of which more than 90 percent live in rural areas.
6.        Due to the tunreliable rainfall, major crops constitute sorghum, bullrush
and millet. Groundnuts and sunflower are also commonly grown. Maize is generally
grown under high risks of moisture stress. Sorghum is grown on an average of
34,000 ha, millet on 33,000 ha, and maize on about 18,600 ha. Cotton and tobacco
are newly introduced crops, and are grown only in the more favorable areas.
Future crop development would include the promotion of better yielding drought
tolerant crops for food security and sale, and of cotton and tobacco.
7.        The region ranks fifth in the country in the number of domestic animals
(1,697,300 in 1984), but most are traditional breeds. The region faces
overstocking problems; therefore, future improvement of livestock should include a
combination of measures of destocking and Improverent of existing breeds,
especially for meat production.
D. Dodoma Region
8.        Dodoma region is also centrally located, has a total area of 41,310 sq.
km., and is divided into 4 districts, namely, Dodoma Rural, Dodoma Urban, Mpwapwa
and Kondoa. Total population was estimated in 1987 at 1.24 million out of which
more than 88 percent are rural. The region is a plateau with an altitude of
1,000-1,500 m. The soils consist mostly of sands and sandy loams with isolated
stony and rocky hills. Natural vegetacion consists of Savanna grasslands with
thorny bush. Average yearly rainfall ranges between 600 and 750 mm. The region
has scarce water resources.
9.        Dodoma is the least developed region of the mainland, with major crops
consisting of drought tolerant crops, such as sorghum, bullrush and oil seeds.
Due to rainfall unreliability, overall yields fluctuate greatly from year to
year. Maize is mostly grown on an area of some 29,000 ha, in Mpwapwa District
which has relatively higher rains, and sorghum occupies some 37,000 ha. Grapes,
which have been recently introduced, are encouraged, and constitute the only
perennial and high value crop harvested twice a year. Although this culture has
potential, it is currently grown mostly in the town of Dodoma.
10.       Livestock is an important economic activity in the region, and in 1984
reached a total of 1.7 million animals (cattle, goats, sheep and pigs). However,
most of these animals are of local breeds and very few are improved dairy cattle
(some 2,178 in 1984).  The region suffers from overstocking which leads to soil
erosion. Therefore, future development of the livestock sub-sector should include
systematic destocking and upgrading of existing breeds for dairy and beef
production. A more intensive use of animal traction for farming should also be
promoted.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
E. Kagera
11.      Kagera region lies on the Northeastern port of the country.  It has an
area of 28,000 sq. km. of land and about 10,000 sq. km. of waters, largely Lake
Victoria, which is on its Eastern side. The region encompasses five districts,
namely, Muleba, Bukoba, Ngara, Karagare and Biharamulo. It has some 1,256,000
inhabitants and about 509 villages grouped into 103 wards and 23 divisions. The
region is heavily influenced by Lake Victoria especially in its Northern part,
where the scils are orthic ferrosols domirated by sandy clays. In its central
part, the soils are clayey while its southern part is dominated by a mixture of
clays and loamy sands. Average annual rainfall is 750-1,000 mm 4n the southern
and western parts, with rains reaching 2,300 mm on the lake shores; where it rains
nearly throughout the year. In the other areas, the rains start in October and
end in June. The average mean temperature is 26.5 C in the coolest month and 28 C
in the hottest month of September. The mean maximum temperature reaches 31 C and
mean minimum is 22 C.
12.      The high rainfall favours robusta coffee (intercropped with banana) and
tea-growing, while in the lower rainfall areas, cotton and beans are more
intensively grown. Tea farming is carried out on the northern lake shore, where
it is coupled with fishing. Farm sizes in theae areas average 2.5 hectares while
the southern part of the region the average farm size is 5.0 ha. The region
exports instant coffee and ranks first in surplus bean production. Coffee,
inteicropped with bananas, is yearly grown on an area of 63,000 ha.; beans on
94,000 ha.; maize on 31,200 ha; cotton on 14,500 ha; and tea on 1,200 ha. Average
yields are relatively low, and agricultural potential lies in a better crop
husbandry conducive to higher yields and incomes.
13.      Livestock is important in the local economy, and encompasses some 365,000
cattle. A more organized grazing, and the introduction of better animal husbandry
would increase farmers' income from this sub-sector.
F. Kilimanjaro Region
14.      Kilimanjaro lies in the northeastern part of Tanzania.  The region is
dominated by the extinct volcano of Mount Kilimanjaro (5.9 km. high), encompasses
plains at an elevation of between 900 to 1,200 meters, is divided into 5
districts, namely, Moshi, Hai, Rombo, Same and Mwanga, and extends over an area of
more than 13,000 sq. km. The region has 350 villages grouped into 98 wards, and a
total population of 1.34 million (1987) of which 1.05 million live in rural
areas. Except for the bare rock found at higher levels, top soils are mostly
dominated by clayey deposits. Annual average rainfall varies between 400-500 mm
in the plains, to 2,500 mm in the southern slopes of Mount Kilimanjaro. The area
has two rainfall seasons: the long season from March through May, and the shorter
and less intensive season from October through January.
15.      The Kilimanjaro region grows coffee for cash earnings, and maize, bananas
and beans for food. The cropping pattern consists of intercropping with coffee



rage 4
- 47 -
and bananas. Over 60 percent of the farms are under 2.0 ha. with an average farm
size of 1.1 ha. Coffee yields vary considerably, averaging 370 kgs./ha. Banana
yields are more stable, averaging 500 bunches per hiectare. Future development
should include the promotion of more intensive and regular use of modern inputs
for coffee and bananas.
16.      Kilimanjaro has about 410,000 heads of cattle mainly for milk
production. The region has also 221,000 sheep, 431,000 goats and 29,200 pigs. In
this region also, more advanced animal husbandry would benefit animal keepers.
G. Arusha Region
17.       Arusha lies in the northern central part of Tanzania, is
dominated by the Ngorongoro crater- a large heritage of wildlife reserve-
the extinct volcano of Mount Meru (4.6 km high), and to a lesser extent by
the volcanic Mondull mountains. The plains north and south of Mount Moru
reach 1,240 meters. The region encompasses 82,000 sq. km., is divided into
7 districts, with some 439 villages grouped in 142 wards. Topsoils in most
of Arusha is clayey. The mean annual rainfall varies between 400-500 mm in
the plains, to 2,500 mm in the southern slopes of Mount Meru. There are
two rainy seasons: the long and intensive season from March through
May,and the less intensive and short one from October through January. The
mean temperature is 20°C; however, at higher altitudes, it drops lower.
18.      The main cash crops grown in the region are wheat and coffee.
Maize, beans, banana and sorghum are the major food crops. The average
farm size in the coffee/banana area is 2.0 ha., and field crops are grown
on some 56,000 ha.
19.      There are 1.9 million heads of cattle, 1.2 million goats; 750,500
sheep; and 29,600 pigs in the region. More than 90% of the animals are of
traditional breeds which produce low milk and meat yields.Major
improvements in farmer incomes could be reached through the promotion of
better animal husbandry, and the introduction of improved livestock breeds.
H. Ru1rwa Region
20.      Rukwa lies in the western part of tie country, and is divided into 4
district, namely, Sumbawanga Rural, Sumbawanha Urban, Nkasi and Mpanda. It has an
area of 61,635 sq. kim, and 338 villages grouped into 66 wards. Population was
estimated in 1987 at 662,000 people, the majority living in rural areas. The
region is mostly a plateau, lying between two Rift Valley lakes, namely Lake
Tanganyika in the West and Lak Rukwa in the East. The plateau ranges between
1,000-1,500 m. of altitude along the lakes and in the northern part of Mpanda
District. Soils consist of clays, sandy loams and clayey loams. Natural
vegetation consists of Savanna grasslands and forests. Average yearly rainfall
ranges from 900-1,000 mm, falling mainly between November and April.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page  5
21.      Rukwa, which is blessed with ample arable land and suitable climate, has
been recording rapid food grain surpluses of late.  Major food crops are maize,
cassava and beans, followed by rice, wheat, millet and sorghum.  An estimated area
of 60,000 ha. of maize; 38,000 ha of cassava; and 34,000 ha of beans is sown
yearly. Tobacco, the only export crop, is grown on an area of 1,330 ha. In
addition to tobacco, the region has a good potential for growing export crops such
as coffee and pyrethrum, which have proved to grow well in some highland areas.
Further diversification of the region's production is feasible and should be
undertaken.
22.      Rukwa has an animal population of 496,000 (1984), mostly consisting of
cattle, including a very limited number of dairy cattle (1,169 in 1984) in spite
of the favorable climatic conditions. The use of animal traction for crop
cultivation is increasingly becoming popular and should be promoted in the
future.
I. Shinyanga Region
23.      Shinyanga region has a total area of 50,781 sq. km. divided into 5
districts, namely, Bariad, Maswa, Shinyanga Rural, Kahama and Shinyanga
Urban. The region has 654 villages grouped into 105 wards, and an
estimated population of 1,757,000 in 19&7, out of which about 96 percent live in
rural areas. The region consists of a ilat plateau with an altitude of
1,000-1,400m. Soils consist of loamy sands, sandy loams and sandy clays. Due to
overgrazing and land clearing for cultivation, scarce natural vegetation is left,
except in Kahama District where native forests are tsetsefly-infested. Annual
average rainfall ranges between 600-1,000 mm, increasing westwards and falling
mainly between December and May. In general, most areas of the region fall within
the drought-prone zone of the country.
24.      Agricul...ure in Shinyanga is economically important.  Cotton, which is
grown on about 200,000 ha, is the major cash and export crop, the region being the
leading cotton producer of the country. Although the region ranks first in
cotton, cott'on yields are relatively low with an average of 300 kgs per ha. Major
food crops consist of cassava grown on an area of 59,000 ha; maize on 175,000 ha;
sorghum on 89,000 ha;and paddy on 44,000 ha. Agricultural potential lies in
introducing better crop husbandry and the use of modern inputs and plant
protection, especially for cotton.
25.      vhinyanga region ranks second in the number of animals, with some
3,249,000 cattle, sheep and goats. However, the number of improved dairy cattle
(2,661 in 1984), is very low. Future development of the livestock sub-sector
should be based on the promotion of improved animal husbandry and the introduction
of upgraded animal breeds for milk production.
J. Mwanza Region
26.      Mwanza has an area of 19,592 sq. km, is divided into 6 districts,
namely, Mwanza Rural, Kwimba, Magu, Geita, Sengerema and Ukerewe, and has
467 villages grouped into 159 wards. The region population was estimated



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
!'age 6
to be 1,861,000 in 1987. Mwanza is the third largest urban center in the
country with important commerce and industry. It is mostly a flat plateau
with an altitude of 1,000-1,500 m. Soils consist of loamy sands and sandy
loams with good drainage. The region has an average yearly rainfall
ranging from 800-1,000 mm, most of which falls between November and April.
The region is blessed with abundant fresh water, and rivers flowing from
the hinterland into lake Victoria.
27.      The region's main cash and export crop is cotton, while the main food
crops are cassava and sorghum in the drier areas, and paddy and maize in Geita and
Sengerema Districts which enjoy more favorable rainfalls. An average area of
77,000 ha of maize; 32,000 ha of sorghumi; and 32,000 ha paddy are grown yearly.
Cotton, which covers more than 36,000 ha, is a major foreign exchange earner in
spite of yields averaging only 400 kgs/ha. The introduction of a wider use of
fertilizers and plant protection especially for cotton, would easily improve
farmer incomes.
28.      Mwanza has large herds of domestic animals (cattle, sheep, goats
and pigs), totalling 2,178,000. Animal density is high (around 200 per
sq. km.), most of which concentrates in the eastern areas, resulting in
overgrazing and considerable loss of animals during the dry seasons.
Animal tra&ltion in farming, although encountered, is not yet fully
practiced. Future development of the sub-sector should be based on a more
rational grazing, better feeding, and a wider use of animal traction in
agriculture.
K. Morogoro Region
29.      The region has an area of 70,799 sq. km. divided into 5 districts,
namely, Morogoro Urban, Morogoro Rural, Kilosa, Kilombero and Ulanga.
The region has 459 villages grouped into 133 wards, and a population
estimated at 1,206,000 in 1987, out of which more than 85% live in rural areas.
The region lies within an altitude of 400-1,500 m., and rises to between
2,000-2,650 m. in the mountainous areas. Soils consist of fertile sandy loams and
loamy clays. Natural vegetation consists of bush and forests with grassland in
some areas. Annual average rainfall reaches 800-1,000 mm in the lowlands and
towards the western areas, rising to over 1,500 mm in the mountainous areas.
30.      Due to its fertile soils, favorable rainfall, and wide range of
altitudes, a considerable number of crops are grown in the region. Sisal,
the major cash and export crop, is grown or 21,500 ha., in large-scale
plantations. Coffee and cotton are grown on a limited scale by
smallholders, and cover some 2,500 ha each. Major food crops comprise
maize, paddy rice, sorghum, sugarcane (mainly grown on large-scale
plantations) with cassava, oil seeds and pulses. Maize is grown on an
estimated area of 83,000 ha, cassava on 22,000 ha, sorghum on 13,000 ha,
oil seeds on 5,600 ha, and pulses on about 17,000 ha. The region is also
one of the major suppliers of fruits and vegetables to the Morogoro and Dar
es Salaam urban centers. The region which is blessed with favorable



-50 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 7
climate and fertile soils, and is attracting an increasing number of farmers from
other densely populated areas. It could easily produce more, if more intensive
crop husbandry is adopted, and new crops such as exotic fruits and vegetables are
introduced.
31.      Morogoro is not one of the major livestock growing regions.  It
has a total of about 526,900 heads of cattle, sheep and goats. The
Government is encouraging dairy cattle keeping and the development
potential of this sub-sector is promising.
L. Mtwara Region
32.      Mtwara region occupies the southern corner of Tanzania, has an area of
17,750 sq. km., and comprises 3 districts, namely: Mtwara, Noeala and Masasi.
The region has some 490 villages, grouped into 97 wards, and a population of
913,000, of which 798,000 live in rural areas. Area soils consist of coastal
sands with sedimentary rocks which appear in some areas. Annual average
precipitation varies between 800 and 1,100 mm, with about 85% falling between
December and April. Temperatures vary little, with a mean annual temperature of
24.3 C.
33.      Most of the food produced in the region is used for subsistence.
The major part of the cultivated area is ra'nfed, but an increasing number
of villagers utilize ground water on the more fertile soils. Multiple
cropping predominates with cashewnuts as the dominant tree and cash crop.
Other crops include maize, legumes, sorghum, cassava and paddy. Cashewnuts
are grown on an area of some 88,000 ha; cassava on 36,000 ha; oilseeds on 172,000
ha; sorghum on 40,000 ha; and pulses on some 69,000 ha. In spite of its poor
soils, Mtwara appears to be the lowest region in the country in terms of
fertilizer application. Similarly, the region has the lowest number of animals of
improved breeds. Future agricultural development, therefore, would have to
concentrate on improved crop and animal husbandry, the eradication of the tsetse
fly, and the use of modern agrotechniques meant to raise productivity.
M. Lindi Region
34.      Lindi occupies the southeastern corner of Tanzania, has an area of 66,950
sq. km, and is divided into 4 districts, namely, Liwala, Kilwa, Nachingwea and
Lindi. The region has 359 villages grouped into 116 wards, and a total population
of 619,000, of which 570,000 are rural. Soils include loamy sands and clays
lying on a small procambian basement rock. The average yearly rainfall is 800 to
1,100 mm, falling mainly between December and April. The average mean temperature
is 24.3 C in June, the coolest month; and 27.5 C in December, the hottest month.
35.      Multiple cropping is practiced in the region.  The dominant crops
are: maize, cassava, sorghum, rice, sesame, oilseeds, and ptulses.
Cashewnuts are the main export crop. The average farm size in the upland



-.51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
areas is 1.35 ha, while in the lowlands it is 0.8 ha. Large percentages of the
agricultural production are consumed within the region, except cashewnuts which
are exported.  Cashewnuts are grown yearly on an area of about 1 ,000 ha.;
oilseeds on 119,000 ha.; cassava on 57,000 ha.; and rice on some 24,000 ha.
36.      Lindi region has a very low population of livestock due to tsetse
infestations. In 1984, there were some 6,200 cattle, 13,200 goats and 8,580
sheep. It is estimated that livestock did not increase significantly during the
last decade.  Future prospects of this sub-sector lie in the eradication of tsetsa
fly, and the promotion of goat-keeping.
ftiug AM. rAi Quracrlatin
ANWW   ROMMUMMU          Number of
2IM    A k     pa1dm  lsafall            U*ei& -viam tb Vhws -         &W
(Sq. 11 0OM) ( 00)   (Yr)
Tar      76.1      1,o   70-1.00  SO1 lam    5      19   L3   418   Ta, cttm,
o, d, -,
mods-   49.3        7t9   Me-O    d lom      3      a    aU s 31   hq.x lld,.
*  ~~~~~~Le,  ,n Mund
OIM      41.3     1,2'0    60040  Sn ad      4      21  101  43 S      m  balladi
GM* 1000                          4011146 ll
ad gon.
1Apx    23A.      1,'m   73-2,00 O =T o ad  5      23   IO   mg9     fas,, t ,
clAw la"                          -dm intin,
bmm ad bt,
KS2om    13.0     1,340    400  OM ad lam   4       25   98  350  Cat., adm,
ad 2,500                                   binin, ad b_m.
Ago"      .0       1,100   400M0  Csy, 1am    7     3D  142  439 cs, adS., sdm,
-d 2,5M  Md qla b1 0, b_ ad
SAM      61.6      G2   W00-1.,  Cup, S      4      1    66  338  1t1in, c_m, bm,
lS ad -                           rim, i_t, tUlt,
luxm                              -amu *ad Oda.
Rdaysp   508       1,757  WO.1,000  T__ u,    5     23  105   6.4  CAtt. _.,
NA -* cay                          =Ixm, ad dam
"NOMM    19.9     1,11  WI,0=    Mp _  ,  6        33   13   467  Cot=  -m.
mioy _M    '*W rim dA
.ami
1-_    70.8        I,'   8001,00  S  ICN ad  S 5         135  459  Sau, mem, mIam,
A                                  laow clays                         asim, rim, u.r,m,o
fuu"  .MMS
al_.b p.m
veatdm ad hnate.
1I1m     17.7       913  000-1UD,1   Gtd1    3  20    97  490 bmim, adam,
ad lam                            l_*, m
-m ad dam.
1I6L     66.9       619 II4,U109 _    s      4      29   U6   339 tze, _u,
ad cup                            Lm tis dam, -,
pdm .d msmma.
mmL   377.4      T3;       -               55                 M-



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training Guidelines
1.        General.  Training of extension staff should be based on an
assessment of staff performance, job description and profiles; and it
should be closely linked to career development and opportunities for
promotion.  Training impact should be assesseu annually, and training
programs updated regularly to reflect changes in needs.  Training might be
divided into the following main types:  orientation meetings, in-service
staff training locally and overseas, and farmers' training.  Details of the
various types of training under the project are given in an attachment to
this Annex.
2.        Orientation Meetings.  Pie-project orientation would be held for
all staff at the moment of introduction of the T&V system in a new region
and/or district (and also every year for new staff). Moreover, a general workshop
for senior headquarters and regional officers would be held to provide more
detailed orientation about the nature and implementation of the proposed project.
This orientation for senior staff should be held before the inception of project
implementation at the district level.  In addition to an explanation of the
strategies for implementing the project, this orientation should also include the
design of ways to upgrade technical knowledge and to train other staff in the art
of effective communication.
3.        With the introduction of each new district in the project, a
one-day orientation meeting would be held before starting up activities.
Participants would include the Division Extension Officer, SMSs, and DEOs,
while research staff would also attend as appropriate. During this
orientation meeting, special attention would be given to:
(a) the role and mechanisms of supervision of field work through
visits, and the importance of spending the bulk of working hours in
the field;
(b) how to select Contact Farmers, how to form farmer groups, and how
to decide on the ratio of VEWs to farmers;
(c) the strategy for the development of crop and livestock
recommendations and the improvement of extension-research linkages;
(d) details of how the FSR would be implemented, with special reference
to the use of farm trials;
(e) the crucial role of the SMS in the training of field staff and the
transfer of knowledge through monthly and fortnightly training; and
(f) the use of diaries and logbooks and the role and functioning of the
monitoring and evaluation system.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Officers would be divided, during these district orientation meetings, into
two groups: the DEOs would learn how to divide the area into units and
sub-units, how to select contact farmers and train field staff in selection
of contact farmers, and forming farmer groups, how to map out visit routes
and plan visit schedules. A second group, the subject matter specialists
and research staff, will focus on the process of generating technical
recommendations and defining the critical 'impact points' for use at regular
training sessions; identifying production constraints of different groups of
farmers; and identifying research results and recommendations that may be
applicable to specific farmers' situations. The outcome of this training will be:
(a) a list of specific recommendations for the next season according to the needs
of various groups of farmers, and (b) preparation of a plan for the orientation
course for field staff.
4.        VEWs will receive their orientation in a separate one-day
session, concentrating on the specific problems at the farm level. Besides
explanation of the T&V system and the major points stressed to the DEOs and
district SMSs, the orientation for VEWs will pay particular attention to:
a. mapping visit routes;
b. selection of contact farmers and forming farmer groups;
c. motivation of farmers;
d. the purpose and function of farm demonstrations and trials; and
e, the purpose and role of the VEWs' diary and log books.
5.       In addition, a half-day orientation meeting will be organized by the
district extension staff to farmers, members of District Councils, and Ward
Chairmen. These would be organized on a village basis, and should be attended by
50-75 farmers. During this orientation, efforts would be made to explain to the
farmers the extension methodology to be adopted, stressing especially the way
contact farmers and farmer groups would be selected and their role, the importance
of forming groups of farmers, and the fixed fortnightly schedule of the VEW.
6.        In-Service Training.  Before the start of the cropping season,
SMSs will organize, at the district level, three-day pre-season training
courses for field staff. These will cover the technology for the most
important crops and livestock and will be conducted with all field staff
from the district. The Assistant Commissioner for Extension Services (ACES)
will be invited to attend the inaugural session to stress the importance
Government is placing on the T&V extension system and the work of field staff.
The purpose of these sessions will be to provide an in-depth training experience
that is not possible during fortnightly sessions and to acquaint staff with the
overall program for the district. Where numbers of staff are too large and
facilities limited, it may be necessary to repeat this course in certain
districts.
7.        Fortnightly Training Courses  would be conducted for the VEWs and
DEOs at the district level and also attended by other staff, such as



-54-                           ANNEX 4
Page 3
cooperative and District Council officials.  This training would be
organized by the Diatrict Extension Officer together with SMSs.  A major
component of this one-day session is devoted to technical instruction on
the key recommendations for that period for the main crops and livestock.
Part of the time is spent doing actual field work so that field staff are
able to do the things they will be telling farmers in the next cycle of
*        visits.  Staff will be trained to take account of the interactions of
different crops and agronomic operations as they compete for scarce labor.
The implications of family cash and nutrition needs will also be
considered. Frontline staff will learn to understand farmers' perceptions
and constraints and the implications of recommendations. They would also
learn about preparation and use of learning materials, group interaction,
and communications.
8.        These training sessions should not be one-way flows of
information. Each session should include a discussion on events of the
past two weeks highlighting probless experienced with previous
recommendations and immediate conc'rns such as credit, labor availability,
pests, diseases, input supply, transport, and marketing; questions on
these are either answered or returned through the monthly workshops to
research or to other institutions through the district office. Trainers
listen to and learn from frontline staff. Because of this training and
interaction, field staff are able to approach farmers with confidence,
secure in the knowledge that they have mastered the technology that is
relevant and appropriate for coming weeks. At these training sessions, the
District Extension Officer keeps records of the verbal information given by
the DEOs and VEWs about credit, input supply, and marketing problems, and a
close contact with these services is maintained. The monitoring staff will
collect the data from the VEWs' logbook at these sessions.
9.        Monthly Workshops for District SMSs would be organized by the
Provincial Extension Officer and provincial SMSs. Selected research scientists
from regional and, whenever feasible, national research stations, would
participate as trainers. Other trainers may also be invited as necessary.
Participants would be the district SMSs, and representatives of other
organizations involved in input supply, credit, and marketing. These would be
one-day sessions. The main objective would be to decide on the message for the
next two fortnightly sessions and to prepare the transmission of these messages to
field staff. These sessions would involve considerable practical work and would
require staff to prepare lesson plans and learning materials for the coming
month. The experience of the previous month and work on field trials would also
be reviewed. These monthly workshops would require considerable planning and
preparation. Trainers would need to spend time in the field before or after the
workshops to visit field staff. These workshops should preferably be held at a
research station where field work is possible and occasional visits to other sites
might be planned.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
10.       Refresher Courses for SMSs  would be aimed at:  (i) upgrading
their stock of technical knowledge; and (ii) teaching them to train other
staff in the art of effective communication.  Before such training can be
designed, however, it will be necessary to determine the crops and
livestock for which there are sound technical recommendations and the
relevant "impact" points. This information will be required for each of
the districts in which the T&V system is implemented. To this end, each
district will form a team which would visit local and other research
stations, as necessary, and compile a technical report proposing:
a.   crops and/or livestock to be included in the extension package in
the district;
b.   "impact"  points for each of the crops and livestock; and
c.   a suggested field demonstration program.
For each crop this would include crop varieties, planting dates, seedbed
preparation, rates and spacing, fertilizers and their times and methods of
application, bird/insect/disease control (both culturally and chemically),
and all other growing or processing practices applicable to that crop. For
livestock and poultry, the techaical information would include the production
practices of feeds and feeding, breeds, pasture, herding, pest and disease
control, and any other practice as required. The approved recommendations would
then serve as the basis for the SMSs' refresher courses. After these courses,
SMSs would have to instruct extension staff, monitor possible problems and relate
back to research any acquired field experience. Such courses could only be
required in special identified cases, where a detailed follow-up is called for.
The courses would be restricted to selected SMSs in selected areas.
11.       Extension Methodology Courses  would be provided to DEOs and VEWs
in groups of 20 to 25. The overall objective of this training is to make
extension officers more competent and effective as trainers. This course should
be aimed at improving the ability to ask questions and conduct discussions with
trainees and farmers; plan and conduct skill-oriented practical training and
plan, prepare and use available learning material and visual aids.
12.       Exchange Visits of Extension Staff to similar zones in other
districts would be arranged periodically because such visits can be most
useful and instructive; the extension staff should gradually acquire a national
experience, which would improve extension quality and flexibility end such visits
could create a healthy incentive to improve performance. These visits would take
two days, including travel, and consist mainly of field visits, with a concluding
session in which staff would be asked to summarize their impressions.



Sf -                            ANNEX 4
Page 5
13.       Overseas Staff Training would include visits to other countries
and short- and long-term fellowships. Selected key personnel will be given
opportunities for short-term visits to other countries such as India,
Kenya, Israel and Thailand for first-hand observations of operational
procedures, planning and execution of extension programs, and other
aspects of effective extension methodology. Countries selected for visits
will include those with projects where key staff may study implementation
of the T&V system and will have the opportunity to interact with staff who have
had several years of experience with this system. In order to upgrade the
extension system technical and training skills, SMSs and extension staff will be
sent on fellowships abroad for further training. This willi generally be
short-term training but would also include a few longer-term courses in
agricultural extension, agricultural management, and other subjects in Europe and
the U.S. This will provide a strong incentive to staff to perform better. It is
proposed that selected extension SMSs be sent to relevant international extension
and research institutes. SMSs would attend either formal courses of some 2-3
months or, if it can be arranged, they would be attached to work in the cropping
systems sections of these International Institutes for a full crop season. A few
staff, primarily those responsible for the organization of training and for the
training of trainers, would be sent on courses specializing in extension
methodology. Suitable courses of between three and nine months might include the
Universities of Wageningen, Svdney, or Reading.
14.       Farmers' Training sould include, in addition to the above
detailed orientation, specific refresher courses in innovative production
techniques that would be given during the growing season in "doses"of 2
hours each. Farmers could be trained in groups of 30-40 with the help of
the mobile training unit and on demonstration plots. This type of training
would also include farmers not directlv reached through farmer groups and
who might benefit from such extension work.



- 57 -
sum IF    Uatu  IUSU              tinU uEmI  UUw3l  USa nbu   iwo                            uguasess
Sf831  msD uian.                                                    n
biaw -~ 0 own1 'dvm    iw, t                    Vwi    I ati        Is  *      8I" of
mm~~~~~~~. .__
tSri fw ts doll            ON
SisslatIs            *          i~~~~M  isiuIet   Sul.   IA  a5In
b le . Iubsis U                        Sllt  t    ,     uIti-                                                        " i
eU~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6                 1 1111
liltivuesi)k                                b      $^        8   
hf'ggbw  *          S         *       a      tlilt   Vwit  I a          IP.                         6.41
SW  '       *     *           *       U itletg   Id                   0 M a.      U                1- *d SikiaMga w
~~~~~~~uebSt,  **  W.~
tUt_l ~~~~~~~~~~~v.    tliiv                                                                  sb"fl_7vXVh I-*t
Ptlim -          u lui  lush                        hum. Otl   .    leIull       81                          Iled  ful *
Bet burn          buss      Uim,i    M. su           listlakt 3-1 4      .         Ui                                  . *asinI
L. M M    (     . 511,5st, fint t"    s
'tburn       - uss    -U             * SI.  .   uitles) iaUa.        w           su
-4j8 st alum                          & lalw.i     tee                                 ^                              P' F, *s  
luSt              whti bush al        Sat ei_hlm VA   511w.   a|X                                  ausi_-   *   
wInes* uI NtN   *t
~   j~BwIAaI pissed   .lm inshbI  w                                   bb.I6                       W di '.tsi,b"ee
W id-iS.-                                                            mulsi         sitt
t4                                  .hwSISA                        Ice, Illl  tltts efwe ,  
*    s            livdal US             U. S shIa                     IiU                          I.-        Muistedins
lugmamtlas   La                                      buurI~~~~~am   bom, d
.   I.                                                                                                gm    I tto ail  gm" X 1   ln   v  
*L  iuMUiaff. IUs alW *Ad ts Sm  edilel ItKiM 6*. Ki 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ie C1it0t1
*  Stub*i Sm e    bilvdauG   Als, sl  t l.jd o s iat * us     I di    Is        (vdeflt           Ii.       tBit, mn
fowl                             Am.~~~~~~~~~~helCat
Se.nas            BZ u     msts.  mI   I.Ieinne  mallet  Iv0 ts       I     .     2 lim tt leeS    lAM.
i.LsIauiInI 0w*~   de    Is            ewd             N.
luIuusatlm  lndl,ldAI*ll        I  laheei  KAtIe.) 2 do        Is 
Sunet Seuacsas 
jil  541.IN    [     lurs    4 
mus buisso ust      s tatjs itl   all emu .stue iri catS VAtun    z1    u hoi    lfor  Am.-   ,, 1
I ftvmm O    fear go. to 51 Tons, it - i. aI  ml.*Is . Is* wte iu.sttM. ?i-li; i to, Ws  S.
Q. S  arns  ub"sr s   ab itsve. (Ti s. it-me. *mu1. 14-10. Vs It. de* la. VI-Is. la-i)
htusIaglucL   l Stins) asemtamlse M ts # e.Shwifdlis aSW Sesiong oil, be s jqa1us,g a5s le $eist seated heel ci itc.



Annex 4
- 58 -                     Attachment 2
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROPOSED LOCATION OF    MONTHLY WORKSHOPS
Region       Associated Research Centre                   Place of Workshop/
District
Tabora       Tumbi Tobacco research Institute            Tabora
Mpwapwa and Kongwa                          Urambo, Ngega,
Livetock Research Institutes                Igunga
Dodoma       Ilonga Research Institute, Kiloss           Dodoma Rural
Hombolo Substation, Dodoma                  Kondoa
Mpwapwa and Kongwa Livestock Res. Inst.    Mpwapwa
Singida      Ilonga Research Institute                   Singida Rural
Mpwapwa Livestock Institute                 Iramba
Singida Urban
Manyoni
RukwZa       Uyole Agricultural Centre                    Sumbawanga
Nkasi, Mpanda
Shinyanga    Ukiriguru Research Institute                Kahama
Shinyanga
Maswa, Bariadi
Meatu
Kilimanjaro  Lyamungu Research Institute                 Moshi, Uai
West Kilimanjaro Livestock Centre           Rombo Same
Mwanga
Mtwara        Naliendele Research Institute               Mtwara, Newala
Masasi
Lindi        Naliendele Research Institute                Lindi, Kilwa
Nachingwea
Liwale
Mwanza       Ukiriguru Research Institute                Mwanza, Magu
Misungwi
Mabuki Livestock Centre                     Kwimba, Geita
Sengerema, Ukerewe
Morogoro     Ilonga Research Institute                    Morogoro, Kilosa
Kazrmn Research Centre                      Kilombero, Ulganga
Kongwa Livestock Research itation
Arusha       Selian Wheat Research Institute              Arusha, Arumeru,
Lyamungu Research Institute                 Monduli, Mbuli,
NAIC Usa River                              Ngorongoro, Hanang
Babati, Kiteto



-59 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Consultancy Services - Terms of Reference
1.0       Extension Methodology Specialist (EMS)
1.1       Job Description.  The main responsibility of the EMS would be to advise
and assist extension staff. both at the HQ and in the project area, in the design
and implementation of a suitable extension methodology along the T&V system,
modified to reflect local conditions. Specifically, his responsibilities would
include:
(a) Help design, whenever necessary, an extension methodology along the
T&V system suitable for the various project areas, and supervise its
implementation;
(b) Coordinate a two-way flow of information on training necessities and
opportunities between the Extersion Unit and the Research and Training
Division;
(c) Advise in the production and/or provision of extension aids, and approve
their use in extension;
(d)  Participate in the monitoring and evaluation exercises; and
(e) Conduct courses, seminars and workshops in extension methodology.
1.2       Qualification and Experience.  The EMS would have a post-graduate degree
in Agricultural Extension and at least five years experience in a leading position
related to field extension management in a developing country, preferably under
the T&V system. Knowledge and understanding of the Tanzanian agricultural and
extension system would be an advantage.
2.0       Finance Specialist (FS)
2.1       Job Description.  The FS would act as financial and accounting advisor
to the Assistant Commissioner for Extension Services (ACES), the Head of the
Finance and Administration Unit and the consultants' team. He would also liaise
closely with the Procurement Specialist in all matters concerning the procurement
of inputs under the project, and the wider aspect of procurement and budgeting.
Specifically, his responsibilities would include:
(a) Reviewing accounting and financial control systems in use and ensuring a
sound accounting system is implemented whenever necessary;
(b) Determining the requirements of MALD and of the new EU for adequate
financial control and management information; bearing in mind these
requirements, designing dedicated systems and procedures, determining



- 60 -                                ANNEX 5
Page 2
detailed tasks, a program of work, skills and staff needed; assist with
implementation of the above and the setting-up of a computerized
accounting system;
(c) In accordance with needs, assisting with the election and recruitment of
local accounting staff for the purpose of implementation; advising on
their training requirements; and assisting in supervising their work;
(d) Participating in the preparation and review of the annual budget
proposals, and ensuring with the Head of the Finance and Administration
Unit, its orderly consolidation and presentation to MALD;
(e) Ensuring with the Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist that extension
planning and evaluation procedures interface efficiently with accounting
procedures; and
(f) Assisting the Procurement Specialist as required with the financial
aspects of procurement; ensuring that procurement and financial
procedures interface efficiently.
2.2       Qualifications and Experience.  The FS should be a qualified accountant
(CA, CPD, ACCA) with at least ten years post qualification experience. Extension
knowledge and experience of computerized accounting systems is essential as is
experience of implementing manual and computerized systems in developirg
countries, preferably Africa. Previous experience of externally funded projects
and knowledge of Kiswahili would be useful.
3.0       Procurement Specialist (PS)
3.1       Job Description.  The PS would:
(a) Ensure that inputs financed by the project are obtained when planned and
in accordance with IDA guidelines or those of the relevant funding
agency;
(b) Design and document (in a manual), and assist in selecting staff to
carry out procurement procedures including: internal ordering/
recording (e.g., for stock), local and foreign purchasing, import
clearance and receipt/verification, supplies selection, and negotiation;
and
(c) Carry out, or arrange for, such training as is needed to bring the staff
engaged in procurement up to a satisfactory level of competence,
liaising as needed with suitable local and foreign training
establishment.
3.2       Qualification and Experience.  The PS should be an experienced
procurement manager of at least five years standing, a member of the British
Institute of Purchasing and Supply or the equivalent, conversant with
international procurement systems and practices, in a major national or
l



- 61 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 3
international private sector company or procurement agency. Previous experience
of an externally funded project and of a developing country would be desirable.
4.0       Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist (M&ES)
4.1       Job Description.  The M&ES would assist the EU in establishing effective
M&E units at the HQ and in the regions under the project; in implementing an M&E
system capable of guiding the day-to-day management of the project; and
periodically assess project impact on macro-objectives and institution-building
goals. More specifically, the M&ES would:
(a) Assist in design and supervision of implementation of a sound M&E
system;
(b) Help technical officers to define their work programs in the context of
the overall project strategy and to develop suitable indicetors which
may be used to monitor and assess project's performance;
(c) Train M&E officers to conduct surveys that would yield rapid and
relevant information;
(d) Compile periodic summary reports from the regional M&E surveys and
ensure dissemination of the survey findings to senior officers in the
MALD and the MALD's Management Team; and
(e) Take a leading role in annual and mid-term reviews.
4.2       Qualifications.  The M&ES would have an advanced degree in economics,
statistics, or relevant social science, with at least five years experience of
conducting rural surveys, or of monitoring and evaluation in Africa. A knowledge
of survey systems (sampling, data collection data processing and analysis) is
essential, as is familiarity with the use of micro-computers. Experience of
managing an agricultural or extension development project and of the applying of
modern management techniques to such projects would be a distinct advantage.



TAN IA
NATIONI. AtIILTIWAL A  LIVESTOCK EM ION REIMILITATION PECt
shA y ACCOUNTS COST SIR
(TSHS '000)                                    fUSS '00)
Z Total                                    I Total
2 Foruign Omsa                              Forein  ksa
Local     Forein    ToWl    Eieha     Costs   Local Foreign   Total  Exchbn     Costs
:zu:zznu =5::55555  382us             5m   :53552  S:naza  ^5:c ::z   :z55a: Zg:u3c:5 :m555
I. NJIESTNET COSTS
A. CIVIL W                                1530722   102,048.2  255,120.4        40       10 1t611.3  1,074.2  2.685.5       40      10
D. EUIPENT AND FURNITUlE                    9,385.2  237,920.0  247205.2         96      10    98.8 2,503.4 2.602.2         96      10
C. VEHICLES                                      -  5169924,7  516.924,7        tO0     21        - 59441.3  SU441.3       100      21
9. TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE                          -   1,5000.0  195,000.0        100      8        - 2,052*6 2,052.6        100      8
E. TRAINING                               250,o22.B  133,26.4  38358992          35      16 29635.0  10402.8  49037.8       35      16
Total INESTINT COSTS                         412,780.2 1,185,059.3 14S7.839.¶       74     65 4,345.1 12,474.3 16,919.4        74     65
Physical ContaireCais                      43,8790   27,156.1   71035.1          38      3   461.9   285.9   747.7          38       3
Price Comti.eics                          389771*9  981,220.71370.M95            72      56   460.8  1,148.t  1608.9        71       6
Total INICDIN  CONTINGENCIES                 846,431.0 291939436.1 3,039,87.1       7      124 5,267.8 13S908.3 19,176.0       73     7S
It, KCIIRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                t
A, VEHICLE WERATION AN  MAINTEACE        157,4802  367,453.7  524.933.?         70      21  1657.7  3,867.9 5t525.6        70      21
B. EQUIPIEN  tWEATION AID INTENANCE       12.736.3  105,746.5  119.482.8        89      5   134.1  1.113.1  1,247.2        B9       5
C. SAARIES AND MAGS                      136438.4           -   136,438.4        -       6  1t436.2       -  19436*2        -       6
0. BUILDING PAINTENANCE                   12,277.8    8G1852   20.463.0         40       1   129.2    96.2   215.4         40       1
Et OFFIE SUPPLIES                          1.672.0    4,693.0    6,365,0        74       0    17.6    49.4    67.0         74       0
F. RENTAL CHWES                            6,762.6   33.393.9   40,156.5        83       2    71.2   351.5   422*7         63       2
Total RECISE   COSTS                         3279367.3  51994n.3  846.8396          61     35 39446.0 5,468.1  9,914*1         61     35
Ptysical CantiniCies                       25,745.9   43F904.4   695.3           63      3   271*0   462.2   733.2          63      3
Price Cntilnoies                          485,190.5  731,506.8 1,216,705.3       60     50   629.9   94.1  1,577.9          60       6
Total INCILING CONTINGCIES                   B398311.7 1,2949B83.6 2,133.195.2      61     87 463468 6,879.3 119225.2          61     44                                '
=2:222=2  ====  2uusm=vn nazuc      zan=3n   ==asDa   ==a=an  =:::::a asa=uS  Zz==aG:: C------
Total MELDNE COSTS                           740147.5 1704,531.6 2,444,679.1         70    100  7,791.0 17,942.4 25733.5        70    100
Physical Cmtingmcies                        699624.9   71,060.5  140,65.4         51      6    732.9   748.0  1.400.9        51      6
Price Contingcis                           874,9702 12727.6 2587697.8             66    106  1090.7 2,096.2  3186.9          66      12                               o
~~~__ ____                                                                _                                              _ _ _
Total PROJECT COSTS                        1,684,742.7 3488,319.7 5.173.062.3        67    212 9.614.6 20,786.6 30,401.2       68    118e
_5219 85:          u =   5   _ 5                                  :: zaflzaan f=#5zafl5 352558C
lleumi 2. 19981 15:09



INATISAL ARIW TURI L T AND MMUVESTOIX EXTE1 IUON W ILITATION MJEYT
Pro.. ct Cowwents bw Year
Totals Inct.ufm   Contingancs                                                        Totals Insdiul tCotitmtes                           0'
(TSS '000)                                                                           (tUi '000)
M81M      8"         0l    91/92        92ts3    93/4       94s       9/96      TOt    l 8/9           /9     991   91I92   92/93   93/94   94ns s/6   Total
:=:=:=   =::==   22=::2 :2 ::=:.===  =9=:====  2s:sc::   222  5 222: c=55===:=:_=r    9n :=n                    =:22  92 5_        2 ===9=   ==-=      22nZ3
A. EXTEION OrIZATION AND  AVAEN             3513n.9 396931.i 5709433.2 729.*41.9 374,2.9 4069207.9 452t991.7 491,511.5 3775,508.9  3.301.6 29982.4 3,617.2 4.067.0 19930.3 1,990.6 20W.9 29142.2 22,109.1
B. STFF AND FIERS TRAINING                   629416.6 1549450.1 157,474.1 152,469.6 117.h11.1 129,270.3 141.045.6 131P900.7 1o046.5459    579.9 1,162.2  999.6  851.3  606.1   63.3  650.2  574.9  6.053.3
C. TEOIUCAL ASSISTANCM                       64*975.0  59,231.2  33,069.9  380780.6   0.683.1  199425.7  219368,2  23.505.0  351,007.6    603.?  445.7  209.7  216.5   467.5    94.7   99.5  102.4  2,233.7
Totl URUECT COTS                              492,764.6 6109040.4 760o?76.4 929.69242 5928462.3 514.M03.8 615.305,5 u697.2 5.173.062.3  4,495.2 4,590.3 4925. S ,134.6 3,003.9 2M705.6 2*9 5 2.19.5 30.i401.2
:=.::=::=  =:=:=:=:  :2:-mm, m:m :: ====9=mmm   ==5=:9=99 =99=m=: minism.  mSm999smm D  m-9-=m9 m: l 99l l 955                 _=22   =====2m  5:2t:=9  :Sm    2
Dft_ _ __ _ __ _ __ __*h__ __u_ 2__ 1998_ __                                                                                                                                    _        _:
Dr t IS l5:09~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
*"1
* 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!



nf...... ..... . ...... ....  .* .     .........
out,0445   US £01  04C 0p 300. I 31104111
MW    01     1   oI   01       1   00   LI   51
MN    4    "0.  0-"  90    go   Ill  05    S
m          5 S u 1   060  $so  set  44  tit  .                   oil     mel  m    m    m    m          -1  am    a                                     111111a  
0*r001r0  4   sim.   04401                 C 000                             0         -*                  4          -             0go                    sm50*
00    01   0*  0V,4  0 01*  00   00 0                            1            *     *     a     a     a     s     o                                 4 
01    **~~   *    01    0;~  .... ..... **   .               .r                                                                             no. #: :1:,4:    : 
004   044   oa   055   O Va   "Sa  01`  40  4                           ee           0     0    0anon*0 44
15   014  014014  014  01   OW   05 4M   6143  * 01%,so   t                          l    %   o%mlon4t
0*    C    41  LWu     0   :1044 C    014 010   M   aon5 1                                                                                      0101, man      4.
01     SW1   us 014  00    M0  Sat 01 VW  .1I00                                 a                 a     agg  90                                               
#151 0400101.4...... . ....        ...014    414 .1 .......w                                                                                     S11111 lm e00o
015  OW  I"   Su  0go    41           U O        1                   1       00*100   *111*1*1   40*                                0muouau1.111
01501    LU04            M CU    4144   500                                *1 40    4    4    4    *            0 00 *                                     09115m411
0101*0 So On5 l   tin 0044   0 14001510150151
0*0104*   0U   LII  000  *  -It. !2!L !-I014C                                                                                                        -    e
.........                                                                                                                                          441005   O.*
AND0  010 UNa0001    14lL    1
0001  .    .    .  .    0050&m   01010 *u   .014                                                                                     Mii    m
no5   .                        10  00    1    1                    014 is,.                    .          44I,4    4    44    44so141m 13mMo
OR          .          .      4to   go5 so5  014                                                                                                   *   Isal o01.
0*01    .  .  ~ ~. ............ .1 ... ......   .......                                         .     4     0           4      000 0 1
01510505   1    1    C0    *                    :114 
*0   000014   CU   010  00410*013014              0100ag                                                  It. U U 0    0  0    C 0  00  aim5an0300
$u    .... .         ...  ess..  .-     .        dis0.......*
00    .    .   ~   ..  .....    .....                                                                                          in 10  0  0 3  11100  040M 04m m 1A
15tmB *0 0US*0
$*    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~*                                             III        now3*     ~   40
00  .    .  .    41   Cl   55   01          00      IC     .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~~~.   .     ....   .   .. N, .... .... .... .m...5 00
CC    .    -    .    .-am 40 0W1u14                                    4                            --M  0m   we   Wm   00o0o303
41"Ofte ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ 04*4 0615* 
9  xeuuv              tmnww~. 0wo"9            11 110 SOON0505*
038   .    .    .    *44   .    .    ~~.  04.4 66so  wehmm   oe



Annex 6
ijWe 6of 16
- 65 -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~."". ..,.,...,..... !M!n.t.,, "*ea''   ... .....
z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ,, iawi
-2t. lT            ' .            ....ee
G~~~~~~~m    mU. Mc 0' U. -i d.S  -* Ie   _e me   :W  U'.USII'. '. 6'. 6'.U'. :4  :4M                                        _c  :,._ U. !:.ur   '
a.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~o tt mis*                                                                               "  *,              .     
'.3510~~~ ~ ~~~~~ it  45                                       **_w .  .5OU       .   .   .i            e,          a       m
useaemm              _          s                                                    ._.   W. I.wc      . . .       .                    3     . . . _s_  .  . .
mm~~~~~~~~~ ,   5                                            . .551                . .    as  . 9 .. *  *   *   *
5~~ ~ ~ ~ .U ,61w   ,Sit .   . *                                    _      -  *
m          *                   *     *   C                             a                 cc..                -         *   *  6  *55                            e
m e m   t  ' U =                     * ,  .                   ,        ......................................                                             .
L s      , n 2L m'
-                              U         5   -                         4  *MB           m l           _         .-  .m       .  __  _ ,,, ___ _ _
h'.sati.eu~ ~~ ~ ~ ~       ~ me                           .@    _c -                                   5n* -    5p* * *            * c's
*_ _ _ ~_ __:-                                                 C     ''--U    .  gl|:  , s;.*  .  .  .  .    :m                                    *|
F---~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            U                 .  *     e                        so                        *   a   "' *#*--***!i^,*z8d@&j*-
_UU -=                         *                                        S*_@_@_@s*_*_*Xsss 47.g* _as  *@@@ta
-~~~~~~~~~ a .                                                   I   U  -.    .      }astas$ *  z$     *s      :z 
. .                                                                       .. . .
*.I    s.C                       .   B se .                              .  ct.ez *    z  w* 
"is a*                                                  a
mU_ m i Ze - e e zs e * n s  'U                                                                .*  .* .t                                                       6 * ^%e* t : ^ s aF T
tmmumm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~z *^$**|*ez> .           . a  s.c    _,   . .
Cm'u                                                                    a a.me    . . e *                              a                     e n ss ta 0.   'L '* at .
us .F. e _ . . ".n .. ! ".'.'.!       :! ..I                                  Iwo  ...! 2      .'     :                           . aIt :                      U!_
0 LO        gfl* IWO   .          f        I10 S. emt. .'a1A A  "o ILI,I
am. de.gm.......... .......
* * * tEl t@| ses.* .ess.  a,^sasapa.
.. e .                                                          .. e .* e. .* ,          2 .       n. sieCc5leSl *    a. aa se 11 1"at
f f_mm_ 's n '.                                                                                           m       ~s m*  il '.0, t       sac '.s m.  L &s 'M
-    0|W_Z| em               n;      ae                                          a" n; *I*;  L; *            a; U. s   .  _ m
use,ga ,U _U a'.          ~             *   * .ua  *                sa   U    83.1  ~*   US UC lie a. me me me  Sm  me  a.m.a. mama as I                      . m
sum                                                                                       .-.~~~~~~m                                        
W    s0 "I    a       e5           U     .       6    0C   16  a, aaSt        s  ata.eo  &a '    .   .6l         L .  me   a
1  *   *     *   6   U    ml    a~~~~~~~~~~~St,IL Gas s W a 6   MLc I. OIG    L   as- 2L5    tLB I  ;.L* GM6 I~ OILI £LCL
as    35  a,  *.       *                U       '      aet.   e.                     as  AlU4  15.5I  mc me me as1 at: Al as  '
-                                   *   ,~                   IS      ti   55    s as tie me as       a   In    S$, at  as4 go a   Is sat me   s sat
-                  U   JU                  1 J 5-a .   555     IL5 etC  -8 Waea *m   *    1   I em    .a
seumesM  ~~~~~~~~~~~O                   Is'U'U is   U I   a   55         5g   to   to c        toi to  s.  S.    t   .       a. sLc -as 5-S     '.5 a   as  4a
a.  m m   USC'.                          .  .   .   NO      U    ace~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .. .. .. .... .. ... ..   *..... 5 m56'5 .    1
'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                      N U     "I H "
'U  U  *   *  g ~~~~~~~~  e ~~~    as    .,   .a  cc  ~~~~~~~~e  so  s~~o 'Lo  is   LSsc   a  Is   a a. s.c    StA5
amem   ew      *m'.   m'U   mm   t   s.IU                     s.c  me ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ci. si. cit us.: me 'laUSl cia  a: :p: a: ac 01  L:  1,1,41,*:m:mc  m 1
ucuin  '  U  U   S   U   U     U                     'a   94  55   6                 5  856 U    isaomc  ski as me U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I,  :   n    -
Wia  IM O lsM FMMSI                                                          ...                           ! ..  .M-.. .
Sue      O$gweeo.amta,5"a5NOU5"LoCIo ,.gcecanmen                  s.M
.    . . . w w M lo d , . . . .                                                                 * 4 *   c a   e S .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .g.g.. .g.. . . . . . . .5   t e g s   e e .
lb "s I    minem "OIs1M  m12



TIIU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
110U9L   S2IChUttUh    411  LIKESTOCK EtEIINSIfh hINASILITATI   PONECT
*tabl  3. tECIUICAL *S51ST8CE
Cotoft d Cost Table
Totals Insludfi4g Conttnpnt
quntity                                                                          gU '4100
._ ................................................. ...               .      .    ........................................  .     .......................................................
IhIt as/si 8t1  SO/O/   g,m           92/93 93/94 94/15 95/90 totel  uit Cost    6/821903 90/91/ OII2 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/S6 total
1. ItE5VEltN tCOSTS
ElEIISlU NEINOMIOCIST                NY         I      I      I      I      1             -      -      5       t.0loo    112.5 121.1 124.t 12e.t 133.6                  .             625.6
fIIUIAL EXPERT                       NY         I      I                                      -      .   2       lIeoo    117.5 121.1                                              -   230.6
PROCUR£ENt ElPERt                    1t         I e. 5.-                                               1.5   ttof     tt5 80.5 -17.. 
N1       UtERl                       Ny         I   0.5.-.5                                                      tt o000    117.5. 60.5.-16.
SNORT tIM  CONSULTAtt S              I                    6  a       6      6       6             0    52                   133.6  62.5  85.0  87.8  9t.1  04.?  98.5  102.4    775. 6
PROJECt P JPMA  IOU.-                                                                              -      --                                             242.9                          2 242.9
Totel IWESTIEIt COST3                                                                                                           803.7 445.? 209.7 216.5 467.5          .?  9.5  102.4 2.- 36.?
Totsl                                                                                                                            t03.7 4n.7 209.7 216.5 467.5   94.7  98.5 102.4 2.238.1
. . ..,_....... .......... .................................. ............................................................ __.. ...  __:............. ......................... ....
IS. l988   11:28
Ph
U",1
0W



401156 SPIMIiVA  5  61461ff 11113626   MW3L2t0TI40 06116
1a 27         2        3        0        5       0        1        3        9      26       22       22       22      to       Is                1 to ii u         9       a        21      12       33       is      3
hid.                23S.10   253.70   339.29  ~~~~~~~533.90   M5."0  376.00   M4.210  623.20   623.10  623.1*  673.20  622.20   2123.0   613.10  023.20  123.20  123.10  023.20  023.10   632.1   425.1   423.2   4251    03.30   02.1
Satw cycle                           11.10   130."4  212.40   29.1   301.20  329.90   332.30   345.40   338.19   331.92   M2.2   318.17   312.40   3v.251  30.02   294.02  28.24  2333 71.3 2763 M2.3   31.1    3*6.6  33.2    33.16   "M.6
ka  io 9 m. VW                      20.20    42.40    14.0    60.20   91.40   95.00    19.801  202.60   202.30   102.30   242.60  21.0 223 02.30   1           12.60 1 02. 30 1 02. 30 202. 30   20.3011033 02.60   202.0 102.600.    AL  IL  "02.6    "M.3
bIcycle                             27.50    39.30    00.70   02.10   5lL0    39.20   92.30   %6.50        4.57   92.68   60.33   09.02   311.23   3543    3IL"    3.20    30.40   73.35    17.21    IL"7   74.21   12.1    72.2     1.8.              3.6
bon                                          17.90   31.00    331.20   39.40   41.20   42.30   44.50   44.50    44.50    44.10   44.5    44.50    44.50    44.50   44.50   44.50   44.50    44.50    44.53    44.3   60.3    44.3    44.               4.6
so  Motl                       234.40   466.50   162.30  2039.00  2017.90  1222.00  12183.8  2227.50  2293.1£  2294.9  213.52  227.23  2110.03   WAS.0  2154.29  2246.52  2239.9  2222.013  25214.40  2221.33 1220.30 2202.50  109.2  own.3   665.1
50030                                0.40f    0.30     0.40     0.00   129.60   239.00  224.60   204.40   129.3   139.40   224.60   204.40   229.30   230.00  224.10   204.40   229.6   239.00  24.40    34.0   229.    109.60   WaS   361.6i02.60
kwa d vmi                            0.00     0.40     0.00    0.30    54.90    571.0   59.40      2.04   54.6    571.0   59.401   42.80   54.9       5.1.0   59.40   01.30   54.9    57.20   59.40    62.6110   5.6    52.5403.40    &L.610   0.6%
lot Tot,                          0.00    0.00     0.40     0.09  1114.1*   24.10  234.00  2M.20   234.70  244.10  2134.00   246.20   234.7   24.1.0   204.0?,  246.20  IN4."0  24.20   34.00   230.23   131.16  216.13   31.6    34.3   256.3
013w hjaiti.  Lmeaisue
Epissut                    40.80~~~~~Jk   209.2..  161.40  222. ?*  2:7.20  241.70  250.6.   260.00  2*6.91.   tbe..    2160.0  .6000.1   200.2   W00.9   2,1.01  f 212. 24.310   0.e0  200.30    3360N  230.    236.6   23L.6   36.6    23S6
Office l1hosi                         0.40     3.20    9.60    20.5.:   V,."0    2231       .'2.30         22.3* 22.30       22.30    22.3" 1 2.30 2M  M  2.3*   .2.9   2.30 222.20M   2231 2.30    12.30            22.3I0S  22.0   2OL3    2.3    23.
wdlq"                                         IWO4   24.4,    00..    54i .0*   31.4    59.2*    61.1#   ti.'0   62.'.'   tLY,   # 02. M    tl.?0   62,70    0M,7  o.2.1    61.70   02.70   62.70    02.10    it.1"    12.10   42.1064.16   02.131
slale.., on"pso MillmaK              51.40   114.0*   M35.6   254.    Id0. 1    279.50i  24v..w.  302.3v  290.5*   290.22   234.52  :'e.2  ~?7.:   :o'. "   202.41   257.29   rnA.4   24'1.40   242.46      .31.2  M."   221.3   223.2   2236    214.4
RtO) bhwp                             2.30    5.10     3.30    22.20    22.1£    23.50    23. 10   4.20    24.26    14.20   14.2,   14.;v   14.20    14.2  0 1.20   14.20   J4.2*-   14.20   24.2           24.20   24.20   16.23    24.30   M23.       24.3
Id  Tdotl                       I07."0   253.4    30.20  534.20  341.20  .01.40   632.v   051.50   012.50   645.2   0N.792   63.0   623.20   622.79   617.41  622,29   601.04  602.00  591.6           3Mu2  W.4   32.6    51wV   112.6    W.39.0
Prwe   isam1 Miflt.*                376.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.90    0.2'    0.00    0.0  0   .00    O.0              0.00    O.40    0.0)    0.00    0.91    0.0         0.40      0.00    0.40    0.30      0.60    0.6      0.60
low  60t042.                        713.30   741.90  2253.0  1573.20  1662.10  2123.4  2791.36  1269.84  1355.2.  240.2 2  I02.03  2322.02  3149.2' 21341.32  17'2.621 2156.2  2740.04  2133.3  1212.40  1239.3  2191.1  266.4  2675.29  1["Let 1122.6
23043                               723.30   142.910  2253.40  1573.2  27.310 3629.4o 1212.76  206.20    (.Oi'           0.    0 M0    (A.2    0.00    0.00    6. %      0.00    V.00    0.00    0.00        0.40    0.0      L.O      L.3      6.40    OA6
latmeot Si                           39.60   73.50   9.59   222.29   '7.60   54."90       2.40   52.40   51.35   10.32   49,32   03.22    47.3'    4.4    4s.49    44.3    0!..    42.3    42.91            42.22   40.30   P9."    31.11    31.93   11.2
fmde.11" 4/                           0.60    0.40    0.00    0.0v    #.6 04 .00    v.00    0.00   33.12   23.18    34.46   35.215   25.35   20.51              '.      3.04,  32.02    341.5    40.31      43.2104.60   42.34    4.13    "A.    ILI?
366w GP  1 S/220.00   420.00   050.00  330.0022MO.412380.00  1640.00  1920.00  2204.30  20.99  2209.03 31229.39  W40.5   WRAY.0  451.41 454.22  4933.13  53391.34   MAI.9    020.35 O0=.22 7229.54 703.12 315.63 366.45
TO  otal 242                        967.10  2235.40  2902.50   WA04.3   2N.3.2   30.9v 20.2,v 22218.  233.21  253.99  23192.31 322.07  MM4.1  W04.4  4252.22  4626.313 5926.43  5422.73 343.24   oas.os  £73.61  722.V1  745.2  42214 3I5.09
ll3elk#                             249.66   493.0*   743.54   941.2  l2 O 1=3253   1167.R0  'W0.8   434.22   144.17  1.46.79  2040.0. 2741.5- .207.14  M4..02.0.12  3270.44,3US..29  41222.7   45n.o  S.os. 5b 525.45  602.93 05L3.9   M2AI0
flitum Oilrti, 7.2.t40 to tto
64A   o OUlMa   askk., tab 
50WCIgiI of keycle opordsm wi ustaatuu,
stusM t III mat%.,. &KruMta uOIWhnM p O
WilstlaOt 100*1.511 Ppdm WU ah iKlium t d  uWea tat. Of n3 p. VW.
SItuaomW aliemp   NOWt NWsS    a. U phod  tals.o sik  poast kitof 4505.204s2llis0 toe ttrojed wem.



- 68 -                              Annex 6
Page 7 of 16
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AORICULTI*AL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION RENABILTATION PROJECT
-              Selected Itin from Budg"t" of the ministry
of Agriculture & Livestock D.velopmet (MALD)
aiI r,rcs in toh'ienj
1986/87                             1987/88
Total       of which              Total          ov wh ich
MALD   Extension A Training       MALD      Extension A Training
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT BUDGET      23B7644    611316.0    261         2476396     686973.0    24X
TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENSES      1146838    647098.8    571         1396169     777426.2    S6O
TOTAL MALD BUDGET             8567882    1258414.8    361        387165    163399.2    85X
Development Budget with Extension Component
1986/87                            1987/88
Local    Fore-gn                   Local    roreogn
Component Component  Total         Component Component  Total
Agriculture Division
Ministry Level                  61983    138764    200737         75440      226188    301628
Regional Level                  60168    232199   292367          73955       74990   148045
Livostock Division
Ministry Level                  87575     626383    10268         49018         248    49266
Regional Level                   4948      18686    18014         33188       62951    86134
Total                          164664    446062    611816        231596      854377    685978
Recurrent Expense Budget for Extension & Training
1986/86   1998/87   1987/88       1988/89   86/87  87/88   86/89
Personal Emoluments                                                         8C/88  8B/87   67/86
Agriculture Division           18686.0  180112.4  226516.5       262361.6   W-  25k-    UFt-
Livestock Division             118611.6  141290.9  167757.2      193332.9  24X      19X    15X
Total                          252296.6  821408.8  894267.7      466894.5  271    281       161
Othor Expenditure for
Extension A Traintng
Agricultiro Division           121808.5  144081.9  161422.7       193381.9  18X      5s    28X
Livestock Division              84690.9   96578.8  181991.8      250664.8  14X    87X    90X
Training (from Resercb &
Training Div.)               76867.9   85684.8   99744.0      119178.4  llX      171     19X
Total                          288867.8  826B95.5  363168.5      563124.6  15X    18X    47X
TOTAL Rocurrent Expenditures   6856.9  647698.8  777426.2    1018819.1  211    206          s11
Sourge:
National Budget of Tanzania Submitted for 1997/68
1985/86 Actual Expenditure
1908/87  Approved Estiates
1997/88 Etimaten
1908/89 Tentative Projections
Note:
Forsonal emoluments for training (which are difficult to separate from
total Training A Resoerch Divlsion data) were not Included.



TANZANIA
NTIONAL AORICLMAL AND UVETOC  ENIOI RI-MA                 MN POJECT
omral Data oe Agricultural Production, Esporta & Imports
Approxuimt. Shares of National              Approximate Shares of National
Agricultural Production In the              Export fro Selected Agrcul-
Project Area in Recent Year*                 turl Crops in Recent Years                 Total Imports (Commercial A Aid) of Major Grains
ifLn 55w t.onims)
Approx.            Approx
Food Crop           Approx.         Export            s                   X
_X             _Crop      AgrI.Exporto Total   Total Exports       Year       Mal"       RiCe      Whet       Total
Maize                  s6           Coffee             65                52             1981/82    231.6      66.5       70.9      389.6
Rice                   76           Cotton           12.5               1t              1982/83    123.4      29.4       11.4      164.2
Sorghul-Millet         80           Cashew Nut        7.6                 6             1983/84    194.3      67.2       46.a      297.8
Cassava                5S                                                               1984/86    137.6      46.6       33.6      217.7
Total             86                 88             1985/86     25.6      41.7      21.7       89.0
Export Crop         Approx.                                                             Average    142.6      48.3       86.6      227.6
Coffee                 4e
Cotton                 of
Cashe Nut              95
II
S '
0



Annex 6
Page 9 of 16
- 70 -
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION RERABILITATION PROJECT
Summarv of Sample Parm Budaets
(198711988 Prices)
Without      With      Increment     2
Per Farm Family                    Proiect      Proiect                Change
COASTAL AREA
Gross Value of Prod. (Tsh)         17525       27285       9760        56
Net Cash Income (Tsh)               8720       15170       6450        74
Operating Costs (Tsh)                775        3226       2451       316
Labor (Days)                       257.5       327.5         70        27
Return Per Labor (Tsh/Day)         63.73       69.80       6.07        10
WESTERN AREA
Gross Value of Prod. (Tsh)         15710       21160       5450        35
Net Cash Income (Tsh)               6917       11121       4204        61
Operating Costs (Tsh)               2220        3323       1103        50
Labor (Days)                       - 305         350         45        15
Return Per Labor (Teh/Day)         42.22       48.80       6.58        16
NORTHERN AREA
Gross Value of Prod. (Tsh)         31350       38625       7275        23
Net Cash Income (Tsh)              16278       22089       5811        36
Operating Costs (Tsh)               5090        5841        751        15
Labor (Days)                       246.3       277.5       31.2        13
Return Per Labor (Tsh/Day)         98.16      108.14       9.98        10



Annex 6
- 71 -              Page 1  of 16
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LImESTOCK EXTENSION UEHUBILITATION PROJECT
Samile Farm Budget - Coastal Area 1/
0.5 ha maize
0.5 ha rice
0.5 ha cassava
1.0 ha cashew nut
2.5 ha total area 21
Without         With
Project        Project             2
(Tsh)          (Tsh)           Change
Gross Value of Prod.                17525           27285            56
Home Consumption 31                  7690            7690             0
Gross Cash Income                    9835           19595            99
Operating Costs
Seeds            -                  370           390.5             6
Fertilizers                           0             715
Plant Protection                    150            1700          1033
Packing Material                    255             420            65
Total Operating Costs                 775          3225.5           316
Investment Costs
Farm Tools                          300             700           133
Orchard Depr.                       100             500           400
Total Inv. Costs                      400            1200           200
Total Costs                          1115          4425.5           297
Net Cash Income                      8720         15169.5            74
Net Value of Prod.                  16410         22859.5            39
Labor (days)                        257.5           327.5            27
Return per Labor day                63.73           69.80            10
Assumptions for crop costings and sample farm budgets:
Representative smallholder using family labor (supplemented when
necessary by the exchange of labor) and using hand cultivation.
1/ Coastal area includes: Lindi, Morogoro, and Mtwara regions.
21 Some other important crops in this area are: Pigeon peas and other
legumes, groundnut, sesame, coconut.
3/ Home consumption is based on a family unit of 5 persons consuming an
average of 0.5 kg grain/day, and 300 kg of maize, 250 kg of rice and
367.5 kg of cassava per year.



Annex 6
-72 -                  Page 11 of 16
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTCRAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sample Farm Budget - Western Area 1/
1.0 ha maize
0.5 ha sorghum-millet
0.25 ha cassava
1.0 ha cotton
2.75 ha total area 21
Without       With
Project      Project            X
(Tsh)        (Tsh)          Change
Gross Value of Prod.               15709.5         21160           35
Home Consumption 3/                    5960         5960            0
Gross Cash Income                     749.5        15200           56
Operating Costs
Seeds                                250           265            6
Fertilizers                           430          580           35
Plant Protection                    1225          2050           67
Packing Material                      315        427.5           36
Total Operating Costs                  2220       3322.5           50
Investment Costs
Farm Tools                         612.5        756.25           23
Total Costs                         2832.5       4078.75           44
Net Cash Income                        6917     11121.25           61
Net Value of Prod.                    12877     17081.25           33
Labor (days)                            305          350           15
Return per Labor day                  42.22        48.80           16
Assumptions for crop costings and sample farm budgets:
Representative smallholder using family labor (supplemented when
necessary by the exchange of labor) and using hand cultivation.
1/ Western area includes: Mwanza, Rukwa, Shinyanga, Singida, Tabora and
parts of Dodoma and Kagera region.
2I Some other important crops in this area are: Cowpeas and other leaumes,
oil seeds, sweet potato, tobacco. Also, livestock is an important
economic activity in this area.
3/ Home consumption is based on a family unit of 5 persons consuming an
average of 0.5 kg grain/day, and 300 kg of maize, 250 kg of rice and
367.5 kg of cassava per year.



Annex 6
73                   Page 12 of 16
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sample Farm Budget - Northern Area 11
1.25 ha maize
0.50 ha coffee (intercropped with banana)
1.75 ha total area 21
Without          With
Project         Project          z
(Tsh)           (Tsh)       Change
Gross Value of Prod.                 31350           38625           23
Home Consumption 31                   7920            7920            0
Gross Cash Income                    23430           30705           31
operating Costs
Seeds                                625             625            0
Fertilizers                         1840          2501.2           36
Plant Protection                  2317.5          2317.5            0
Packing Material                   307.5           397.5           29
Total Operating Costs                 5090          5841.2           15
Investment Costs
Farm Tools                        1062.5            1275           20
Orchard Depr.                       1000            1500           50
Total Inv. Costs                    2062.5            2775           35
Total Costs                         7152.5          8616.2           20
Net Cash Income                    16277.5         15169.5           74
Net Value of Prod.                 24197.5         22088.8           36
Labor (days)                        246.25           277.5           13
Return per Labor day                 98.16          108.14           10
Assumptions for crop costings and sample farm budgets:
Representative smallholder using family labor (supplemented when
necessary by the exchange of labor) and using hand cultivation.
1I Northern area includes: Arusha, Kilimanjaro and parts of Kagera region.
2I Some other important crops in this area are: Misc. legumes, Irish
potatoes.
3I Home consumption is based on a family unit of 5 persons consuming an
average 0.5 kg grain/day (assume 3.125 kg grain equiv. to 1 banana
bunch), and about 600 kg of maize and 100 bunches of banana per year.



Annex b
- 74 -                Page 13 of 16
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHAIILITATION PROJECT
Present and Prolected Crop Yields
Without     With      Increment         X
Project    Project                  Change
ArealCrops             (kg/ha)    (kglha)   -(klha)
COASTAL
Maize                  550        800         250         45
Rice                  1100       1400         300         27
Cassava               1300       1600         300         23
Cashew Nut             150        350         200        133
WESTERN
Maize                  750       1000         250         33
Sorghum-Millet         550        650         100         18
Cassava               1300       1600         300         23
Cotton                 350        500         150         43
NORTHERN
Maize                 1200       1500         300         25
Coffee                 350        450         100         28



Annex 6
75- 
Page 147  of 16
TANZANI
WATIWAL AURatLURAL M   LIVETOC  EXTENSON  fIAhILTATION PROJET
zAnL~~~~(ll/ ,xo^ uono)lTn 
CASHW lIT                COTT                         COFFE (a
r|  Lznput   £oprove@   LoW ilnpu   Improve        LOW 15pur,
_____  -   -   - Coffee    Ranana   Coffee  Banana
ross Production (kg)                16i          30         56          Ws         u                    us       4
Otfic. Producer Pric. (Tah/kg)   29.50        29.U0      16.42       16.42      so."           S       0".0
Gross Volue of Prod. (Tub)       44.25        16325       644?        9216      2J166        15s6     88       ism
Labor (Days)                        o6           a         14      6         1S   I66          So      210    $4
Operating Costs (Tab)                                                                                       2
seed*             t       s                  (     t                           0                    6
FortilIIers                     *           *           *           6        4S6                   on
Plant Protection                e         1566        ?06        1406       a8m6                 am65
Packing Material              60          1to         9g          129         96                  129
Total Operating Costs              6s          low         79         1526       *9865                4445
Tnvestmnt Cost. (TTb)
Fare Toole                    16e         56          4           566       1                    16e9
Orchard Depr.                 l6         s5             0           J       2ee                 Sams
Total InVestment Cost              26t         lo6w        466         s66       SW66                 4809
Total Cost" (Tsh)                  816         2666       1196        2e20       74es                 9245
Nat Value of Prod. (Tub)          4115         7045       52S?        7196      8e695                J7255
Net Return to Labor (Tah/Day)                 08.56      64.94       87.6C       44.9        18.40            144 .1
Improved Farming Practtics by Crop:
Cashew Nut- (a) Control of pbfdary lid., disese.
(b) Pruning and tntinng of existing tre.
(c)  Replarting of unproductive tree.
(d)  Incerased wedng.
Cotton-      (a)  Incrased cemical plant protection.
(b) Timely planting, good spacing, Incroased weeding.
(c) Us of seeds provided by TCA.
Coffe*-      (a) Pruning of oxtiting tree.
(b) Replanting of leo productivity treee and incresd tros/ha.
(e)  Incresed mm of chmical fertiliter.
far  utO Pries for Cash  Nut A Cotton
CaShw Nut - Asguw  9SX Standard Grade OT*b 30/kg
and 5a Undsrgrode 0 Tab 26/kg
Cotton- Assemu 961 AM 6 Tab 19.45/kg and 161 6B 6 Tab 9.10/kg.
Cashe Nut yields:
At the present tie thre sto a erpious problem of powdery mlldew affecting
cashes production tn Tanzania  Th- current  Vav. yield of 16 kg/he assume
a maintained orchard.
Coffeo-4nana Intercropping
Banana yi-lds are measured In bunches and there Is no offlcial producer price.
Asauptions for crop costings and sample fare budget.:
Representativ  sea lholder using family labor (Supplemanted when
necesry by the exchange of labor) and using hand cultivation.



-76 -                            Annex 6
TANUZAIA                            Page 15 of 16
NATIONAL AGICULIURAL AND LIVEStOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Budgets
(luqwu/ rTies)
MAIZE                    MAIZE                      MAIZE
COASTAL                  WESTERN                    NORTHERN
Low Input    Improved    Low Input    mprov d    Low Input    Lmproved
Cross Production (kg)                 660          O00          760         1000         1200          100
NMC Producer Prico (Tah/kg)          8.20         8.20         8.20         0.20         8.20          0.20
Cross Value of Prod. (Tah)           4510         6568         e10         8200         K:0          123a0
Labor (days)                           80           90           90          105          105           120
Operating Coats (Tsh)
Seeds                           164           205         205           206         600            606
Fertilizers                       o           as5         430           58         1800           1625
Plant Protection                S00           400         400           600                 600    S
Packing Material                120           150        10            210         210            270
Total Operating Costs                 504         1165         118S         1495         2510          2805
Investmnt Costs (Tsh)
Farm Tools                      10           160         160           175         250             90W
Total Costs (Tsh)                     884         1266         1335         1070         2780          8195
Not Value of Prod. (Tsh)             a826         5306         4815         6S30         7688          9105
Not Return to Labor (Tsh/day)      47.03         58.94       58.60         62.19        66.07         75.87
Improved Farming Practices by Area:
Coastal-   (a) Better planting tim  *nd spacing
(b) Higher seeding rate and use of Inproved seeds.
(c) Use of chemical fertilizer.
(d) Increased weeding.
Western-   (a)  Better planting time and spacing.
(b) Use of improved seeds.
(c) Increased usage of chemical fertilizers.
(d) Increased weeding.
Northern-  (a)  Increased usage of chemical fertilizers.
(b) Incrased weeding.
Assumptions for crop costings and ample fOrm budgets:
Representative smaliholder using family labor (supplem_ntd when
necessry by the exchange of labor) and using hand cultivation.
(1) The ums of improved seeds In the Coastal & Western areas will require a
higher expense for the Initial purchass Of composit  seds



- 77 -                         Annex 6
Page 16 of 16
TANANIA
NATIONAL ASRIC_LYU_AL AND ULVESTOCK EXTENSION ENABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Budg ts
t(19u77u rrFces)
Sorghum-Mi I I.t             RIcO                   Cassava
LoW input   Improvea   Low input   improvev   how Input improved
Gross Production (kg)              6SE        069         110       1400       1300        le.e
NLC Producer Price (Tsh/kg)       6.00        6.00       14.40      14.46       4.56        4.60
Groas Value of Pred. (Tsh)        3300        3900       16640      20169       B8o6        7200
Labor (days)                       100         110         216        225       1IN          120
Operating Costs (Tsh)
Seds (1)                        90         120         67         676          O           6
Ferti IzIre .                                a           6        65 9s 
Plant Protection               260         300           a          0          0           0
Packing Material                96         120         160        180        120         160
Tot l Operating Cost*              430         640         726       1406        120         156
Investment Costs (Tah)
Form Tools                     1O0         126         156        176         SO          75
Tot l Costs (Teb)                  530         685         876       1581        170         225
Net Value of Prod. (Tah)          27760       323        14964   - 18679        56f8        6976
Nat Return to Labor (Tsh/day)   27.70        29.41       69.89      62.57      56.89      56.18
improved Farming Practices by Crop:
Sorghum-Millet - (a)  Better planting time and spacing.
(b)  Higher seeding rate and use of improved seeds.
(c)  Increased weeding.
RIce -            (a)  Better planting tim  afnd spacing.
(b)  Higher seeding rate and use of improved seeds.
(c)  Use of chemical fertiliers.
(d)  Increased weeding.
Casava -          (a)  Better planting time and spacing.
(b)  Increosed wod;ng.
(c)  Better selection of propagation material.
Assumptions for crop costings and samplto far budgets:
Representative- salIholder using family labor (supple_mnted when
necssary by the exchange of labor) and using hand cultivation.
(1)  The  se of improved seds for gorihum- illot and rice Will roqulre
a higher expense for the initial purchase ot comosgte sed.



-78 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
TAEZ^NU
WhTIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Accounting Guidelines
1.        General.  The proposed project involves three GOT organizational units,
namely District Offices (DOs), Regional Offices (ROs) and the Extension Unit (EU)
set up within the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD). These
guidelines, which have been prepared to assist the EU, would be periodically
reviewed during implementation and modified according to evolving circumstance.
2.        Project Accounts.  EU, ROs and DOs are government units and accounting
would be done on a single entry cash basis in accordance with the Government
Financial Regulations (FR).  Project accounting too, would therefore be maintained
on a cash basis and project accounts would form an integral part of the normal
accounting system of the respective units. However, all project transactions
would be accounted for under a separate sub-heading (NALERP) in all accounting
records and fiaancial statements. To facilitate identification, all vouchers
pertaining to project expenditures would be rubber stamped "NALERP-IDA." At the
end of the month, each unit would prepare a summary of project expenditures under
the following headings:
-    Civil Works
-    Furniture and Equipment
-    Technical Assistance
-    Training
-    Vehicle operation and maintenance
-    Equipment operation and maintenance
-    Building operations and maintenance
-    Mileage claims
-    Staff Salaries and Wages (Incremental)
-    Office supplies
Each RO would consolidate its own expenditure summary with the summaries of the
DOs within its jurisdiction while the EU would consolidate its own project summary
with the regional data. The summarized accounts of the project would be in the
form of a "Sources and Application of Funds" (SAF) (Table 4) statement from the
consolidated project expenditure summary compiled by the EU and the books
described in para 3, maintained by the EU.
3.        IDA-Disbursements.  The EU would be responsible for the procurement of
goods and services required for the project, in accordance with IDA Guidelines 1/,
and for making withdrawals from the IDA Credit Account. EU would also be
responsible for establishing and operating the "Special Account." An IDA Credit
1/ "Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' -
World Bank publication.



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
Withdrawal RegisteL and a Special Account Cash Books based on the formats given in
Tables 1, 2, and 3, would be maintained to record all withdrawals from the IDA
Credit, and the transactions through the "Special Account."
4.        Subsidiary Books and Records.  Subsidiary books and records would be
maintained by all the units--EU, ROs and DOs. Specific minimum requirements are
given in Table 5.
5.        Statement of Expenditures (SoEs).  Under the IDA Development Credit
Agreement, SoEs would be used for disbursement on the followirg items:
-    Incremental recurrent expenditures comprising staff salaries, mileage
allowance, and vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance costs;
-    Training expenses; and
-    All contracts for goods costing less than US$20,000 each.
MALD/EU would be responsible for ensuring that an adequate system of internal
control with regard to all payments covered by the SoEs, would be in force
throughout the project period. Under the system, SoE should be traceable to the
project accounts and the supporting vouchers and data should be available at
headquarters for review by IDA supervision missions and the independent auditor.
6.        Audit-Reports.  In addition to the annual statutory audit, the Auditor
General would carry out a separate audit of the "Special Account" including the
"Sub-Account" and documentation relating to SoE claims. EU would be responsible
for the timely submission of the following reports in compliance with the audit
covenant requirement in the Credit Agreement: (a) separate audit report covering
the "Special Account", the "Sub-Account' and SOE claims 2/ within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year; and (b) audit report on the annual accounts 2/ of the
project, including the long-term audit report not later than nine months from the
end of each fiscal year.
2/ See page 23 and 26 of the World Bank publication "Guidelines
on Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Finance" by the World Bank.



TAEZ*NI
NATIOEAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK WKISION
3uE&BILISATmOE PROJECT
SPECIAL ACCOUNT CASH BOOK
Location ..... A/C# .........       Imprest
Receipts                                                Payments
Cost&Loan                        Amount in   Exch.  Amt. in
W/A Ref.                             Categories                       Currency    Rate   Dollars
Date      Description   Amount  Debited       Date   Description  of req.
0
1/ including Loan category debit details and IDA Payment advice reference.
2/ including BoT advice.
I a
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H-



-81 -                        Arnnex 7
Table 2
S
id~~~~~~~~~~~I
IL
S0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



TANZANIA
NAnIORAL A0IGCULTUkAL AND LIVESTOCR ZITENSION
3ERABILIThTION PBDJECT
Formats for Foreign Exchange Payment Day Books
IDA - Credit Withdrawals/Expenditure Analysis Book
W/A      Brief Description      Total        IDA's share paid direct (by IDA) or
Ref:     of Goods/Services    Amount                   from Special Account
- - -------- - --------- -- - -------     -     Total   Analysis by
Fin. % of           Exchange                   Amt. in      Loan
Category  Amount      Rate    USS    TSh.       TSh.      Category
_____   __________----------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------------------           O
Total:
1/ in currency of claim.



- 83 -
Annex 7
Table -i4
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
RATIONtL AIJCULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EITENSION
BERANILTONPROJE!CT
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS-FYl9..
(In TSh. '000)
CUMULATIVE
NOTES                                 NOTE      THIS    LAST      FOR PROJECT
REF:     YEAR    YEAR   PERIOD TO DATE
1. SOURCES OF FUNDS
Government                             (l)
IDA
African Development Fund
Other Receipts (Specify)
(Cumulative to date in US$
separately for IDA & ADF)
TOTAL
2. APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Civil Works                           (2)
Furniture & Equipment                 (3)
Vehicles                              (4)
Technical Assistance                  (5)
Training (Local)                      (6)
Training (overseas)
Vehicle Operation
Building Maintenance
Equipment Maintenance
Incremental Staff Salaries
Mileage Claims                          (7)
Office Supplies
Special Account Balance:
TOTAL



-84-              Annex 7
Table 4
Pagq 2 of 2
EXPLANATORY NOTES
Note  For the Year    Cumulative
(1)
Release of IDA Funds
Initial Deposit
Direct Payments
Reimbursement against:
Documents
SoE's                                      .*s  X*  
Civil Works                              (2)
Detailed breakdown by Reglon
Furniture and Equipment                  (3)
Detailed breakdown by major
category of items
Vehicles                                (4)
Detailed breakdown including
payment by type and year of
purchase
Technical Assistance                    (5)
Detailed breakdown by contract name
Training                                (6)
Detailed breakdown by type of
training
Mileage Claim                           (7)
Detailed breakdown by Region &
vehicle type
*-@@@.me...       *0S@ -



- 85 -
Annex 7
Table 5
TANZANIA
NATIONL AGRICULTURAL AND LIm STOCR EKTENSION
REHAB.LITX ION PROJECT
Subsidiary Book and Records
District Officers - (DO's)
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis Book
Fixed Assets Register
;             Mileage Claims Book
Vehicle Log Book
Stock Book
Regional Offices (RO's)
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis Book
Project Expenditure Amalgamation Book
Fixed Assets Register
Mileage Claims Book
Vehicle Log Book
Stock Books
Extension Unit (EU)
The subsidiary records would be similar to those required for RO's.   In
addition, it would maintain:
- Special Account Cash Book
- Sub-Account Cash 3ook
- IDA Credit Withdrawals and Expenditure Analysis Book
- Foreign Procurement Follow-up Register



- 86 -
Annex 8
Page l of 6
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule I/
A. Preamble
1. The following actions to implement the National Agricultural and Livestock
Extension Rehabilitation Project (NALERP) would have been taken by GOT before
IDA Board presentation:
a. Appointment and mobilization of the Commission for Agriculture and
Livestock Development (CALD) and the Assistant Commissioner for Extenslon
Services (ACES) who is also the NALERP Coordinator; and
b.  Appointment of the members of the Extension Unit (EU).
2. Other actions to be taken before the Effective Data are stated in the
Implementation Plan in Section B below. These completion dates are given as
calendar months and also as negative integers representing the numbers of
months before the Effective Date.
B. Implementation Plan
Completion dates are given for tasks to be done in the first year (covering
Dodoma, Singida, Tabora regions) and the second year (covering Kagera, Rukwa,
Shinyanga regions). Task completion dates for the third year (covering
Arusha, Kilimanjaro, Mtwara regions) and the fourth year (Lindi, Morogoro,
Mwanza regions) can be obtained as explained below.
1/ This schedule only covers implementation of the proposed T&V system.



- 87 -                          Pge 2 of 6
Completion Date
(olso montha before (-) or
*fter (+) effective date)    Agency
Task                                   lst Year    2nd Yearz/    Responsible
Before Loan Effective Date
(I) Arrange and execute              (Oct. 88)
training program  for SNS            -4                       PS MALD
in Extension Methodology and
Staff Training
(2) Appoint Procurement Advisor      (June '88)
-8                       PS tLD
(3) Prepare tender documentation    (Aug. 88)                     Proc. Adv.
for all project ltems needed                                  and EU
during first year                                             Supplies
Offlcer
(4) Prepare tender documenta-                     (June 89)       As (3)
tion for project items                         +4
needed In second year
(S) Expedite through MALD systes    (Aug. 89)   (June 90)         As (3)
untll delivery and distrl-          +6         +16
button to users
(6) Appoint the following addi-
tional adivlsory staff:
- Extension Methodology          (May 89)                     PS MALD
Advisor                           +3
- Finance Advisor                (may 89)                     PS MALD
+3
-Monitoring & Evaluation         (May 89)                     PS NULD
(MUl) Advisor                       +3
(7) Appoint short term training      (May 89)                     PS MHAW
Specialist                          +3
(8) Appoint additional short-ters   According   According         PS MALD
consultants In accordance with      to           to
the first project Annual Work      AWP         AMP
Program (AMP) (see Task 11
below),
To obtain third and fourth year completion dates, add 12, 24 months
respectively to second year figures.



Annex a
Page 3 of 6
Completion Date
(also months before (-) or
after (+) effective date)    Agency
Task                                        lot Year    2nd Year       Responsible
Organizatlon Structure
sad Annual Work Program (AWP)
(9)  Reviev proposed outline extension    (June 89)   (Feb. 90)        ACES, EU
organization and determine in            +4           +12         REOs, DFO0
detail staff requirements and
locations In the light of the
agreed supervisory ratios, staff/
farmer ratios and local conditions
and needs.
(10) Review/prepare and  produce job        (June 89)                 ACES, EL
descriptions, specifications             +4
and operating guidelines for REOs,
DEOs, SWSs, DEOs, VEWs, RELOs
(11) Prepare detailed Annual Work           (Sept. 89)  (Apr. 90)    ACES, EU
Program  (AWP) for each project          +7            +14
year lndlcating as appropriate
(and among other things) timing
and an months for short term
consulting assistance.
Appointment, Training of Extension Staff.
Orlentation of Others
(12) Determine and agree with appropriate (Apr. 89)                    PS MALD
agencies,  policy and procedure for      +2                      CALD 3/ ACES
the redeployment/retrenchment of
surplus staff.
(13) Appointment/confirm REOs               (Apr 89)    (Feb. 90)      PS MALD
+2         +12         CALD !/, ACES
(14) Appointment/confirm District Exten-  (May 89)    (Mar. 90)        CALD 3/ ACES
sion Officers in all districts of        +3          +13           REOs
regions being implemented
(15) Prepare, arrange and carry out
orientation training
at RQ for:
- senior MALD management              (June 89)       )
+4
- Senior officers from other          (June 89)                   ACES, EU
involved ministries,                   +4           )          Training
departments of GOT                                  )          speciallst
- Other WALD officers                 (June 89)       )
+4
3/ RADOw   RLDO vould act for RALDO before the latter's appointment.  DADO, DLDO
would act f or DALDO before the latter's appoinitment.



- 89-                                Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Completion Date
(also months before (-) or
after (+) *ffectiie date)    Agency
Task                                        lst Year    2rd Yeor2/    Responsible
(16) Prepare arrange and carry out          (July 89)   (June 90)      ACES, EU,
orientation training  for                 +5          +16         training
senior staff in the regions in                                    specialist
which the project is currently
being implemented
(17) Identify existing zonal or other       (July 89)   (Apr. 90)      ACES, EU, CRI
research station to be linked to          +5          +14
regional and/or district units of
the new T&V system; arrange and
carry out briefing/orientation of
research staff on their role
(18) Appoint (1) RELOs and (2) Extension- (July 89)   (Apr. 90)    ACES, EU
Research Liaison Officers (ERLOs)         +5          +14)
as required by (1) ?SR teams/programs
(2) regional/district extension needs
and availability of a neighboring
research station or zonal center
(19) Prepare, arrange and carry out exten-  (June 89) (July 90)    ACES, EU,
sion training (as necessary) for REOs       +4        +17         training
(2 weeks) and District Extension                                  specialist,
Officers                                                          CRT
(20) Appoint DEOs and VEWS  from existing   (July 89) (May 90)        RALDO, REO
staff according to staffing needs deter-  +5          +15         DALDO, DEO
mined in task 9
(21) Review need for and appoint/confirm SMSe (July 89)  (June 90) ACES, EUl,
at regional and district levels             +5        +15         RALDO
(22) Prepare, arrange and carry out extension  (July 89) (July 90)
training for SMSs                           +5        +17CES, EU
(23) Prepare arrange and carry out extension   (Aug. 89)  (Aug. 90) ACES, EU,
training for DEOs and VEWs                    +6         +18      REOs,
training
specialist



Annex 8
-90 -                                 Page 5 of 6
Completlon Date
(also months before (-) or
*fter (+) effective date)    Agency
Took                                        lst Year    2nd Year       Responsible
Monltoriaz and Evaluatlon (ME)
(24) Determine need for and deslgn of a    (Aug. 89)                   MSE Officer
moniLoring and evaluatiol (MME)            +6                     and Advslor,
system.                                                           ACES
(25) Appoint M&E staff In regions            (July 89)  (July 90)      RALDO, MbE
under project.                              +5        +7          Officer
(26) Carry out base line survey In           (Oct. 89)  (Oct. 90)      M&E officer,
accordance with M&E Informtilon             +8       +20         ACES
needs of extension managemeut
and PPME
(27) Implement MIE system                    (Nov. 89)  (Nov. 90)      M&E officer,
+9        +21         staff &
advisor
(28) Monitor and evaluate (for planning    (Jan. 91)  (Jan. 92)        M&E officer,
and extension management) impact           +23        +35         staff &
of T&V In regions under project,                                  advisor
after one yea:   operation
Village Extension Implementation
(29) Identify farmer groups and allocate   (Sept. 89) (Sept. 90)   REOs, Dist.
DEOs and VEWs to farmer groups             +7        +19         Ext. Officer,
EU
(30) Undertake orientation meetings   for  (Sept. 89) (Sept. 90)   Diet. Ext.
farmers                                   +7          +19        Officer,
DEOs, VEWs
(31) Prepare DEOs and VEW work plans,        (Sept. 89) (Sept. 90)    REOs, ACES
select contact farmers; select                                    EU
impact points for regions to be
covered by project.



Annex 8
- 91 -                                 Page 6 of 6
Completion Date
(also months before t-) or
after (+) effective date)    Agency
Task                                        lst Year    2nd Year        Responsible
(32) 8egln Implementation of T&V system    (Oct. 89)  (Oct. 90)         REOs, DEOs,
with: fortnightly training sessions        +8          +20        EU
(FTSs); regular visiting and
counseling contact farmers; super-
vision by District Extension Officers
and DEOs, REOs. For PTSS and monthly
workshops arrangements would be made
with appropriate research stations,
primarily but not solely through the
RELOs and ERLs appointed.
(33) Continue (32) with maximum              (Jan. 90)  (Jan. 91)    ACES, EU
supervision by DES and EU                  +11        +23
(34) Formulate policies and mechanisms       (Oct. 89)                 ACES, EU
for coordinating current agriculture/       +8
livestock extenslon projects and
programs
(35) Supervise, monitor and control          Date of project4/         ACES, EU and
ongoing operatlon of T&V system           completion              reglonal
In regions already implemented                                    extension
staff
(36) Undertake implementation review         Dec. 92                   PS MALD, ACES
(37) Formulate TOR for preparation           Dec. 92                    PS, MALD, ACES
of second phase of NALERP
(38) Preparation of second phase of          June 93                    PS, MALD
NALERP
(39) Prepare project completion report       Aug. 97                    PS, MALD
4/   After project completion, supervision, monitoring and control of the
ongoing T&V system will revert to ACES and MALD's HQ, and to regioniaI
management.



- 92 -
Annex 9
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXUSION BR$ABILITATION PROJECT
Documents Available in Project Files
1. The Tanzania Rural Agriculture Extension Rehabilitation
Programme--Draft Reports of Task Force of MALD - July and December
1987.
2. The Agricultural Policy of Tanzania - Ministry of Agriculture - March
31, 1983, GOT Printer.
3. Proposals for a National Drought Resistant Cereals Surategy. Planning
and Marketing Division - MALD, GOT, - 1986.
4. Annual Review 1986 for cashewnuts, grapes, c!l seeds, coffee,
tobacco, sorghum, millet, cassava, beans, maize, rice and wheat, by
Marketing Development Bureau MALD, GOT.
5. Export Crop Packages - A frame-work for action; Agriculture Planning
and Marketing Division, MALD, GOT - April 1984.
6. Agricultural and Livestock Manpower Training and Development
Programmes - July 1986 - 1991 by Research and Training Division MALD
GOT (unpublished).
7. The Tanzania National Agriculture Policy (Final Report) Task Force,
October 1982.
8. Basic Data, Agriculture and Livestock Sector - 1981-82 to 1985-86 -
MALD - Planning and Marketing Division.
9. An Approach to the Cashewaut Farming System Cropping Pattern and Costs
of Production - LINDI, MTWARA and COAST Regions, MDB 1/86.
10. A Farming Systems Approach to the Estimation of Production Costs and
Returns to Labour of Cotton Growing in Tanzania (Mtwara, Shinyanga
R?gions), MDB 1/87.
11. A Farming Systems Approach to the Estimation of Production Costs and
Returns to Labour of Coffee Growing in Tanzania (Kilimanjaro, Arusha,
Kagera, Mbeya, Mbozi, Ruvuma), MDB 9/86.
12. Tanzania Agriculture Sector Mission - Technical Paper, FAO/World Bank,
Cooperative Programme Investment Centre - FAO 7/86.
13. Price Policy Recommendations for the 1985 - Agric. Price review -
Vol. 6, MDB 4/86.
14. Technical Packages for Field Crops.



NRM 20852
2  .4      h.    -I  I    I   'i  
-     z~~Z  <1ag                          }i      111i
z   5,  4c   o             ii
| fi< nS  E   16              N                         oJol,
JWM 0..
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
Jib~~~~~~~~~I



