Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17910
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION
PROJECT
(CR. 1994-TZ)
May 26, 1998
Agriculture Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Jun-96   623.3
Jun-95   604.8
Jun-94  516.2
Jun-93   395.0
Jun-92  300.0
Jun-91   227.0
Jun-90   193.2
Jun-89   145.0
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Tanzania
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF        African Development Fund
DIVEO      Divisional Extension Officer
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
FSR        Farming Systems Research
GOT        Government of Tanzania
MAC        Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
NALERP   National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project
RALDO    Regional Agriculture and Livestock Development Officer
RELO       Research Extension Liaison Officer
SMS        Subject Matter Specialist
VEO        Village Extension Officer
Vice President       Callisto Madavo
Country Director     James W. Adams
Sector Manager       Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader          Satish Kumar



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION
PROJECT (NALERP)
(Cr. 1994-TZ)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                          .1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                          .1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                             .2
General                                   .2
Institutional Change .....................3....,......3
Management and Supervision ...3
Training ...4
Civil Works ...4
Technical Assistance ...4
Monitoring and Evaluation ...5
Research-Extension Collaboration                     .5
Women and Youth and Environment                        .6
Impact                                   .6
Project Costs and Financing ................................................................... , . 7
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                         .8
Limits on Project Counterpart Funds                    .8
Poor Integration of Agricultural and Livestock Skills at Field LeveL  .8
New Challenges, beyond Technical Matters, for which the Extension System was not
Fully Prepared                               .8
D. SUSTAINABILITY                                 .9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                 .9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .10
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................................  14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .......................................................  14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4: IDA/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............................................                               17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .............................................                                    18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .............................................                                              18
Table 8A: Project Costs .............................................                                                           19
Table 8B: Project Financing .............................................                                                       19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .............................................                                             20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .............................................                                               21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................   22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................................                                            22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .............................................                                                23
Appendices
1.   Mission's Aide Memoire
2.   Government's Contribution to the ICR
3.   Miscellaneous Tables
4.   Yields and Production of Major Smallholder Crops



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION
PROJECT (NALERP)
(Cr. 1994-TZ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Agricultural and
Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project (NALERP) in Tanzania, for which IDA Credit 1994-TZ in the
amount of SDR 13.7 million (US$18.4 million equivalent) was approved on March 21, 1989, and
became effective on July 6, 1989. The project was co-financed in parallel by the African Development
Fund. The Mid-Term Review took place in June 1993 and the Credit was closed on March 31, 1997, as
foreseen at appraisal. An amount of SDR 73,700 (0.5% of the credit) remained undisbursed, and is
scheduled to be cancelled. The ADF loan has not closed, and the remaining civil works under the project
will be completed by March, 1998. At closing of the ADF loan, it is expected that US$8.45 million of a
total of US$8.8 million will be disbursed.
This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, on
behalf of the Africa Agriculture Operations Group 1 (AFTA1) of the World Bank. Preparation of the
ICR commenced with the mission's visit to Tanzania from October 3 to 17, 1997. This report is based on
material gathered from the project files and supervision reports, as well as discussions with Bank and
Government of Tanzania (GOT) staff associated with the project. These included staff from the Ministry
of Agriculture and Co-operatives (MAC), particularly the Department of Extension Services, and the
Department of Research and Training within MAC. The mission visited two regions of Tanzania to
assess the impact of the project in areas of different agricultural potential and farming systems. The
Mission held discussions with Regional and District Agriculture and Livestock Development Officers,
Regional Extension Officers, and visited farmers, farmer groups, District, Divisional and Village
Extension Officers. The mission also visited two research institutions.
The Government contributed to the preparation of the ICR through discussions on the
mission's Aide-Memoire, and prepared the Government's "Implementation Completion Report".



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION
PROJECT (NALERP)
(Cr. 1994-TZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        The NALERP was conceived in early 1987 at a time when the extension services in
Tanzania had been fragmented between various parastatals and the Ministry, and the foodcrop research
did not receive appropriate priority. Key aspects of extension - supervision, training, logistics, linkages
with other knowledge and input systems - had suffered from lack of resources and an inefficient
institutional structure. NALERP was also conceived at a time when the Bank was actively expanding its
support to the training and visit (T&V) extension management system throughout the Africa Region. The
project formed part of the Bank's development strategy for Tanzania which was to place emphasis on
producer incentives to encourage production of basic staples for domestic consumption and cash crops
for export. As part of this strategy, institutional improvements were being developed to improve service
delivery with an increased attention to smallholders. The Bank's involvement was designed to support
the Government of Tanzania's (GOT) objectives of food self-sufficiency, improving nutritional standards,
restoring agricultural exports to former levels, and improving rural living standards. At the beginning of
the preparation of the project, a pilot T&V project in five districts covering 50,000 farm families was
initiated. The project was signed in May 1988, became effective in July 1989 and closed in March 1997.
Project Objectives
2.        The objective of the project was to enable the Government of Tanzania to provide the
farming community with adequate extension messages to enhance agricultural production, productivity
and rural incomes. The project represented the first phase, regarded as the rehabilitation phase, of a long-
term process to establish an efficient, cost-effective and sustainable extension service. The project was to
focus on a gradual but steady and well-planned merging of crop and livestock extension services into a
multidisciplinary system, the strengthening of extension management, organization, coordination and
supervision of activities, and the upgrading and/or provision of necessary human resources, physical
infrastructure and logistic support. This was to be achieved through: (i) the establishment of a
streamlined, adequately staffed organization and management structure; (ii) the introduction of an
extension system incorporating the essential principles of the T&V management system, together with
necessary training and supervision of activities; and (iii) strengthening of the Ministry's planning and
implementation capacity, and assisting in the preparation of a second phase project, through both short
and medium-term technical assistance. The cost of the project was estimated at US$30.4 million,
financed by an IDA Credit (US$18.4 million), a loan from the African Development Fund (US$8.8



- iii -
million) and the Government of Tanzania (US$3.2 million). The African Development Fund was
responsible for the financing of the construction or upgrading of housing for Division staff, the
rehabilitation and provision of facilities in four training institutes and the overseas training program.
GOT was responsible for financing a share of the incremental recurrent costs of the project.
3.        The strategy to achieve the objectives correctly envisaged a long-term program of which the
project was the first rehabilitation phase. However, the objectives in the SAR were descriptive and no
specific indicators for level of achievement that NALERP was to have reached, at project completion,
towards longer-term program goals, were set out.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.        In general, the implementation of the project has been satisfactory. After a delay at the
outset of the project which effectively put the start of implementation back by one year, implementation
then proceeded as scheduled. The project was originally designed to cover 12 of the mainland Regions of
Tanzania, but was expanded at the time of the mid-term review. At the time of termination, the project
operated in 16 of the 20 mainland Regions, with the four Southern Highlands regions served by the
Southern Highlands Extension and Rural Financial Services project. This project, funded by IFAD and
GOT, also follows the T&V approach with the addition of a credit facility for farmers. Effectively
therefore, the essential principles of the T&V management system were implemented nationally, but
extension projects supported by other donors generally did not fully adopt the T&V approach.
Achievement of Objectives
5.        The project achieved the objective of revitalizing the extension service, building capacity to
manage and make decisions on future directions, and giving the service a new work ethic. The overall
numbers of the frontline extensionists declined due to retirements, termination of many under the civil
services reform program and ban on recruitments imposed by the Government. The number of farm
families in charge of a VEO over time typically increased, and reduced effective contact of the front-line
extensionist with the farmers. The situation was later mitigated by the introduction of group approach
under the revised extension methodology.
6.        The ultimate objective of the project was enhanced agricultural production, productivity and
rural incomes. There is clear evidence from the monitoring of results from adoption plots/units that
increases in productivity have been achieved for adopters of the extension messages. This would
translate into overall increases in production and incomes depending on the climate and season, scale of
operations, continuation of improved practices and the relationships between revenues and input costs.
Improved extension would also help to improve yields in poor seasons that would otherwise fall to a
greater degree. The average yields in 1995-1997 of some smallholder crops like sorghum, maize and
millet were higher than estimates made during appraisal. Cashew also performed well but for some other
crops like rice and beans, the yields were lower than the appraisal estimates. Overall total production
trends over the period of the project were mixed. Knowledge is but one input and variable in agricultural
production, and whilst extension plays a clear role in awareness, it is not possible to estimate to what
extent it alone influences adoption. The absence of baseline studies makes it even more difficult to gauge



- lv -
the overall impact. Therefore, no robust conclusion can be drawn on the effect of the project alone on the
national production of food and cash crops.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.        VEOs generally remained in the same villages to which they were originally posted and dealt
with the same farmer clientele. The messages delivered by the Extension service were predominantly
technical, simple and showed a response during the growing and harvesting seasons in which they were
applied. Given an ineffective Extension service prior to project initiation, these messages were relevant
early on in the project and generally were considered useful, at least by those in close contact with
extension staff. It is not fully determinable whether farmers found at least some of the technical
messages strongly relevant, given their repetitiveness and growing farmer awareness. The changing
farmer need should drive the generation of technology and its dissemination. Both the research systems
and extension in agriculture need to be more demand-driven than was the case during NALERP period.
8.        Whilst the training gave technical competence in both crops and livestock matters, some
continued to emphasize their original background and were weak on the other aspects. Also, many VEOs
lacked skills and knowledge on important topics such as farm budgeting, plant protection, farm
economics, and land use. As the focus of groups for contact points was introduced, VEOs were not able
to fully use the groups due to their lack of skills and knowledge in this area. These are the areas in which
skills of the front-line extensionists need to be enhanced.
9.    The effectiveness of the extension service declined in the second half of the project, due mainly
to macro-economic conditions, from decreasing funds for regular activities, decreasing numbers of front-
line staff, and an inability of the extension service to diagnose problems and change the messages in
response to farmers needs and circumstances. Some of the vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles became
unserviceable!!, and there had been a restriction on field activities and supervision by GOT since 1994
due to lack of operational funds. Although research and extension are priority areas for Government
budgetary support in Tanzania, the extension activities did not attract sufficient funding. As a result, the
numbers of farmers directly contacted by public extension service fell from 1994 onwards.
Sustainability
10.   The SAR considered sustainability from two viewpoints-institutional and financial.
Institutional sustainability, which depends on reaching anticipated management strength following
restructuring, commitment of all concerned and strong leadership in the MAC, was secured. The
financial sustainability would be a question mark if it is viewed from the limited point of view of the
MAC being able to finance the costs of extension with a continuously rising Government share and a
declining IDA share, as the originally envisaged funding arrangement implied. This assumption did
not materialize as the Government faced acute financial stringency which restricted funding to its
development portfolio, including NALERP. However, viewed in the wider context of NALERP
I' The project procured 169 4-WD vehicles, 892 motorcycles and 9,483 bicycles.



v -
being phase one of a long term national extension program, whose activities are now being sustained
under the follow-on phase 2 NAEP II, sustainability in the longer term can be considered likely.
Project Costs
11.       Total costs of the project up to March 31, 1997 were US$27.7 million and, including
committed costs of civil works to be financed by ADF of US$1.3 million, total costs will be US$28.6
million as against an appraisal estimate of US$30.4 million. Savings in costs, particularly for vehicles,
enabled the project to expand into four additional regions within the financing available. Total recurrent
costs were estimated in the SAR at US$11.2 million. Actual recurrent costs of the project were US$7
million. Investment costs were higher by $2.3 million than that anticipated at appraisal. The total
Government contribution to financing the project amounted to US$855,000, or approximately 3% of total
project costs.
Bank Performance
12.       Bank supervision missions were frequent, with staff from the Resident Mission and the
Nairobi Mission often participating. Generally supervision was satisfactory, but there should have been
closer supervision of the M&E activities under the project. Africa Region staff assisted the Government
in the mid-tern review of the project and worked with the Government on the preparation of NAEP II
and the development of pilot initiatives that will be supported under that project.
Borrower Performance
13.       Generally, the performance of the Borrower has been satisfactory. The main covenants
relating to timely implementation of the project were complied with although there was a delay at the
outset. Legal covenants have been complied with, with the exception of those covering the agreements
on staffing levels and the increasing budgetary allocations to cover annual costs as determined in the
annual work plan. Accounting and reporting have been carried to a satisfactory standard. The
Government has also prepared its contribution to the ICR.
Project Outcome
14.   The project achieved the objective of revitalizing the extension service, building capacity to
manage and make decisions on future directions, and giving the service a new work ethic.
Structured work schedules of frontline extensionists brought orderliness in contacting farmers, and
through extension intermediation farmer-extension-research linkages improved. The extension
methodology underwent a slow but measured change to respond to some emerging challenges like
the introduction of group approach for a participatory consultation and maintaining outreach; and
extension participating in FAO-supported food security initiative and Sasakawa Global-scheme on
input supplies. Beneficiary assessment study results show that a high percentage of farmers (77%)
reported beneficial contact with extension. Substantial increases in yield on adoptors farms were
recorded. Project surveys show substantial yield increases in several crops, particularly on adopters



- vi -
farms. However, the extension management of MOA remained monolithic with insignificant
structured role for local Governments and other stakeholders in policy fornulation or program
operation; the extension advice was generally top-down than demand-driven; and due to acute
financial stringency affecting its entire development portfolio the Government could not provide
adequate counterpart funding to this project as well, affecting field implementation. Therefore,
while the development objectives were achieved, the outcome of the project is considered to be
marginally satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
15.       Findings: The experience of T&V extension in Tanzania reflects that of similar projects in
the Africa Region as reported by OED2/ * Whilst the project provided the necessary impetus to
rehabilitate and build capacity within the extension service, to improve efficiency through the
introduction of a unified extension system and to provide the much-needed resources, the project was
negatively affected by a lack of adequate counterpart funds from Government for field activities
including linkage promoting activities between farmers and the research/extension knowledge systems.
This ultimately led to somewhat reduced impact.
16.       Future Operations: As foreseen during the design of NALERP, a second-phase extension
project, National Agricultural Extension Project Phase II (NAEP II) was prepared during 1995 and
became effective in October, 1996. NAEP II incorporates lessons leaned from NALERP and includes
measures to improve the sustainability and cost-effectiveness of the extension service. This project is
financing the continuation of T&V activities in Tanzania with an emphasis on group contacts and farmer
participation in farming systems-based extension messages. NAEP II will build on the experiences of
NALERP and will pursue other extension approaches to ensure financial sustainability (e.g., cost-sharing
and private sector and NGOs participation in crop-specific farming systems), participation in the
knowledge generation process by the farmning community, and more cost-effective communication
technology.
17.       Key Lessons Learned: The key lessons learned from the project were as follows:
In a long-term program, specific objectives, with indicators, for each of the phases
in the program should be clearly identified at the start of each phase. In any case,
indicators should be set out in order to objectively monitor project achievement.
Simple technical messages are often initially relevant to farmers on first contact
with an extension service but, after they choose either to adopt or not to adopt,
messages need to address newly emerging needs of the various segments of farmers
within the overall farming community. The current systems need to be strengthened
to generate messages to satisfy farmer needs. The extension system needs to be
more demand-driven.
21 "Agricultural Extension and Research - Achievements and Problems in National Systems", OED, June 1997.



- vii -
Whilst project managers need to focus on the operational activities of an extension
project - training and visiting regularly with impact messages and contact points -
they should not lose sight of the overall objective of extension - outreach to most
farm households in response to farmers' priorities. Excessive monitoring of project
activities within the direct control of project management. (e.g., numbers and
frequency of contacts, bi-monthly workshops, supervision visits) can detract
attention from the more important evaluation of progress against overall
development objectives. The project should have carried out a baseline survey at the
beginning and later a survey at the conclusion to determine impacts (for example,
increases in yields, farmer incomes and adoption rates).
The involvement of farmers in designing and operating extension programs is a
critical element in ensuring the continued technical relevance and usefulness of the
service, which is essential for maintaining farmer demand and its technical
sustainability.
*      The change to group-based extension was positive as ownership of the program was
then transferred to the community. Extension staff should have skills and
knowledge in managing groups, and participatory approaches.
-      In a country with large distances and poor road conditions, the cost of operating,
maintaining and replacing a large fleet of vehicles is high and there is a risk that it
will not receive priority in the Government's allocation of scarce funds.
*      In T&V extension systems, VEOs should be redeployed to new villages every two
years in order to contact a new clientele who are unaware of the available simple
technical messages. The Government does not consider this suggestion feasible, in
view of costs involved in transferring VEOs every two years.
If a Government finds difficulty in providing the required resources to support a
T&V extension system, the operations should be scaled down to match the resources
that the Government can reasonably be expected to allocate to extension in the
longer term.
*     One of the main purposes of the ICR exercise is to analyse and document the lessons
learned and assess the future operations of projects. An ICR exercise, completed
after a follow-on project is already effective, can provide little input to the
preparation and design of following projects, and an opportunity is thereby lost to
fully incorporate the lessons learnt in further Bank assistance. In the context of a
long-term program which envisages follow-on Bank assistance, the procedures for
ICRs need to be altered to require the ICR to be completed and available at appraisal
of succeeding operations.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(NALERP)
(Cr. 1994-TZ)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
18.       The NALERP was conceived in early 1987 at a time when the extension services in Tanzania
had been fragmented between various parastatals and the Ministry, and the foodcrop research did not
receive appropriate priority. Key aspects of extension - supervision, training, logistics, linkages with other
knowledge and input systems - had suffered from lack of resources and an inefficient institutional
structure. NALERP was also conceived at a time when the Bank was actively expanding its support to the
training and visit (T&V) extension management system throughout the Africa Region. The project
formed part of the Bank's development strategy for Tanzania which was to place emphasis on producer
incentives to encourage production of basic staples for domestic consumption and cash crops for export.
As part of this strategy, institutional improvements were being developed to improve service delivery with
an increased attention to smallholders. The Bank's involvement was designed to support the Government
of Tanzania's (GOT) objectives of food self-sufficiency, improving nutritional standards, restoring
agricultural exports to former levels, and improving rural living standards. At the beginning of the
preparation of the project, a pilot T&V project in five districts covering 50,000 farm families was initiated.
19.       The objective of the project was to enable the Government of Tanzania to provide the
farming community with adequate extension messages to enhance agricultural production, productivity
and rural incomes. This was to be achieved through:
(i)   the establishment of a streamlined, adequately staffed organization and management
structure;
(ii)   the introduction of an extension system based on the Training and Visit (T & V)
methodology, together with necessary training and supervision of activities; and
(iii)  strengthening of the Ministry's planning and implementation capacity, and assisting in
the preparation of a second phase project, through both short and medium-term technical
assistance.
20.       The project represented the first phase, regarded as the rehabilitation phase, of a long-term
process to establish an efficient, cost-effective and sustainable extension service. The project was to focus
on a gradual but steady and well-planned merging of crop and livestock extension services into a
multidisciplinary system, the strengthening of extension management, organization, coordination and



- 2 -
supervision of activities, and the upgrading and/or provision of necessary human resources, physical
infrastructure and logistic support.
21.       The strategy to achieve the objectives correctly envisaged a long-term program of which the
project was the first rehabilitation phase. However, the objectives in the SAR were descriptive and no
specific indicators for level of achievement that NALERP was to have reached, at project completion,
towards longer-term program goals, were set out. No time frame was given for the longer-term goals.
B. ACHIEVEMIENT OF OBJECTIVES
General
22.       The project has satisfactorily achieved its development objective of rehabilitating the
extension services provided to farmers and livestock keepers. The project re-invigorated the field, district
and region extension staff who previously had no meaningful work program and only limited financial
and logistic resources to carry out their work. At the time of termination, the project operated in 16 of the
20 mainland Regions of Tanzania having been included in the following order.
1989    Tabora, Singida, Dodoma
1990    Kilimanjaro, Kagera, Arusha
1991    Shinyanga, Mwanza, Mara
1992    Morogoro, Lindi, Mtwara
1993    Kigoma
1994    Tanga, Dar es Salaam, Coast
23.       The four Southern Highlands regions of Ruvuma, Rukwa, Mbeya and Iringa are served by
the Southern Highlands Extension and Rural Financial Services project. The project, funded by IFAD and
GOT, also follows the T&V approach with the addition of a credit facility for farmers. The project
contributed to coordination of other donor activities in extension, but there was limited adoption of the
strict T&V approach in other projects. Other projects in extension implemented outside the MAC did not
unify their approach to that of NALERP, nor did they coordinate their programmes.
24.       At the height of the project 3,628 VEOs were responsible for 3,680 villages, 2,145,000
farmers (assuming 583 farmers per village) and 591 farmers per VEO against project targets of 4,113
VEOs, 4,800 villages and 2,800,000 farmers at a ratio of 681 farmers per VEO.
25.       The effectiveness of the extension service declined in the second half of the project, due
mainly to macro-economic conditions, from decreasing funds for regular activities, decreasing numbers of
front-line staff, and an inability of the extension service to diagnose problems and change the messages in
response to farmers needs and circumstances. Some of the vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles became
unserviceable, and there had been a restriction on field activities and supervision by GOT since 1994 due
to lack of operational funds. The project had a program of periodically replacing the unserviceable
vehicles, and this was done during the project period . Although research and extension are priority areas
for Government budgetary support in Tanzania, the extension activities did not attract sufficient funding.



-3 -
As a result, the numbers of farmers contacted fell from 1994 onwards. At the conclusion of the project,
the estimated number of farmers contacted by the extension service in 1996/97 was 1.5 million.
26.       The Ministry modified the Extension methodology in response to operational experience and
funding constraints. Within the first 12 months of project implementation, VEO training sessions were
reduced in frequency from fortnightly to monthly and SMS training from monthly to bi-monthly. As a
result, more time was available for extension, costs were reduced, and there was no loss of staff
competence in the messages they were disseminating to farmers.
27.       The major change has been away from contact farmers established for points of regular
contact with VEOs, to VEOs working with groups, in many cases already established for other purposes.
The pilot T&V project established to test the effectiveness of this methodology were based on the Ujamaa
concept and were already established as part of an administrative set-up, or for collective agricultural
production or political purpose. NALERP then attempted to set up contact farmer groups through the
direct actions of VEOs. These new groups were sometimes formed on an incorrect perception of purpose
- the members believed that they would obtain credit or inputs in addition to extension. This was observed
in 1991 and questions of sustainability of the contact farmer groups newly set up for extension was
questioned at that time. By the time of mid term review, the emphasis was on working with farmer groups
that either existed already within the communities, or were established in harmony with community
practices. At NALERP completion, the use of groups by the extension service was still evolving. One of
the factors responsible for lack of better performance in this area was that the staff had little or no skills or
knowledge on group formation and dynamics.
Institutional Change
28.       The Ministry amalgamated the Departments of Agriculture and Livestock under a
Commissioner who reports to the Principal Secretary. Extension is under an Assistant Commissioner
(AC) reporting to the Commissioner, who is supported technically by Assistant Commissioners for Plant
Protection, Livestock Development, Crop Development and Irrigation. At the regional level, unification
was achieved through a Regional Agricultural and Livestock Development Officer (RALDO) supported
by specialists and a Regional Extension Officer (REO), a structure which is repeated at the district level.
At the divisional (i.e., sub-district) level an Extension Officer, usually holding a Diploma, supervises 4-6
Village Extension Officers (VEOs).
29.       The institutional changes associated with unification, in terms of structure, management and
administration have been successfully implemented and are perceived as being a positive development at
all levels in the organization. At the front-line, although retrained, a significant number of VEOs,
particularly those who formerly were Livestock Extension Officers, emphasized their previous area of
specialization. This is not surprising given a training period of only five months and a natural tendency to
feel more confident in the discipline in which one was first trained and has the longest experience.
Management and Supervision
30.       Implementing the T&V system established a strong management system and management
ethic within the Extension service. Regular visit schedules to contact farmers and groups are maintained
and monitored through reporting procedures and field visits. Supervision at all levels however was
adversely affected by lack of operational funds, and supervision by headquarters, regional, district and
divisional staff were 34%, 50%, 42% and 54% respectively of target levels.



- 4 -
31.       The Mid-Term Review, seen by management as an opportunity to take stock of progress and
problems, was preceded by discussions and interviews with extension staff, trainers, farners, researchers,
NGOs and others in 8 of the 13 regions of the project. The results of the survey guided discussion at the
mid term review and enabled informed decisions to be taken on a wide range of issues including visit
schedules, supervision, adoption plots, message content and the use of groups as an alternative to
individuals as contact points for extension messages. These examples demonstrate an increased
managerial capacity of MAC to plan, implement and supervise a national extension programme, and this
increased capacity is attributable to the project.
Training
32.       Generalist front-line officers have been created by re-training through courses of five months
duration as opposed to ten months as anticipated at appraisal. At project initiation, approximately 40% of
front-line staff were untrained Field Assistants. No training was provided at this level and most of the
Field Assistants were retrenched.
33.       The VEO retraining program was slow up to the time of the mid-term review at which time
only 18% of the target had been reached. The situation improved after mid term review and certificate-
level retraining of 1,446 extension officers, 69% of the target, or 50% of the total extension field force,
was completed. Whilst the training gave some technical competence in both crops and livestock matters,
VEOs continued to emphasize their original background and were weak on the other aspects. Also, VEO
lacked skills and knowledge on important topics such as farm budgeting, plant protection, farm
economics, and land use. The VEO did improve the delivery of information on markets and prices. The
training of trainers program was 54% completed. Other higher-level, overseas training and overseas study
tours were carried out satisfactorily.
Civil Works
34.       The civil works component for housing, financed by ADB, was not satisfactorily
implemented. The initial assumption that village labour would be volunteered to assist in the construction
of 300 Divisional Extension Officers (DIVEO) houses did not eventuate. A reduced building program
was then planned (141 houses) with higher unit costs, but this then fell behind due to delays and failure of
contractors to perform as required. At the time of closing of the IDA credit, a total of 67 houses had been
completed but contracts for the remaining houses is in force and construction is underway. The DIVEO
housing program has been incorporated into NAEP II. The rehabilitation of the Training Institutes was
satisfactorily completed.
Technical Assistance
35.       The long-term technical assistance team to support project implementation started work
during 1990, and finished in 1992 with the exception of the Financial Advisor who remained throughout
the duration of the project. The experiences of the technical assistance financed by the project were
mixed. In general, the long-term consultants in Agricultural Extension Methodology, Finance and
Procurement proved to be satisfactory, but the Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist's terms of reference
were not completed at the end the assignment. This had important implications on the performance of the
Monitoring and Evaluation component of the project. The short-term consultancies proved to be effective
with the exception of the consultancy on cotton research which did not result in developing appropriate
recommendations for farmers.



-5 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
36.       Implementation of this component was negatively affected by the consultant not completing
the task of developing and implementing systems for M & E of project activities and impact. The SAR
specified that baseline surveys would be undertaken in the first and second years of the project and impact
evaluations of T&V in the regions at the commencement of years two and three. These surveys were not
undertaken. The Overall Evaluation System specified in the SAR was not installed. Although introduced
only in September 1994, quantitative goals are now established prior to the commencement of the growing
season. The M&E staff in the Ministry did make progress in regular reporting of activities from field
level through a system of data gathering and analysis, and coordinated three yield/adoption surveys.
Research-Extension Collaboration
37.       Formal links between Research and Extension were built into the project design. These
included the posts of Research-Extension Liaison Officers (RELOs), pre-season workshops, bi-monthly
workshops for the training of SMSs and two annual workshops to be held at zonal research stations. The
Farming Systems Research Programme was expected to provide additional opportunities for collaboration
within the context of establishing and responding to priority needs of rural communities and RELOs were
expected to be seconded to the Farming Systems Research (FSR) team to facilitate this work.
38.       Limited improvements in working relationships were achieved during the project period.
RELOs were not appointed as MAC management decided that the REO could perform this task. At best,
the calendar of seasonal impact points selected by extension officers were sent to the zonal research
station for their commnents. The monthly workshops, which were changed to bi-monthly early in project
implementation, did provide a forum for effective interaction between extension and research. With
NALERP funds, researchers generally attended as resource persons. However, research priorities were
not reviewed at these workshops, but this role has now been taken over by Zonal Committee Meetings
which set zonal research priorities.
39.       At the mid term review, the FSR programme was found as being not fully successful in
establishing closer relationships. Some improvements however occurred after 1993. The FSR
programme has mapped sub-zones and increased its use of PRA approaches in identifying problems.
Inevitably, the subsequent research plots are scattered and difficult and expensive to establish and
monitor. Some research stations have entered into fonnal agreements with Extension for assistance to
implement the research programme. Nevertheless, a check conducted by the ICR mission in one district
in August 1997, showed that some extension messages have remained largely unchanged during the
project period, although the economic analysis of fertilizer application was added after the mid term
review. The messages concerned picking and grading of cotton, storage of paddy, transplanting,
fertilizing, weeding and harvesting of vegetables, whereas farmer priority problems identified at the same
time were credit, input supply, marketing, labour constraints and soil fertility.
40.       Initiatives were taken by the Ministry to improve Research-Extension collaboration. The
Commissioner of Agriculture and Livestock Development and the Commissioner of Research and
Training in 1992 agreed to provide resources to improve linkages in defined areas. The 1992 policy
statement and implementation guidelines addressed the issue, a Zonal Technical Committees were formed,
Extension was regularly represented at the national and zonal levels of research committees, and donor



- 6 -
coordinating committees formed in some regions to remove duplication in extension and research
activities. These initiatives however appear to have been of limited benefit. For the future the
Government could consider a more likely strategy for improving collaboration, namely, by steadily
increasing formalization of roles, responsibilities, funding arrangements and lines of communication
within the framework of FSR as this method would involve close collaboration with farming communities,
by both research and extension systems.
Women and Youth and Environment
41.   NALERP data were not disaggregated with respect to gender. A limited study (300 farmers in six
regions) of contact farmers/ members of contact groups conducted in 1995 gives an indication of the
female participation in the project. The study revealed that 39% of contact farmers were women, 43% of
the membership of contact groups were female, and adoption rates in both crops and livestock
components were higher amongst women than men. These figures indicate that, at least at the interface
between the extension system and farming communities, the project has had some success in reaching
women farmers. The result is significant in the light of the fact that only 12% of VEOs and approximately
20% of SMSs are women. In contrast, of the 879 farmers who received specialist training under the
project, only 185 were women. The mid term review observed that whilst women and youth groups are
common, few VEOs used these groups as a contact groups for extension. In view of the fact that
extension messages contained advice on soil conservation, optimal use of pesticides, farm forestry,
improved fallows, afforestation activities (agro-forestry, fuelwood production), composting,
rationalized use of fertilizers, and water harvesting the environment impact of the project should be
regarded as beneficial.
Impact
42.   The first attempt to evaluate impact was carried out in 1995 as a part of the preparation for
the proposed second phase of support to Tanzania's Agricultural Extension System ("An Evaluation
of NALERP Phase I by Beneficiaries", Sokoine University, 1996). In this survey, a "random
sample" of 50 farmners was taken in each of six districts in the villages where VEOs were resident (in
70% of the total villages under the extension program). Most respondents (77.7%) reported that they
were visited by the extension agent every two weeks and those visited irregularly (22.3%) were
divided equally among those who were contact farmers and belonged to a contact group, and those
who were not contact farmers. Extension was thus able to reach a large majority of farmers in the
target area.
43.       Yield measurements for adopters were taken from adoption plots. The plots were
demonstrating a package of recommendations and were monitored by the VEO during the growing season
for their demonstration effect. Under these circumstances it would be reasonable to assume a yield gap
between these plots and the fields of others who adopted. A survey based on a random sample of adopters
which excluded the adoption plot would have more accurately represented yield increases on the farms of
those farmers who had accepted extension messages.
44.       The surveys conducted by the project to assess yield impact indicated high yield increases
(e.g., maize yields doubled in the Coastal, Western and Central Zones, and were up 33% in the Northern



-7 -
Zone). However, an analysis of national yield data3_/ for the major smallholder crops indicates that yields
for maize, millet and cassava are 3% to 4% above pre-project levels, yields for sorghum and beans are
equal to, and yields for coffee and rice about 15% below pre-project levels. The main exception is cashew
where yields for 1995/97 are up over 40% on 1987/98 levels. The national production experience over the
life of the project has been mixed. Total production of millet and sorghum is over 20% higher than before
NALERP, rice 3% higher, but production of coffee and maize declined by 10%, cassava 14% and beans
25%. However, it needs to be noted that crop yield data collected by different sources displayed
considerable variability.
45.       There is evidence from the monitoring of results from adoption plots/units that increases in
productivity have been achieved mainly for adopters of the extension messages. This would translate into
overall increases in production and incomes depending on the climate and season, scale of operations,
continuation of improved practices and the relationships between revenues and input costs. Improved
extension would also help to improve yields in poor seasons that would otherwise fall to a greater degree.
Knowledge is but one input and variable in agricultural production, and whilst extension plays a clear role
in awareness, it is not possible to estimate to what extent it alone influences adoption. The absence of
baseline studies makes it even more difficult to gauge the overall impact. However, there is considerable
anecdotal evidence of yield increased reported by farmers and these were due to several factors such as
adoption of extension messages, better inputs, use of farm implements and better access to markets.
Therefore, no robust conclusion can be drawn on the impact of the project alone on the national
production of food and cash crops.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       Total costs of the project up to 31 March, 1997 were US$27.7 million and, including
committed costs of civil works to be financed by ADF of US$1.3 million, total costs will be US$28.6
million as against an appraisal estimate of US$30.4 million. Savings in unit costs, particularly for
vehicles, enabled the project to expand into four additional regions within the budgeted costs and
financing plan. Total recurrent costs were estimated at US$11.2 million. Actual recurrent costs of the
project were US$7 million. Investment costs were higher by $2.3 million than that anticipated at
appraisal.
47.       The SAR identified a level of Government financing of the project equal to US$3.2 million,
representing its share of recurrent operating costs (33% of local costs). This represented approximately
10% of total project costs. Goods and services, including vehicles and equipment procured under the
project were exempted from taxes and duties. Therefore the total Government contribution to financing
the project comprised the actual Treasury releases applied to counterpart funding of the project. This
amounted to US$855,000, or approximately 3% of total project costs. This was made up of $161,000
being the Government's 5% share of the recurrent costs over $3.05 million (SDR 2.2 million) up to
US$6.3 million, and 100% thereafter up to the final total of US$7 million (figures are approximate).
3' FAOSTAT - World Agricultural Information Centre - an analysis of three-year moving averages of yields and total
production of major smallholder crops.



-8-
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Limits on Project Counterpart Funds
48.       The fiscal analysis in the SAR set out the cash flow of the Extension service which would
depend on the annually increasing allocations from the Government's recurrent budget. The project was
designed to place increasing responsibilities on Government to fund recurrent costs and the requirement to
make these increases was written into the Development Credit Agreement as a covenant. Originally, the
Bank was to finance operating costs on a sliding scale, starting at 100% reducing to 55% up to a certain
limit, then nil. Following a request from the Ministry of Finance in 1994 to alter the financing
percentages on the basis of a tight budgetary situation, the Bank agreed to finance 95% of recurrent costs
up to the ceiling set out in the Credit Agreement.
49.       The Bank's supervision missions reported that, from 1994, inadequate funding of recurrent
costs from Government sources affected the project's operations particularly in relation to supervision at
field levels. Repairs, maintenance and operations of vehicles were also affected. The Ministry of Finance
in July, 1994 requested the Bank to consider a reduction in the counterpart funds required to be committed
to the project on the basis of prevailing economic situation and tight budgetary constraints. Whilst the
request was for the Bank to finance 100% of recurrent operating costs, the Bank gave its agreement to
amend the Development Credit Agreement to finance 95% of incremental operating expenses.
50.       Above the limit of IDA financing of recurrent costs (US$6.3 million) the costs were borne
totally by Government. Project activities were scaled according to expected availability of funds from
Government. As mentioned above, total recurrent costs were some $4 million short of that anticipated at
appraisal. This had an impact on the scale and frequency of project activities. The Government's total
contribution to the project's costs out of $29 million was $855,000, about 3%. This places the project in
non-compliance with OP 6.30.
Poor Integration of Agricultural and Livestock Skills at Field Level
51.       Whilst the training gave some technical competence in both crops and livestock matters,
some VEOs continued to emphasize their original background and were weak on the other aspects. Also,
VEO lacked skills and knowledge on important topics such as farm budgeting, plant protection, farm
economics, and land use. As the focus of groups for contact points was introduced, VEOs were not able
to fully use the groups due to lack of adequate skills and knowledge in this area. These areas represent
the future training needs for the field extensionists.
New Challenges, beyond Technical Matters, for which the Extension System was not Fully Prepared
52.       The messages delivered by the Extension service were predominantly technical, simple and
showed a response during the growing and harvesting season in which they were applied. Given an
ineffective Extension service prior to project initiation, these messages were strongly relevant early on in
the project and generally were considered useful by the farmers. It is not fully determinable whether
farmers found at least some of the technical messages strongly relevant, given their repetitiveness and
growing farmer awareness. The changing farmer need should drive the generation of technology and its
dissemination. Both the research systems and extension in agriculture need to be more demand-driven
than was the case during NALERP period.



9-
D. SUSTAINABILITY
53.   The SAR considered sustainability of the project from two viewpoints - institutional and
financial. Institutional sustainability which would depend on reaching anticipated management
strength following re-structuring, commitment from all involved and a strong leadership within
MAC, was achieved. Financial sustainability was expected to be achieved through a combination of
(i) cost reductions due to the merger of agriculture and livestock extension, and the unification of
extension programs financed by different donors; and (ii) an expected 4% growth in real terms in
budget allocations to extension. The SAR estimated that the Ministry "would easily be in a position
to sustain activities under the project". Government Budget allocations to MAC increased until 1992
in real terms and as a percentage of Agricultural GDP over 1988 levels. The allocation then fell
below the 1988 levels in real terms and from 1.2% to 0.7% of the GDP. The financing of the project
was evidently designed to place more demands on resources from within Government over the course
of the project. Despite recognition in the SAR of the danger that eroding budget allocations could
affect project implementation and full realization of its objectives this somewhat optimistic
assumption was made, which in fact did not materialize.
54.       We have also taken into account that the Bank and the Government have had an
understanding of having a program approach in funding extension. In the SAR, the NALERP was
deemed as " the first phase of a long -term process to establish an efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable
--extension service on the Tanzanian mainland". Following this approach a second phase extension project
was approved by the Bank (effective October 1996) and is currently under implementation. The activities
started under the NALERP are being sustained under the phase 2 project NAEP II.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
55.       The Bank's performance during the design stages was satisfactory, with the Bank providing
guidance to the National Task Force on Extension during 1987. The Bank also assisted the Ministry to
implement the pilot project, based on T&V, covering some 50,000 families in five districts. The pilot
T&V project gave an insight into problems that later were to appear again during NALERP. The SAR
identified the problems as: (i) lack of funds thereby reducing the frequency of regular training sessions
and workshops; (ii) ineffective contacts between research, extension and farmers; (iii) inadequate
supervision of activities. As mentioned above, the pilot addressed already-established farner groups, and
not groups established by VEOs. The SAR admits that it was too early to evaluate the pilot performance
and impact, but yet concluded (based mainly on results from other countries) that T&V was the correct
approach as it was an efficient management tool, developed stronger and more efficient linkages with the
research community, and induced research to develop farmer oriented programs. The design process
should have included a comprehensive evaluation of the pilot phase.
56.       Bank performance in portfolio management after the project became effective was
satisfactory. Bank supervision missions were frequent, with staff from the Resident Mission and the
Nairobi Bank Regional Mission participating. Bank staff assisted the Government in the mid-term review



-10-
of the project and worked jointly with the Government on the preparation of NAEP II and the
development of pilot initiatives that will be supported under that project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
57.       Generally, the performance of the Borrower has been satisfactory. The main covenants
relating to timely implementation of the project were complied with although there was a delay at the
outset. Legal covenants monitored by the Bank's supervision staff have been complied with. Accounting
and reporting have been carried to a satisfactory standard through the Technical Assistance to the
Department financed by the credit. The Government has also prepared its contribution to the ICR.
58.       However, two covenants not monitored by the Bank in the Development Credit Agreement
are worthy of mention. Section 3.04 required the Government to maintain the establishment of the
extension service at the level agreed with the Bank as at September 1989, with staff leaving being
replaced with diploma/certificate holders. The field staffing levels under T&V have a significant impact
at the level of outreach achievable and, as mentioned above, substantial numbers of staff have been
retrenched under the rationalization of MAC. Therefore, strictly speaking, this covenant was partially
complied with. Indeed it was not possible for the Government to comply, given the impact of later Bank-
supported adjustment operations on staffing levels within the public service.
59.       There was also a covenant, Section 3.05, that concerned budgetary allocations to extension.
The Government was to annually increase budgetary allocations over the level provided in 1987/88 fiscal
year to cover annual costs as agreed in the annual work plan. This was not complied with.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
60.   The project achieved the objective of revitalizing extension service, building capacity to
manage and make decision on future directions, and giving the service a new work ethic. The
successfully executed training program helped improve knowledge base and skills of the extension
service. Structured work schedules of the frontline extensionists brought orderliness in contacting
farmers and in extension delivery. The two-way traffic between the researchers and the farmers in
resolving farmer production issues through extension intermediation got well established, and
linkages between farmers, extension and research improved. Substantial yield increases were
recorded on adopters fields. Over the project period the extension methodology underwent a slow
but measured change to respond to emerging challenges such as the down-sizing of civil service and
consequently of the front-line extensionists. The program adopted the group approach in place of the
earlier contact farmer approach to maintain its outreach and to make consultative process more
participatory. The extension service participated in and helped carry out several pilot initiatives to
respond to farmer needs - the FAO's food security pilot and Sasakawa Global's input supply
initiative were supported and partly executed at the field level by the extension service. The lessons
learned have been factored into the Phase 2 extension project.



61.   However, there were several emerging demands and challenges in its long implementation
period that the project did not address adequately. It also faced implementation constraints due
mainly to acute financial stringency faced by the Government. A central role for farmers in
technology generation and dissemination was not envisaged in project design and therefore extension
advice continued to be more top-down than demand-driven. The group approach in contacting
farmers only partially addressed this deficiency. The extension management arrangement continued
to be largely monolithic with MOA hierarchy remaining in charge, from policy formulation at the
headquarters level to implementation at the village level. Local Governments, other stakeholder
agencies like NGOs and farmer organizations did not have much structured contact with MOA
implementers. Though private sector and NGOs started emerging as providers of extension in
different parts of the country, the project did not take note of these developments. The project
implementation in the field suffered from government's inability to find adequate counterpart
resources to fund project activities (almost all development projects faced this issue including this
project). Therefore, while the development objectives were achieved, the outcome of the project is
considered marginally satisfactory for the above reasons.
62.   These lessons of NALERP have been appropriately incorporated in the follow-on project
namely the National Agricultural Extension Project Phase 2 (NAEP 2). The phase 2 project
encourages pluralism in providing extension services. Local authorities and other stakeholders
including NGOs are represented on the district extension coordination committees responsible for
program planning and implementation oversight. The project provides for undertaking pilot
initiatives in the areas of extension management, extension methodology, pluralism and other related
issues articulated by the beneficiaries. Impact assessments through surveys and beneficiary
assessments have been planned and would provide reliable indicators for evaluating project impact.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
63.       A review of NALERP was undertaken in 1995 as part of the preparation for NAEP II which
then addressed further modifications to the T&V approach that would finally be part of the NAEP II
design. These were to (i) address issues in financial sustainability through collaboration with NGOs, and
through the transfer of responsibility for commodity-focused farming systems to private agro-industries;
(ii) farmer participation in the generation and dissemination of technology; and (iii) use of communication
technology in extension. In addition, the research programs now being undertaken have incorporated
farming systems research with environmental and production sustainability as key objectives.
64.       The operations of NALERP have been taken over by NAEP II, which will follow the T&V
approach but will continue with the emphasis on group-based contact points and test through pilots several
new initiatives in extension methodologies and extension management. NAEP II is operational in the
same 16 regions as NALERP and the IFAD Southern Highlands project in the remaining four regions of
mainland Tanzania iis expected to be extended and adopt similar alterations in emphasis.



- 12 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
65.        The key lessons learned from the project were as follows:
*      In a long-term program, specific objectives, with indicators, for each of the phases in
the program should be clearly identified at the start of each phase. In any case,
indicators should be set out in order to objectively monitor project achievement.
*     The pilot scheme provided insufficient input to project design since inadequate time
was allowed for experience to be generated and an evaluation to be made. However,
later the lessons learned from fertilizer experiments were suitably incorporated
into the extension messages under the program.
*      Simple technical messages are often initially relevant to farmers on initial contacts
with an extension service. Later, the messages need to address newly emerging
issues raised by the farmers. In order to appropriately respond to these issues the
extension system should be more demand-driven.
Whereas project activities within the direct control of project management (e.g.,
numbers and frequency of contacts, bi-monthly workshops, supervision visits) were
adequately monitored, the impacts were not sufficiently studied. The project did not
carry out initial base-line surveys to later measure project impacts.
The involvement of farmers in designing and operating extension programs is a
critical element in ensuring the continued technical relevance and usefulness of the
service, which is essential for maintaining farmer demand and its technical
sustainability.
*     The change to group-based extension was positive as ownership of the program was
then transferred to the community. Extension staff should have skills and knowledge
in managing groups, and participatory approaches.
*     Government commitment is essential for T&V projects to have a successful outcome,
both in terms of staffing numbers and funding from Government budgetary
resources. If a Government finds difficulty in providing the required resources to
support a T&V extension system, the operations should be scaled down or
redesigned to match the resources that the Government can reasonably be expected to
allocate to extension in the longer term.
*     One of the main purposes of the ICR exercise is to analyse and document the lessons
learned and assess the future operations of projects. An ICR exercise, completed
after a follow-on project is already effective, can provide little input to the
preparation and design of following projects, and an opportunity is thereby lost to
fully incorporate the lessons learnt in further Bank assistance. In the context of a
long-term program which envisages follow-on Bank assistance, the procedures for



- 13 -
ICRs need to be altered to require the ICR to be completed and available at appraisal
of succeeding operations.



- 14-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial   Partial   Negligible     Not
(/)        (1)        (1)      Applicable
(/)
Macro policies                  El        :I           0           El
Sector policies                t1                                  El
Financial objectives           El         F7i          0I         [I]
Institutional development       E                      El          El
Physical objectives            n7         F71        Eo            E
Poverty reduction               7            l         E           E
Gender issues                   El         E1         El          El
Other social objectives        El         Fl           El          E
Environmental objectives      EF           F]          El          E
Public sector management       El          El          E           E
Private sector development     El          EZ          E          L
Other (specify)                 El         El         El           El
B. Project sustainability      Likely ll   Unlikely  Uncertain
1/ In the longer termn.



- 15 -
Highly
C. Bank performance          Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
('/)         (1)         (1)
Identification                          [ 
Preparation assistance      E           E
Appraisal                                i:
Supervision                 7            El
Highly
D. Borrower performance         satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
(V')        (/)         (1)
Preparation                   L            7          F
Implementation
Covenant compliance            L          F           E
Operation (if applicable)                 LI           L E
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of outcome     satisfactory  Satisfactory-4J Unsatisfactory Unsatisfacto
(5/)   (a/)      (a/)          ~~~~ry
(V)
/I  Fgl  Ltfc
"Marginally Satisfactory.



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose            Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. National          Rehabilitation of ag.            1989         Closing 31
Agricultural and     Research services                             December 1997.
Livestock Research
Project
Following operations
1. National          Phase II of extension            1996         Ongoing
Agricultural Extension  rehabilitation.
Project II
2. Agriculture Sector   Support to rationalizing      1993         Ongoing
Management Project   MAC, strengthening core
functions, sector expenditure
review.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Date planned   |      Date Actual/
|  |    Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                    March 1988
Preparation                                                   March-December 1988
Appraisal                                                     April 15, 1988
Negotiations                               November 1988      November 28, 1988
Board presentation                         February 1989      March 21, 1989
Signing                                    6 March 1989       May 8, 1989
Effectiveness                              May-June 1989      July 6, 1989
Midterm Review                             May-June 1992      June 1993
Project completion                         31 March 1997      March31, 1997
Loan closing                               31 March 1997      March 31, 1997



-17-
Table 4: IDA Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY
89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96    97
Appraisal estimate           3.0   5.7   8.5   11.7  14.1   16.0  17.6  18.4
Actual                       0.0   2.1   4.9   6.6   9.0  12.0  14.5  18.2  19.3
Actual as % of estimate      0%   36%   57%   57%   64%   75%   83%   99%
Date of final disbursement  July 31, 1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I.  Key implementation
indicators in SAR/           Estimated targets1/         Actual (% achievement)
President's Report
1.  Farmers covered by
extension program                  2.8m                       2.14m (75%)
2.  Fanners contact groups             237,996                    92,262 (38%)
(regularly contacted)
3.  Adoption of crop                    85%                          67%
recommendations
4.  Adoption of livestock               65%                          43%
recommendations
5.  Monthly training sessions           4,944                        77%
6.  Bi-monthly workshops                 480                         65%
7.  Adoption plots                     221,320                   140,909 (64%)
8.  Supervision Div/Dis/         32,268/4,404/900/434          54%/42%/50%34%
Region/HQ trips
1/ Targets based on best farmers performance and fixed by MOA during implementation.



- 18 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key operating indicators
in SAR/President's Report         Estimated                     Actual
Not Applicable               Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study           at appraisal/redefined       Status           Impact of study
1. Needs Assessment   Not defined at appraisal   Complete         Input to NAEP II
on Extension                                                       design
Communication
(Tanzania Food and
Nutrition Centre)
2. Training Needs    Not defined at appraisal   Complete          Input to NAEP 11
Assessment (Dr Ann                                                 design
Stroud, Dr S Lugeye)
3. Benchmark survey   Not defined at appraisal   --               Input to NAEP II
for NAEP II (Dr A                                                 design
Temu, Sokoine
University)
4. An assessment of    Not defined at appraisal                   Input to NAEP II
NALERP by                                                          dsg
Beneficiaries (Dr N
Molel, Sokoine
University)



- 19-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                          (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign       Total
Costs    costs               Costs!'  Costs../
Item
1.  Extension Organization     6.0     15.8       21.8       -        -        21.6
and Management
2.    Staff  and  Farmers      3.6      2.6         6.2       -       -         4.9
Training
3. Technical Assistance        -        2.4         2.4       -       -         2.1
TOTAL                         9.6     20.8        30.4       -       -        28.6_/
a/ Detailed distribution between local and foreign cost figure not available.
b/ Actual cost is below appraisal estimate because of shortage in counterpart funding and reduction in
Govermnent's share of operating costs.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign     Total       Local       Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs                 costs al     costs a/
Source
IDA                            4.4      14.0       18.4           -           -        19.3_
African Development Fund       2.0       6.8        8.8           -           -         8.5
Domestic contribution          3.2        -         3.2           -           -        0.8
TOTAL                          9.6      20.8       30.4           -           -       28.6
a/ Detailed distribution between local and foreign cost figure not available.
b/ Actual disbursements exceeded appraisal estimates due to depreciation of the US$ against the SDR.



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return for the project was calculated at appraisal. The economic benefits that
were to result were in the form of additional production from farmers adopting improved
technology. The SAR estimated that incremental production of 1,800 tons of paddy, 99,000 tons of
maize, 3,000 tons of cashew and 31,000 tons of seed cotton would be produced as a direct result of
the project, which would relate to an economic benefit of US $30 million in 1988/89 real terms. As
mentioned in the main text, an analysis of national yield data for the major smallholder crops
indicates that yields for maize, millet and cassava are 3% to 4% above pre-project levels, yields for
sorghum and beans are equal to, and yields for with coffee and rice about 15% below pre-project
levels. The main exception is cashew where yields for 1995/97 are up over 40% on 1987/98 levels.
Overall national production of millet and sorghum is over 20% higher than before NALERP, rice
3% higher, but production of coffee and maize has declined by 10%, cassava 14% and beans 25%.
Cashew production has risen from 18,000 tons to 82,000 tons over the project period and whilst
extension had a part to play in this increased production, the liberalization of marketing and the
affordability and availability of the chemicals to contain powdery mildew disease had probably a
greater effect..
There is no evidence that the potential yield improvements that could have been obtained through
adopting new technology have been translated into national figures. No robust conclusions on the
economic benefits of the project in terms of incremental production can be drawn.



-21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original  Revised
Covenant Present fulfilment  fulfil-             Description of
Agreement  Section   type    status     date      ment                 covenant                      Comments
date
DCA        3.01 (b)    05       C        NA               The borrower shall cause the        With an exception of time
implementation of the project in    loss in the initial period
accordance with the program in Schedule resulting in late (delayed)
4                                   commence-ment by one
year, implementation has
progressed as scheduled.
Complied with.
DCA        3.03        05       C        NA               The borrower shall establish and maintain With an exception of.time
an Extension Unit headed by Assistant   loss in the initial period
Commissioner for Extension Services    resulting in late (delayed)
commence-ment by one
year, complied with.
DCA        3.04        05       CP       NA               The Borrower shall (a) until September  (a) and (b) complied with;
30 1989 maintain its present        (c) not complied with.
establishment for the Extension Service,  Partial compliance
(b) by September 30, 1989, furnish to the
Association the revised establishment for
the Extension Service in accordance with
MALD's new structure, and (c) thereafter
maintain the establishment at that level,
with the recruitment of extension staff
from fresh diploma/certificate holders
being offset by attrition.
DCA        3.05        05       NC'      NA               The Borrower shall annually increase the  Not complied with.
budgetary allocations for agricultural and
livestock extension over the levels
provided in 1987/88 fiscal year, to cover
annual costs as agreed in the annual work
plan.
DCA        4.01(b)     05       C        NA               Furnish Audit report within 9 months    In compliance.
after the financial year end.
DCA        4.01(c)    01        C        NA               Maintain satisfactory records of SOE.    In compliance.
Separate audit for Special Account and
for expenditures on the basis of SOEs.
Status: C  = Complies with.
CD = Complied with after delay.                               NC = Not complied with.
CP = Complied with partially.                                 NA = Not available.



- 22 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                Revised              Actual 1/
project cycle                                                                _       l
Weeks       US$        Weeks       US$      Weeks      US$
Preparation to                      NA                     NA         28.9     71.9
Appraisal                                                                           l
Appraisal                           NA                     NA         22.4     56.4
Negotiations through                NA                     NA          4.3     11.4
Board approval
Supervision                         NA                     NA       235.1    543.6
Completion                                                             8.6     35.8
TOTAL                                                              299.3    719.1
1/ Including travel costs (direct costs).
NA = Not available--not recorded in the FACT system.



- 23 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                 Specialized    Implemen    Develop-
Stage of    Month!    Of        Days in      Staff skills    -tation      ment        Types of
project cycle   year   Persons    field      Represented a!     status    objectives b/  Problems c/
Through
appraisal              .
Appraisal
through Board
approval
Supervision     Sep-89      2         8      Ext                  NR          NR           EF
66       Feb-90      2         10      Ext, Serv             S           S         Mktg, Cr
44       May-91      4         14      Ext, Ser, Coops,      S           S        Staff, M&E
Train
C4       Dec-91      2         14      Ext, Ser              S           S         Staff, Fin
MTR             Jun-93      2         10     Ext, Serv             S           S           Fin
Supervision    Nov-93       5         5      Ext, Ser, Fin, Proc   S           S           Fin
Oct-95      2         18     Ser                   S           S           Fin
Mar-96      2         17     Ser, Ext              S           S           Fin
Sep-96     2          5      Ser, Ext              S           S           Fin
Dec-96      3         14     Ser, Ext              S           S           Fin
Feb-97      2         15     Ser, Ext              S           S           Fin
Completion5/    Oct-97      2        14      Econ, Ext        I          I
Abbreviations
a/                                                     c/
Ser - Agricultural Services Specialist                 EF - Conditions for Effectiveness and Implementation
Ext - Agricultural Extension Specialist                start-up
Coops - Cooperatives Specialist                        Mktg - Marketing
Train - Training Specialist                            Cr - Credit
Proc - Procurement Specialist                          Staff- Staffing of the extension service
Econ - Economist                                       Fin - Financial Management, counterpart funds.
b/
S - Satisfactory
5' Undertaken by FAO/CP.



APPENDIX 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1994-TZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE



AIDE MEMOIRE
CONTENTS
Project Objectives and Components ...........................                                                              25
Implementation Timing ...........................                                                                          26
Achievement of Objectives ...........................                                                                      26
Implementation Experience and Results ...........................                                                          27
Financial and Economic Aspects ...........................                                                                 32
Bank Performance ...........................                                                                               33
Borrower Performance ...........................                                                                           34
Major Factors Affecting Project ...........................                                                                34
Future Operations ...........................                                                                              34
Sustainability ...........................                                                                                 35



FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
OF THE UNITED NATIONS
Investment Centre Division
TANZANIA: National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project
(NALERP - IDA Credit 1994-TA; ADF Loan LVS/88/22)
Implementation Completion Report - Aide-memoire
Introduction
1.    A missionl from the FAO Investment Centre visited Tanzania from 3 to 17 October, 1997 to
prepare the Implementation Completion Report for the National Agricultural and Livestock Extension
Rehabilitation Project (NALERP) under the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. The mission worked
closely with officials from the Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives (MAC), particularly the
Department of Extension Services, and had discussions with the Department of Research and Training
within MAC. The mission visited two regions of Tanzania to assess the impact of the project in areas of
different agricultural potential and fanning systems. The Mission held discussions with Regional and
District Agriculture and Livestock Development Officers, Regional Extension Officers, and visited farmers,
farmer groups, District, Divisional and Village Extension Officers in Morogoro and Kilombero Districts in
Morogoro Region and Magu District in Mwanza Region. The mission also visited the Katrin Research
Centre and Ukiriguru Research Institute.
2.     This aide-memoire was discussed at a wrap-up meeting, chaired by the Commissioner of
Agriculture and Livestock Development which was attended by staff of the Ministry who were involved in
the implementation of the project.
3.     The mission would like to record its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance shown by all
officers and staff of the Govemment with whom the mission has been working.
Project Objectives and Components
4.     The objective of the project was to enable the Govemment of Tanzania to provide the farming
community with adequate extension messages to enhance agricultural production, productivity and rural
incomes. The project represented the first phase, regarded as the rehabilitation phase, of a long-term process
to establish an efficient, cost-effective and sustainable extension service. The project was to focus on a
gradual but steady and well-planned merging of crop and livestock extension services into a
multidisciplinary system, the strengthening of extension management, organization, coordination and
supervision of activities, and the upgrading and/or provision of necessary human resources, physical
infrastructure and logistic support.
'Tim Lamrock (Economist/Mission Leader - TCIR) and Brian Scoullar, (Extension Specialist - Consultant)
25



5.    This was to be achieved through:
(i)   the establishment of a streamlined, adequately staffed organization and management
structure;
(ii)   the introduction of an extension system based on the Training and Visit (T & V)
methodology, together with necessary training and supervision of activities; and
(iii)   strengthening of the Ministry's planning and implementation capacity, and assisting in the
preparation of a second phase project, through both short and medium-term technical
assistance.
6.     At the wrap.-up meeting, the Govemment viewed the project's objectives as the rehabilitation of the
extension service in order to set a base for a systematic extension delivery mechanism.
7.    The Mission considers that the objectives were appropriate but were not clearly stated in the SAR,
particularly as to the level of achievement that NALERP was to have reached, at project completion,
towards the longer-term goal of establishing an efficient, cost-effective and sustainable extension service.
Implementation Timing
8.    The credit ifor SDR 13.7 million (US$ 18.4 million equivalent) was signed in May, 1989 and
became effective in July, 1989. The project was co-financed by the African Development Fund (ADF loan
LVS/88/22) which was responsible for the financing of the construction or upgrading of housing for
Division staff, the rehabilitation and provision of facilities in four training institutes and the overseas training
program.
9.     The IDA credit closed on schedule on 31 March, 1997 with the credit fully disbursed. The ADF
loan has not closed, and the remaining civil works under the project will be completed by March, 1998. At
closing of the ADF loan, it is expected that US$ 8.45 million of a total of US$ 8.8 million will be disbursed.
Achievement of Objectives
10.    The project has satisfactorily achieved its development objective of rehabilitating the extension
services provided to farmers and livestock keepers. The project re-invigorated the field, district and region
extension staff who previously had no meaningful work program and only limited financial and logistic
resources to carry out their work. The project has had some impact on agricultural production, productivity
and rural incomes (but see para 0).
11.   The project suffered in the second half of its life, due to mainly macro-economic conditions, from
decreasing funds for regular activities, decreasing numbers of front-line staff, and an inability of the
extension service to diagnose problems and change the messages in response to farmers needs and
circumstances. Project activities are now being supported by National Agricultural Extension Project Phase
II (NAEP II) which was effective in October, 1996.
26



Implementation Experience and Results
General
12.   In general, the implementation of the project has been satisfactory. After a delay at the outset of the
project which effectively put the implementation schedule back by one year, implementation has proceeded
as scheduled. At the time of termination, the project operated in 16 of the 20 mainland Regions having been
included in the following order.
1989: Tabora, Singida, Dodoma
1990: Kilimanjaro, Kagera, Arusha
1991: Shinyanga, Mwanza, Mara
1992: Mtwara, Morogoro, Lindi
1993: Kigoma
1994: Tanga, Dar es Salaam, Coast
13.   The four Southern Highlands regions of Ruvuma, Rukwa, Mbeya and Iringa are served by the
Southern Highlands Extension and Rural Financial Services project. The project, funded by IFAD and GOT,
also follows the T&V approach with the addition of a credit facility for farmers.
14.   At the height of the project 3,319 VEOs were responsible for 3,680 villages, 2,145,000 farm
families (assuming 583 farm fanilies per village) and 646 farm families per VEO against project targets of
4,113 VEOs, 4,800 villages and 2,800,000 farm families at a ratio of 681 farm families per VEO.
15.   The project contributed to coordination of other donor activities in extension, but there was limited
adoption of the strict T&V methodology in other projects. Other projects in extension implemented outside
the MAC did not unify their approach to that of NALERP, nor did they coordinate their programmes.
16.   The second phase of Bank support to extension, NAEP II, was prepared and appraised during the
course of NALERP.
Institutional change
17.   The Ministry has amalgamated the Departments of Agriculture and Livestock under a
Commissioner who reports to the Principal Secretary. Extension is under an Assistant Commissioner (AC)
who is supported technically by ACs for Plant Protection, Livestock Development, Crop Development and
Irrigation. At the regional level, unification was achieved through a Regional Agricultural and Livestock
Development Officer (RALDO) supported by specialists and a Regional Extension Officer (REO), a
structure which is repeated at the district level. At the divisional (ie subdistrict) level an Extension Officer,
usually holding a Diploma, supervises 8 - 10 Village Extension Officers (VEOs).
18.   The institutional changes associated with unification, in termns of structure, management and
administration have been successfully implemented and are perceived as being a positive development at all
levels in the organization. At the front-line, although retrained, a significant number of VEOs, particularly
those who formerly were Livestock Extension Officers, preferred their previous area of specialization. This
is not surprising given a training period of only five months and a natural tendency to feel more confident in
27



the discipline in which one was first trained and has the longest experience.
Management and Supervision
19.   Implementing the T&V system established a strong management system and management ethic
within the Extension service. Regular visit schedules to contact farmers and groups are maintained and
monitored through reporting procedures and field visits. Supervision at all levels however was adversely
affected by lack of operational funds, and supervision by headquarters, regional, district and divisional staff
were 34%, 50%, 42% and 54% respectively of target levels.
Mid-term Review
20.   The Mid-Term Review, seen by management as an opportunity to take stock of progress and
problems, was preceded by discussions and interviews with extension staff, trainers, farmers, researchers,
NGOs and others in 8 of the 13 regions of the project. The results of the survey guided discussion at the
MTR and enabled informed decisions to be taken on a wide range of issues including visit schedules,
supervision, adoption plots, message content and the use of groups as an alternative to individuals as contact
points for extension messages. These examples demonstrate an increased managerial capacity of MAC to
plan, implement and supervise a national extension programme, and this increased capacity is attributable to
the project.
Training Program
21.   Generalist front-line officers have been created by re-training through courses of five months
duration as opposed to ten months as anticipated at appraisal. At project initiation, approximately 40% of
front-line staff were untrained Field Assistants. No training was provided at this level and most of the Field
Assistants have been retrenched.
22.   The VEO retraining program was slow up to the time of the mid-term review at which time only
18% of the target had been reached. The situation improved after MTR and certificate-level retraining was
completed by June, 1997. The training of trainers program was 54% completed. Other higher-level, overseas
training and overseas study tours were carried out satisfactorily.
Civil Works
23.   The civil works component for DivEO housing, financed by ADB, was not satisfactorily
implemented. The initial assumption that village labour would be volunteered to assist in the construction of
300 DivEO houses did not eventuate. A reduced building program was then planned (141 houses) with
higher unit costs, but this then fell behind due to delays and failure of contractors to perform as required. At
the time of closing of the IDA credit, a total of 67 houses had been completed but contracts for the
remaining houses is in force and construction is underway. The DivEO housing program has been
incorporated into NAEP II. The rehabilitation of the Training Institutes was satisfactorily completed.
Technical Assistance
24.   The long-term technical assistance team to support project implementation started work during
1990, and finished in 1992 with the exception of the Financial Advisor who remained throughout the
28



duration of the project. The experiences of the technical assistance financed by the project were mixed. In
general, the long-term consultants in Agricultural Extension Methodology, Finance and Procurement proved
to be satisfactory, but the Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist's terms of reference were not completed at
the end the assignment. This had important implications on the performance of the Monitoring and
Evaluation component of the project. The short-term consultancies proved to be effective with the exception
of the consultancy on cotton research which did not result in developing appropriate recommendations for
farmers.
Monitoring and Evaluation
25.   Implementation of this component was negatively affected by the consultant not completing the task
of developing and implementing systems for M & E of project activities and impact. The SAR specified that
baseline surveys would be undertaken in the first and second years of the project and impact evaluations of
T&V in the regions at the commencement of years two and three. These surveys were not undertaken. The
Overall Evaluation System specified in the SAR was not installed. Although introduced only in September
1994, quantitative goals are now established prior to the commencement of the growing season.
Research - Extension Collaboration
26.   Formal links between Research and Extension were built into the project design. These included the
posts of Research-Extension Liaison Officers (RELOs), pre-season workshops, bi-monthly workshops for
the training of SMSs and two annual workshops to be held at zonal research stations. The Farming Systems
Research Programme was expected to provide additional opportunities for collaboration within the context
of establishing and responding to priority needs of rural communities and RELOs were expected to be
seconded to the FSR team to facilitate this work.
27.   Limited improvements in working relationships were achieved during the project period. RELOs
were not appointed as management decided that the REO could perform this task. No pre-season workshops
were held. At best, the seasonal impact points selected by extension officers were sent to the zonal research
station for their comments. The monthly workshops, which were changed to bi-monthly early in project
implementation, did provide a forum for effective interaction between extension and research. With
NALERP funds, researchers generally attended as resource persons. However, research priorities were not
reviewed at these workshops, but this role has now been taken over by Zonal Committee Meetings which set
zonal research priorities.
28.   At the MTR the FSR programme was also judged as being unsuccessful in establishing closer
relationships. Some improvements however have occurred since 1993. The FSR programme has mapped
sub-zones and increased its use of PRA approaches in identifying problems. Inevitably, the subsequent
research plots are scattered and difficult and expensive to establish and monitor. Some research stations have
entered into formnal agreements with Extension for assistance to implement the research programme. TORs
have been agreed and time allocated in Extension workplans for collaboration at district and field levels.
These arrangements are currently rated as useful by both Research and Extension staff in the zone in which
it was observed by the mission.
29.   Initiatives were taken by the Ministry to improve Research-Extension collaboration. The CALD and
the CRT in 1992 agreed to provide resources to improve linkages in defined areas. The 1992 policy
statement and implementation guidelines addressed the issue, a Zonal Technical Committees have been
29



formed, Extension is represented at the national and zonal levels of research committees and donor
coordinating committees have been formed in some regions to remove duplication in extension and research
activities. These initiatives however appear to have been of limited benefit. The most likely strategy for
improving collaboration is a steadily increasing formalization of roles, responsibilities, funding
arrangements and lines of communication within the framework of FSR because this method involves close
collaboration with farming communities, by both research and extension systems.
Extension - Farmer Contact
30.    For at least half of the project duration, VEOs measured contact by counting the number of farmers
who attended each extension activity; ie demonstrations on the fields of Contact Farmers, with Contact
Groups and at field days. All farmers, including contact farmers, who attended each activity were counted as
a new contact, even though they may have participated previously, and therefore the figures represent more
a measure of contact frequency and not the number of farmers contacted. Moreover no adjustments were
made in the figures for more than one adult attending from one farm household. This methodological
problem was not raised at the MTR and no reference to it was seen in the supervision reports of the Bank
which were available to the mission.
31.    The Ministry became aware of this discrepancy and took steps to rectify it during the second half of
project implementation. The M&E Unit introduced a listing of farmers by name and by farm household as
the means of establishing the degree of farmer contact. For various reasons, acceptance of this method
within the Service was not complete by project termination.
32.   It is therefore difficult to arrive at a figure for extension contact with farm households in the project
area, but the figure of 2,140,000 probably overstates the actual numbers contacted.
Adoption
33.    The first attempt to evaluate impact was carried out in 1995 as part of the preparation for the
proposed second phase of support to Tanzania's Agricultural Extension System. Undertaken by a consultant
for the Ministry and implemented through the M&E Unit of NALERP, a "random sample" of 50 farmers
was taken in each of six districts. Most respondents (77.7%) reported that they were visited by the extension
agent every two weeks and half of the remainder also identified themselves as Contact Fanners. The
subsequent report of the Ministry indicated that the farmers were selected from villages in which a VEO was
residing. In 1995 approximately 30% of villages did not have a resident VEO. The survey therefore was an
analysis of the impact of the T&V system on awareness and adoption amongst Contact Farmers from
villages in which a VISO resided and not of the farming population as a whole in the six districts studied. As
a result,the Ministry report gives wider credence with respect to contact, awareness and adoption than is
justified.
34.   Field visits by the mission revealed that the study was not an isolated incidence of this error.
Discussion with Ministry staff revealed that adoption figures quoted were for farmers with whom the
Extension service had contact and not from the farming population as a whole. Visits by the mission to
villages which did not have a resident VEO gave an initial indication that extension- farner contact and
adoption was lower than in those where a VEO resided. Insufficient time was available however to test
further this initial impression.
30



Yields
35.   Yield measurements for adopters were taken from adoption plots. The plots were demonstrating a
package of recommendations and were monitored by the VEO during the growing season for their
demonstration effect. Under these circumstances it would be reasonable to assume a yield gap between
these plots and the fields of others who adopted. A survey based on a random sample of adopters which
excluded the adoption plot would have more accurately represented yield increases on the farms of those
farmers who had accepted extension messages.
Modifications to the Basic T& V during Project Implementation.
36.    The Ministry modified the Extension methodology in response to operational experience and
funding constraints. Within the first 12 months of project implementation, VEO training sessions were
reduced in frequency from fortnightly to monthly and SMS training from monthly to bimonthly. As a result,
more time was available for extension, costs were reduced, and there was no loss of staff competence in the
messages they were disseminating to farmers.
37.    The major change has been away from contact farmers established for points of regular contact with
VEOs, to VEOs working with groups, in many cases already established for other purposes. The pilot T&V
project established to test the effectiveness of this methodology targeted 6,500 groups covering about 50,000
families. These groups were based on the Ujamaa concept and were already established as part of an
administrative set-up, or for collective agricultural production or political purpose. NALERP then attempted
to set up contact farmer groups through the direct actions of VEOs. These new groups were often formed on
an incorrect perception of purpose - the members believed that they would obtain credit or inputs in addition
to extension. This was observed in 1991 and questions of sustainability of the contact farmer groups newly
set up for extension was questioned at that time. By the time of MTR, the emphasis was on working with
farmer groups that either existed already within the communities, or were established in harmony with
community practices.
Relevance and Feasibility of Extension Messages
38.    The messages delivered by the Extension service were predominantly technical, simple and showed
a response during the growing season in which they were applied. Given an ineffective Extension service
prior to project initiation, these messages were relevant early on in the project and generally were considered
useful, at least by those in close contact with extension staff. As demand was satisfied (or could not be
adopted through resource constraints) farmers' needs changed. In resource-poor areas farmers were
concerned with environmental degradation and a lack of capital. In resource-rich areas, farm families were
looking to intensify and diversify their farming enterprises. In both cases farmers' needs for new knowledge
and skills increased in complexity, cut across sectors and to some extent embraced a longer time horizon.
Generally, however, extension messages did not change, and therefore no longer were relevant.
31



Financial and Economic Aspects.
Project Costs
39.    Total costs of the project up to 31 March, 1997 were US$ 27.7 million and, including committed
costs of civil works to be financed by ADF of US$ 1.3 million, total costs will be US$28.6 million as
against an appraisal estimate of US$ 30.4 million. Savings in costs, particularly for vehicles, enabled the
project to expand into four additional regions within the budgeted costs and financing plan.
Table 1: Project Costs and Financing (US$ ,000)
Financina Sourcel    IDA    AUF    (;UI   lotal SAH Estimate
Component
Extension Organization and Management          13,580.0  7,130.0   855.0  21,565.0    22,109.0
Training                                        3,600.9  1,320.0        4,920.9    6,053J
Technical Assistance                            2.096.4                 2.096A     2.238.0
Total                                          19,2773  8,45011   855.0  28,5823    30,400.0
40.    Total recurrent costs were estimated at US$ 11.2 million. Actual recurrent costs of the project were
US$ 7 million. Investment costs were higher by $2.3 million than that anticipated at appraisal.
41.    The SAR identified a level of Government financing of the project equal to US$ 3.2 million,
representing its share of recurrent operating costs (33% of local costs). This represented approximately 10%
of total project costs. Goods and services, including vehicles and equipment procured under the project were
exempted from taxes and duties. Therefore the total Government contribution to financing the project
comprised the actual Treasury releases applied to counterpart funding of the project. This amounted to US$
855,000, or approximately 3% of total project costs. This was made up of $161,000 being the Government's
5% share of the recurrent costs over $3.05 million (SDR 2.2 million) up to US$ 6.3 million, and 100%
thereafter up to the final total of US$ 7 million (figures are approximate).
Counterpart Financing
42.    The Bank's supervision missions reported that, from 1994, inadequate funding of recurrent costs
from Government sources affected the project's operations particularly in relation to supervision at all levels.
The Ministry of Finance in July, 1994 requested the Bank to consider a reduction in the counterpart funds
required to be committed to the project on the basis of prevailing economic situation and tight budgetary
constraints. Whilst the request was for the Bank to finance 100% of recurrent operating costs, the Bank gave
its agreement to amend the Development Credit Agreement to finance 95% of incremental operating
expenses, as opposed to a sliding scale of 95%, 80% and 55%.
43.    Above the limit of IDA financing of recurrent costs (US$ 6.3 million) the costs were borne totally
by Government. Project activities were scaled according to expected availability of funds from Government.
As mentioned above, total recurrent costs were some $4 million short of that anticipated at appraisal. This
had an impact on the scale and frequency of project activities.
32



44.   A review of the statement of Government counterpart funds released to the project indicates that in
March, 1994, a Treasury release of TSh 176 million was effected which brought the Government's total
counterpart funds for that year to TSh 198 million (US$ 438,700 equivalent). Treasury releases in the
remaining stages of the project amounted to TSh 189 million (US$ 326,000 equivalent). This amount was
used to pre-finance activities under NALERP. When the project closed on 31 March, 1997, a substantial
portion of these releases for counterpart funds remained unutilized and an amount of TSh 290 million (US$
480,000 equivalent) was transferred to NAEP II accounts as Government pre-financing of NAEP II.
Benefits
45.   The ultimate objective of the project was enhanced agricultural production, productivity and rural
incomes. Knowledge is but one input and variable in agricultural production. The mission feels that it would
be unreliable to draw national or regional conclusions on project benefits based on production increases as it
is difficult to identify benefits that derive from extension alone.
46.   The absence of baseline studies makes it even more difficult to gauge the overall impact. There is
clear evidence from the monitoring of results from adoption plots/units compared with non-adopters that,
although the quantum may be overstated, (as discussed in para 35) significant increases in productivity have
been achieved for adopters. This would translate into overall increases in production and incomes depending
on the scale of operations, continuation of improved practices and the relationships between revenues and
input costs. The extent to which this is the case cannot be determined from available data.
Bank Performance
Project Design
47.   The pilot T&V project gave an insight into problems that later were to appear again during
NALERP. The SAR identified the problems as: (i) lack of funds thereby reducing the frequency of regular
training sessions and workshops; (ii) ineffective contacts between research, extension and farmers; (iii)
inadequate supervision of activities. As mentioned above, the pilot addressed already-established farmer
groups, and not groups established by VEOs. The SAR admits that it was too early to evaluate the pilot
performance and impact, but yet concluded (based mainly on results from other countries) that T&V was the
correct approach as it was an efficient management tool, developed stronger and more efficient linkages
with the research community, and induced research to develop farmer oriented programs.
48.   The mission feels that the design process should have included a comprehensive evaluation of the
pilot phase.
Supervision
49.   Bank supervision missions were frequent, with staff from the Resident Mission and the Nairobi
Mission often participating. Generally supervision was satisfactory, but the Bank staff should have
recognized the imprecision in the method of recording of farmer contacts. This overstated the coverage of
the extension service which was being monitored as a key performance indicator. There also should have
been closer supervision of the M&E activities under the project.
33



Borrower Performance.
50.   Generally, the performance of the Borrower has been satisfactory. The main covenants relating to
timely implementation of the project were complied with although there was a delay at the outset. Legal
covenants monitored by the Bank's supervision staff have been complied with. Accounting and reporting
have been carried to a satisfactory standard through the Technical Assistance to the Department financed by
the credit. The Government has also prepared its contribution to the ICR.
51.   However, two covenants not monitored by the Bank in the Development Credit Agreement are
worthy of mention. Section 3.04 required the Government to maintain the establishment of the extension
service at the level agreed with the Bank as at September 1989, with staff leaving being replaced with
diploma/certificate holders. The field staffing levels under T&V have a significant impact at the level of
outreach achievable and, as mentioned above, substantial numbers of staff have been retrenched under the
rationalization of MAC. Therefore, strictly speaking, this covenant has not been complied with. Indeed it
was not possible for the Government to comply, given the impact of later Bank-supported adjustment
operations on staffing levels within the public service.
52.   There was also a covenant, Section 3.05, that concerned budgetary allocations to extension. The
Government was to annually increase budgetary allocations over the level provided in 1987/88 fiscal year to
cover annual costs as agreed in the annual work plan. This was not complied with (see discussion below).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
53.   The major factors affecting the project were:
X     Retrenchment of front-line staff,
X     (tGradual reduction of contact activity over time;
X     Limits on project funds;
X     Poor integration of agricultural and livestock skills at field level through cross-training;
*     New challenges, beyond technical matters, for which extension staff were fully prepared.
Future Operations
54.   A review of NALERP was undertaken in 1995 as part of the preparation for NAEP II which then
addressed further modifications to the T&V approach that would finally be part of the NAEP II design.
These were to (i) address issues in financial sustainability through collaboration with NGOs, and through the
transfer of responsibility for commodity-focused farming systems to private agro-industries; (ii) farmer
participation in the generation and dissemination of technology; and (iii) use of communication technology
in extension. In addition, the research programs now being undertaken have incorporated farming systems
research with environmental and production sustainability as key objectives.
55.   The operations of NALERP have been taken over by NAEP 11, which will follow the T&V
approach but will continue with the emphasis on group-based contact points. NAEP II is operational in the
same 16 regions as NALERP and the IFAD Southern Highlands project in the remaining four regions of
mainland Tanzania is expected to be extended and adopt similar alterations in emphasis.
34



Sustainability
56.    The SAR considered sustainability of the project from two viewpoints - institutional and financial.
57.    Institutional sustainability would depend on total commitment from all involved and a strong
leadership within MAC. The mission considers that the project has achieved the anticipated management
strength.
58.    Financial sustainability was expected to be achieved through a combination of (i) cost reductions
due to the merger of agriculture and livestock extension, and the unification of extension programs financed
by different donors; and (ii) an expected 4% growth in real terms in budget allocations to extension. The
SAR estimated that the Ministry "would easily be in a position to sustain activities under the project". The
financing of the project was designed to place more demands on resources from within Government over the
course of the project to ensure that the Government financed the recurrent costs of the project in full in its
eighth year2.
59.    The following table gives the Government Budget allocations to MAC. The figures indicate that the
budget for agriculture increased until 1992 in real terms and as a percentage of Agricultural GDP over 1988
levels. It since has fallen to below 1988 levels in real terms and from 1.2% to 0.7% of Agricultural GDP.
Table 2: Government Budget Allocations to Ministry of Agriculture
Year   Current % of Agrcultural   Constant 1987
ending June TSh million      GDP          TSh million
1988    2,429           1.2%            2,429
1989    2,469          0.8%             1,678
1990    4,021           1.1%            2,425
1991    5,808           1.3%            3,010
1992    6,289           1.1%            2,855
1993    7,402           1.0%            2,765
1994    7,865          0.8%             2,310
1995    8,337          0.7%             2,053
1996    10,952         0.7%             2,164
60.    The SAR recognized the danger of eroding budget allocations that would undermine the main
project objectives of establishing a technically viable and financially sound extension system. The activities
under NALERP will now be sustained under NAEP II which is also designed to increase Government
commitment to extension by requiring increasing budget allocations.
Follow-up
2Assurances to this effect were made by Government at credit negotiations.
35



61.    On return to Rome, the mission will prepare a draft ICR to be forwarded to IDA by mid-November,
1997. This will include further analysis, including impact and cost-effectiveness of the Project and details of
the lessons learned.
Dar es Salaam
17th October, 1997
36



APPENDIX 2
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1994-TZ)
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANLA
I MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE & COOPERATIVES
NAT1ONAL AGRICULTURAL & LIVESTOCK
EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJEICT
j <~~~~~~.' NAL_EItI..1' 
IMPLEIVMENTATION COMPFLETIN' REPORT
1 (       ,k'   :                                         l' /
,:0 .  



TABLE OF CONTENTS:
1.0  Introduction        ............................
-   >       2.0   Objectives and Summary of Major achievement  1........
3.0   Organization and Managernent .................................
3.1   Procurement      .........................................  10
3.2   Performance of Technical Assistance   ...           1 1
3.3   Civil works    ......................... .............  14
4.0   Extension Methodology and Technology ..................  15
4.1   T&V Field Implementation   . .-                     15
4.2 The mid-term Review    .           .17
-4.3 T&V Tools and Pillars    ..18
4.4 NALERP Final Review              .        .22
5.0   Staff and Farmers Training .-                       24
6.0   Research Extension Farmers/Linkage    ...1
6.1   Field Implementation and MTR findings               3-1
6.2  Indigenous Technical knowledue                       32
6.3   Adoption/Observation Plots         . . .32
6.4   Development of Impact Points    . . .33
e.5   Field Days. Tours and Agricultural Shows .3
6.6  Professional Societies      .     .     .34
6.7   NALERP Completion Review       . . .34
7.0   Coordination of Extension Oriented Activities. .
8.0   Mionitoring & Evaluation.                           3(3
9.0 Beneficiaries ....38
Table I:    Key Performance Indicators.                    8
Tables:
Table 2:    Procurement status as on March. 1997     13
Table 3:    Status of Civil works at NALERP completion   14
Annexes:
Annex I .43
Annex 1..                                           4
Annex Ill .....5.. , , , ......  45



1.0.  Introduictioni
Agricultural extension has undergo nemany changes overithe years since
indeperndence. The most important change took place in 1972 when the
development oriented functions of the government including extension
were transfered to regional administrations.
In 1983 the Ministry of Agriculture was re-centralized in the hope that its
functions would be discharged more efficiently.   However, actual
implementation of extension services was below expectations. The
extension services were deficient aid faced the following major
_..   .problemnslweaknesses.  , ,_     . . _,         -
*  nadequate and fragmented organizational arrangement (e.g. crop and
livestock divisions had parallel extension services);
* Weak linkages with other knowledge systerns and inputs suppliers;
* Lack of logistical support (e.g. shortage of transport, training, working
gear. funds etc); and
 Low staff motivation due to poor personnel utilization. weak
supervision, renumeration, poor housing, inadequate re-training etc.).
From  the above mentioned problems, the government through the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) designed an intervention to address themn.
This was done through the National Agricultural Extension and Livestock
Rehabilitation Project (NALERP) funded jointly by the World Bank (IDA),
the African Development Bank (ADS) and the Government of Tanzania
(GOT). The project started in 1987/88 fiscal year on a pilot basis in five
dis.ricts of Dodoma and Kondoa (Dodoma region), Sincida (Singida
recion), Nzega  and  Urambo  (Tabora  region).   The pre!ilmitnary
experiences in the pilot phase under Training and visit (T & V) extension
approach, led to the full implementation of an eight year project in the 16
regions of mainland Tanzania (1989 - 1996).
2.0.  Objectives and Summary of Major Achievemnents
The main objective of the project was to enable the government provide
improved extension services to small holder farmers for incrpasing their
productivity and incomes in a sustainablp and cost effective manner.
0



This broad objective was to be acihieved thirouugl:
*     Strengthening of extension maniagerment anid organizatioxn.
Focusinig on a steady anc:d well plainriedi niiergirly of crop an(d
livestock extension services witlh a Imulltidiscipliliary systei i.
Upgrading anid/or provision of essential resources in terinis of
physical infrastructure and logistical suLpJol t.
Adequate and relevant traininlg to staff and farmers.
. *   Effective linkage with otlher in1stitutiotns suchi as reseaich, F`Si' etc.
.Project Acihievemilenits (1989 - 1990)
Ilie phase I achieved alimost all of its objectives incIudin1g establisliriient
of a unified extensiun service and a strong extensioni rtianageriierit
capacity supported with logistics and pihysical infrastructure.  Otlher
achiieveinents included:
* Increased coverage
The project coverage plani was 12 reuions uf Mainlanid Tanzania L)ult in
the course of implemTenitationi four more regionis were added followilng the
iniiproved implemietationi capacity and adecluate resources.
TVhe regions involved in the project were:-
1909 - 1 996 Tabora, Sinigida and Dodorna
1990 - 199G Kilimanjaro, Kagera anrd Aruslia
1991 - 1996 Shinyanga, Mwanza and Mara
1992 - 1996 Mtwara, Morogoro, Liridi
1993 - 1996 Kigoina
1994 - 1996 Tanga, Dar es Salaain and Coast
The four Southerni Highland regions of Ruvunia, Rukwa, Mbeya and
Iringa are served by a similar project called Southern 1-lighlanids Extelisioll
and Rural Financial Services Project (SHEiRFSP). This' project is fuLided
by the International Fund for Agricultural Developinent (IFAD) and (GOT).
It was started in 1993 and is schieduled to end in 1999.
2



Reduced VEO Farmer ratio
Prior to the initiation of NALERP, the VEO: farmers ratio was 1 to 800 -
1000. With NALERP the ratio was narrowed to 1 VEO serving an
average of 452 farmers at the time of Mid-Term Review (MTR). This
situation was brought about by the increased nuinber of extension agelits
recruited in the extension service and also the result of utilizing one and
thie same VEO for both crop and livestock enterprises. However, the ratio
was high at the titne of NALERP completion i.e. 1:844.  Tile nuimber of
farnieus and villages without VEOs is likely to increase due to natural
atli itiun, retrenchinent and by the fact that recruitment of VEOs ceased
,Rii ice 19'93.
lincreased operational efficiency antd f[c.rtiers' coverage.
With NALERP, it was easier-for MOA to unify the crol) and livestock
mtfiinsion servi(;e.   lie ullificatioll aspect has reduced costs by reducing
.lr.'ipli:aalim of efflots anld use of scm ce resouices. The managetileeit and
vrUu iiZAtiO011E s)ltrLKAlure imnpaited discipline ailiolig the extensioti staff at
all lervels.  The above situation miade about 2.14 millionl farr ers
equivalent to 70 percent of the target to be regularly contacted by
e.Aemrsion staff. -i'le farners have appreciated the merger prt ocrss anid
have an impact to thern as milost of thiein practice inixed fariniilg
Moreover, the project provided logistics etiuipimient and housinig to its
staff. Amilong the facilities provided include the veihicles, exterisioun kits
and soine houses for divisional extension staff (see Table 2).  TIhis
afforded the staff to reach rnore farnmers easily and also afforded regular
supervision at all levels.
. Increased techniical skills aimorig extensionl staff
The project enabled regular traininig to be condiucted for all fronitlille
extension staff (Montilly Training Sessions -MTSs), while those at district
level were trained once every two molnithis (Bi-mnonthly- worksilops -
BMWs). At NALERP completion, a total of 3164 MTs and 69 BMWs liad
been conducted. The achievemilent is equivalent to 81 anid 72 percent
respectively. The regular training helped to upgrade the skills of the staff
in order for them  to keep abreast with current technical packages
developed by research.   Also, special courses and studies were
undertaken inside and outside the country. Thie extension staff have
acknowledged that their credibility and confidenice has been enhaniced as
the result of the training and supervision received.



*    Linkages witli other Agricultural knowledge systems.
During NALERP implemilenitation, some linkage mechanisms between
research and extension took place in the form of joint training sessions,
fniruming systems research, on farm trials, professional group meetings
and preparationi research hand-outs to extension.
The areas of joint field trips and appointmtlent of Research Extension
Liason Orficers were not implemented as planned nor have other means
of institutional co-ordination been substituted. Among the constraints that
hindered the creation of the strong links between research and extension
were the structure and funding priorities of MOA. There was some joint
decision making by. research and extension in setting the research
agenda. Where good coordination was achieved, much progress in the
dissemination of extension advice was realised
. Increase in adoption of improved technical recoinmendationis by
farmers
From the impact assessmernt study 'carried out recently, it was revealed
that farmers' awareness of improved technology increased by about 92%
in the operational area as a result of increased regular contact with
extension staff.  The basic husbandry recommendations to major
enterprises have been adopted. About 67% and 43% of the farners
contacted adopted improved technologies on crop arid livestock
enterprises respectively.
Moreover, there have been increases in yields of sorne crops and
livestock products for adopters as compared to non-adopters, although
this cannot be attributed to extension service alone.
The achievements stated above can be surrminarized as shown in table 1.
Mid-Term Review Iniitiatives
The Mid-term Review (MTR) was carried out imainily by-the local expeerts in
1993, the results of the study made the Government (MAC) to introduce
various initiatives which improved the irnplementation of the service and
thus its performance. Among the introduced initiatives are:
To elevate extension service to a full department so as to reflect the core
functions of MAC i.e. research and extension. Four more regions which
were previously not earmarked to be covered by the project were
incorporated. These included Kigoma, Coast, DSM and Tanga. The
objective was to enable the farming cominunity in those regions benefit
4



from accomplishments of the extension service. Kigoma region joined the
project in 1993 while Tanga, DSM and Coast regions were incorporated in
the project in 1994. At NALERP completion, all regions of Tanzania
mainland were being served by one and cornmon extension program.
Extension is- one of the core functions of MAC. The on-going structural
changes will ensure that extension is placed in a high rank in the MAC
organizational structure.
* Under qualified SMSs were to be trained or removed from their posts.
All untrainable VEOs were to be retrenched. With the continued
ratiorialization exercise of MAC, extension being a core function is
strengthened with key professional manpower redeployment to the
section.  Moreover, about 902 untrainable VEOs were already
retrenched at NALERP completion as one of the measures to
strengthen extension service. The MAC also re-defined the requisite
qualifications for SMSs at different levels. Re-positioning of the staff
was going on at NALERP cornpletion time.
* There was a need of developing a Metlhodology Training Maniual and
update the Tecllhnology Manual so that the later meets area specific
needs. At NALERP completion, this activity was not implemilented. Its
imnplementation is now planned to be during NAEP II. i-However,
Training Needs Assessment was carried out. All VEOs were to
prepare individual extension programs for the villages they cover and
all such extension programs be supported by ways and ineans
(strategy) for their implementation by district and regional staff. At
NALERP completion, a number of VEOs succeeded to  prepare their
work programs as it was during the same period, the VEOs were
supposed to re-schedule their visiting timetables for formation and
working with farner groups.
* The visiting schedule of VEOs were to be flexible and the visiting
frequency was to take into account the type of enterprise, the season
and other factors. After MTR, VEOs schedules were flexible whereby
most VEOs made 3 to 4 visits in a day instead of 6 visits However,
more farmers were contacted throughi farmer groups approach. Also
VEOs visiting hours were chianged to match the working hours of
farmers i.e. between 6 am and 12.00pm.
* The target of VEO coverage was to be reviewed given that the nuinber
of VEOs was dropping down due to retrenchrnent, retiremenits and
natural attrition coupled with geographical difficulties. Regions were
advised wherever feasible to increase the VEOs working area by
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



adJding nearby villages to their working areas. Improvement of the
trarisport facility could allow the expansion of this program.
mrhe size of adoption plot (10xli0m) was small and needed to be
increased. Also there was a need to use the whole livestock unit
rather thani a part of it. The NES allowed flexibility to be made on tile
size of AP/livestock adoption unit. Farner groups were given the
opportunity to decide on the size, type and location of AP/AUs so as to
increase the sense of clientele belonging and boost cohesioni.
^ Transport facilities shiould be provided according to needs and
physical features. On ordering  the bicycles for field workers,
considerations were made according to needs and physical features. It
was not possible to provide motorized facilities to geographical
difficulty areas due to financial constrainits. This also involved the
CMUs whilch were built-in-type instead of tthe former towinig type
*  Establishment  of  strotng  Research-Extension-Farners  linkiage
mechanism through:-
i) Joint Planning
ii) Pre-extension trials and observation plots
iii) On-farm trials
iv) Practicals for technical discussions anld follow up
v) Give attention to ITK
vi) Field days/farm tours
vii) Use of participatory approach
With the exception of research participating in Bi-mnonthly workshops, on
farm  trials and for  technical discussions (through Zonal Techiniical
Coordinating Committees) tthe linkage activities were not strong. There
was no regular budget for joint planning and budgeting for linkage
activities.
*  Establishment of extension oriented project/NGQs National and
Regional the Coordinating Committees for extension activities. The
established coordinating committees did not function as supposed
particularly in the regions.  The activities bs the NGOs were
uncoordinated resulting into unoptimal use of resources. Efforts in few
areas were made to coordinate NGOs activities. More efforts have to
be done to accomplish the coordination.
* Increased farmers' involvement in agricultural shows. The agricultural
shows were taking place mainly at National Level Organized by
,,



Tanzania Agricultural Society (TASO). Regions and districts hield the
agricLiltural shows using their own resources..
Re-designing the Extension MIS and strengthen the M & E Unit so as
to improve its implementation capacity including collection of
sufficient data on program impact. Until NALERP completion, the MIS
for NALERP was not yet prepared. The shortcoming was to be
resolved at the start of NAEP il. The baseline data for NAEP 11 war
collected. This is one of the inputs for re-designing the M&E system.
. Timely transfer of funds from NALERP HO/NBC  HQ to the regions.
Agreements were reached between NALERP and NBC management
on the modalities for speeding up the transfer of warrant of funds to
the regions. The situation thence irnproved tremendously.
7



Table I
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
;,I Prograim Inputs
NALERP start   Base end   %
1989           1996        chanige
No. of OMWs conducted                                   72%
No.-of MTSs conducted                                   81%
Training programs held (staff, farmers                  60%
Nos. train:ed                                                           ,
Cournterpart funds provided (%
relative to annual target)
(b) Prouram Outputs
No of farmers contacted                               2.14r
1                    (70%)
No. of adoption plots/units                          238,000
(c) Program Impact*
Adoption Rate                    l                      50%
Yields of Major Cominodities: (kg/ha)
Coastal zone                                                _
Maize                                   550        1200      118
Rice                                   1100        1300       18
Cassava (dry)                          1300        3000      130
Cashew nut                              150         650      333
Western & Central zones          __
Maize                                   750        1500      100
Sorghum/millet                          550  '      700       27
Cotton                                  350         650       86
Northern zone                                                        l
Maize                                  1200        1 G00      33
Coffee                                  350         370         6
* Based on Surveys



3.0   Organiisation anrd Matnagement
The first task before implementation of NALERP was the merging of tle
crop ancd livestock extension services into a multidisciplinary system.
This involved the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture Organization
structure under which the Agriculture and livestock departinenit were
unified headed by a  Comiiiissioner for Agriculture and  Livestock
Development (CALD) reporting directly to the Principal Secretary (PS).
The  CALD is assisted by five Assistant Cominissioners, one of thiein
being an Assistant Comrnissioner for Extensionl Services (ACES) - head
of the ExtLension Unit - (Annex 1).
At regional level the Regional Agricultural and Livestock Develuoptmenit
Officer (RALDO) is assisted by the three staff - the Regional Crop Officer
(RCO), Regional Livestock Officer (RLO) and Regional Extension Officer
responsible for extension activities. The latter is assisted by two SMSs
from crop and livestock.
At district level the DALDO is the head supported by the DEO, DLO and
DCO. The DEO is supported by two SMS - Crops and livestock in day to
day activities.
Below the district Agriculture and livestock activities are undertaken by
the DiVEO at divisional and VEOs at viliage level operating un(der a single
line of command.
The NALERP interventioni on the organization aid maniagemlielit structure
has all the evidence that enhanced the implementation of the project as
expected. At management level the structure has streamlined the line of
command anid easy message delivery arid feedback practice.
The unification has led to thie effective use of resources, as overall
planning, budgeting implementing, managing monitoring and evaluating
the extension program became the responsibility of CALD as stated in the
NALERP-SAR assisted by ACES. However, the structur,e being in place
supported the extension operations in terms of workplan preparation
implementation and overall supervision.
At village level the unification favored the farminyg cominuniity generally
practicing mixed farming and the utilization of human resources and
becamne much more efficient.
However, there were some deficiencies that the single line of com'mimand
could be observed in technical matters related to extension whiic goes
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



frorn ACES, REO to VEO and another which is administrative which runs
froin the PS-MoA to CALD, RALDO and DALDO.
The existence of these two chains of command became a constraint in
the implementation as regards to tecdhnical and administrative
answerability. from the District to National Level. As result, some staff in
the villages were not attended to as far as administrative issues were
concemed.
As regards to SMSs, at Regional and District Level under REO and DEO,
were supposed to range between 3 to 5 personnel, but only two SMS at
each level were engaged.
3.1   Procurement:
* Transport Facilities:
Transport facilities provided during project implementation period include
169 4WD vehicles, 896 motorcycles 7503 bicycles, 6 buses, 5 media
vans and one truck. 4WD vehicles were provided for MAC Extension
headquarters,  Regions  and  Districts  for  operational  activities.
Motorcycles were for SMSs and DIVEOs while bicycles were provided for
VEOs. Procurement of transport equipment have always been effected
through International Bidding as per World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
4WD vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles, provision in the first batch did
not consider geographical conditions of users and convenience of use in
that respect seemed inappropriate.
Maintenance of vehicles is only possible with fund allocation. Good
servicing and maintenance was carried out through dealers or
government appointed agents. Difficulties were faced where servicing
and maintenance facilities are not closer to users location. Due to these
difficulties some regions for example Singida had to send landrovers to
Arusha to get services, Tabora to Mwanza. Such distances brought
higher cost in terms of travelling and repair. For motorcycle and bicycles
these were provided on loan basis where users carried out service and
maintenance out of the maintenance allowances provided by the project.
However, it was observed that the allowances provided was inadequate to
over fuel, service and repair. This led to the grounding of some of these
transport facilities.
Effectiveness of Other Equipment & Facilities:
Other Equipment procured include Desk Computers, laptop computers,
phiotocopiers, electric and manual typewriters, duplicating machines,
l()



office furniture and fittings, veterinary, VEO/DIVEO kits, fax machines,
Land Use equipments, generators and various farmers education
equipment's see table 2.
Thesa equipments and facilities ; lave been effective in the
implementations of the project.  Office equipment has made office
operations smooth compared to the time before NALERP where there
were no such facilities, like computers, photocopiers, duplicating
machines, eiectric typewriters and manual typewriters in some district
offices.
Report ywriting and timely dissemination improved through use of
typewriters and computers for word processing. Although the use of
computer facility couldn't go to the extent of computerizing project records
due to lack of skills.
Communication facilities like fax machines have improved communication
between regions and MAC headquarters. As regards to implementation of
the project and other departments of the Ministry, Farmers' Education
equipment meant for mass communication and publicity were used and
contributed in the delivery of messages to farmers. This was facilitated
through farmers' magazines, leaflets, radio, radio programs, booklets,
video shows and posters. Some equipment like Compact Mobile Unit
have been useful, only that they were sophisticated and difficult to use by
field staff and that took a considerable time before they were fully utilized.
The use of CMU is limited to a few people at a time, does not provide a
wider screen to enable displays in public this was considered not cost
effective. Also the mobility of CMUs has not been easy by using ordinary
motorvans because of its weight. As regards to extension kits, they have
been useful except that need assessment for end users was not
considered before procurement as a result the list of contents per kit and
the 1 luality could not completely satisfy the demand.
3.2   Performance of Technical Assistance:
The project had a provision for Technical Assistance both on short and
long term.                                                I
The long term assistance included Agricultural Extension methodologist,
Procurement Specialist, Finance Specialist and Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist supported by local counterparts.
The latter were to understudy the experts and take over the responsibility
in two years time. The performance of this component was not very
Ii



satisfactory. The Methodology expert handed over the task to the local
expert, but the Monitoring and Evaluation expert failed to fulfill the terms
of reference leaving the project without a designed M & E system.
The procurement specialist left before the planned time and the local
counterpart did not assume full responsibility as it was handed over ti Ute
Finance Specialist. Terms of reference for he FS were fulfilled except
that after two years his service was provided without a local counterpart
and therefore at the request of the government the contract was extended
up to end of the project. Two training consultants and a management
consultant were contracted on a short term  basis.   Short term
consulbancies on computer services, cotton research methodologies and
communications were also hired and proved to be effective.
12



TABLE 2: NATION4AL AGRICULTURAL & LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
REHABILITATION PROJECT.
PROCUREMENT STATUS AS ON MARCH 1997
S/NO    ITEM                           PLAN   AS   PER  ACTUAL PROCUREMENT
SAR  FOR  TOTAL  FOR PROJECT
PROJECT
01      4 WO VEHICLES                                103                     169
02      MOTORCYCLES                                  892                     896
03      BICYCLES                                    6873                    9483
04      AUDIO VISUAL MOBILE UNITS                     12                      16
05      BUSES                                          4                       5
06      MEDIA VAN                                      1                       1
07      COMPUTERS                                      6                      24
08      ELECTRIC TYPEWITERS                            2                       2
09  -  MANUAL TYPEWRITERS                             55                      86
10      PHOTOCOPIERS                                   2                      82
11      DUPLICATING MACHINES                          69                      69
12      OFFICE FURNITURE AND FITTINGS                 67                      57
13      TAPE RECORDERS                                15                      18
14      PHOTOCOPIERS                                  70                      71
15      DUPLICATING MACHINES                          17                      17
16      CAMERA AND ASSESSORIES                        16                      16
17      SLIDE PROJECTOR                               15                      15
18      BLACK FLANNEL BOARD                           40                      40
19      DiVEO HOUSING                                141                      47
20      DiVEO EXTENSION KITS                         300                     300
21      VEO EXTENSION KITS                          2675                    4650
22      AC ACCUMULATTORS                             250                     250
23      STUDIO FOR RECORDING         I                 5                       5
24      STUDIO MIXER                                   1                        I
25      STUDIO RECORDER                                1                       1
26      STUDIO MICROPHONE                              3                       3
27      STUDIO MICROPHONE                              2                       4
28   =  TYPESETTING MACHINE                            1                       1
29      PLATE EXPOSING MACHINE                         1                    _1
30      POLAR CUTTING MACHINE                          1                       1
31      DARK    ROOM    PROCESSING                     1                       1
CAMERA                                                     _
32      LAB EQUIPMENT                           LUMPSUM                    4 SET
33      LAND USE EQUIPMEN T                     LUMPSUM                    4 SET
34      FAX MACHINE                                    0                      14
35      EDITING EQUIPMENT SET                          1                       1
36      GENERATORS                                    17                      19
37      TRUCK                                          1                       l
38      LAP TOP COMPUTER                               0                       2
39      MOBIILTEL                                      0                       2
40      COPY PRINTER                                   0                        1
13



3.3 Civil Works
Accommodation problems have been facing front line staff forcing tlhein to
stay long distances from their place of work and thus making it difficult to
deliver their services to farmers.
To address this problem NALERP had provision for the construction of
300 houses for DiVEOs in the 12 project regions. The plan was that the
project would provide building materials while labour would be contributed
by the village communities on self help basis. Due to implementation
difficulties envisaged on self help basis, construction by contractor was
undertaken and with that approach funds were limited to 160 houses.
Some delay to start construction resulted in cost escalation and thus
reduced the number of houses to 141. Construction began in 1992 and
the contractor was to complete- the work in a period of 100 weeks. During
implementation  the contractor proved inefficient and very slow and
therefore the contract was terrninated and tendering process was initiated
again.
So far 67 houses have been cornpleted and the reinaining 74 ar-e at
different stages - as shown in the table below.
Table 3: STATUS OF CIVIL WORKS AT NALERP COMPLETION
REGION                NO.         OF        STATUS
HOUSES
Dodomna)              39                    35 completed
Singida )
Morogoro              20                    Completed
Arusha                19                    Completed
Mwanza                28                    Construction  in
progress
Shinyanga             24                    Mobilization has
___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___   _ ____ __  already    started
Tabora                22                    It has not take off
In general the performance has not been satisfactory as ti;is facility has
been delayed to reach the targeted VEOs. The project had also a
provision for the rehabilitation of four Training Institutes responsible for
training field staff. These include MATI - Ukiriguru, llonga, Naliendele
and LITI Mpwapwa. The work has been completed.
14



4.0   Extenision Metliodology anzd Teclinology
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for thie National Agricultural and
Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project (NALERP) States that the
existing extension activities will be integrated into a single delivery system
and that the Training and Visit (T & V) extension methodology drawing
strengths from experiences gained from other donor extension activities
and results of the pilot operation, would be adopted (WB, 1989; p.17). It
was envisaged that Village Extension Officers (VEOs) would visit and
provide relevant and curren.t extension information to farmers and
livestock keepers in groups in a regular and systematic manner. The use
of adpption plots (AP) on farmers own fields was emphiasized and the
larger the number of farmers trying recommendations on APs would
signal good quality extension work. Contact farmers were expected to
lead in the adoption process considering they would constitute the best
choice in representative farming-systems.  Also the SAR provides for
supervision of activities at various levels.
4.1   T & V Field Implementation:
T-he classic Training and Visit (T & V) extension methodology was
adopted and project activities initiated in phases as stipulated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (WB  1989: p.10).  The introduction of the new
methodology was implemented through a series of Orientation
Workshops conducted to appraise all key players at all levels on their
roles and expectations.  The front-line extension staff i.e. Divisional
Extension Officers (DIVEOs) and Village Extension Officers (VEOs)
were assigned work areas depending on topography and distances but
generally a DIVEO was assigned 8 - 10 s VEOs to supervise and a VEO
was assigned 1 -2 villages. The VEOs were also assigned to draw maps
of their work areas, divide the maps into 8 cells and in each cell select 6
contact farmers with the assistance of farmers/livestock keepers in that
particular cell. Therefore, each VEO worked with 48 contact farmers. At
each contact farmer point 10 - 15 on conrtact farmers were listed so that
they would assemble at that point on their VEO's visit day to discuss and
receive recommendations for the following fortnight.
The front-line staff also regularly attended Fortnightly Training' Sessions
(FTS) and by and large used adoption plots and livestock adoption units
on farmers fields, herd or flock to convince farmers and livestock keepers
to try out technologies before adopting to whole farms herds/flocks. The
staff were also assigned to list all major enterprises and kept diaries in
o        which they recorded most important basic data of their work area as well
as major achievements and problems on a daily basis. To achieve tlhe
is



above each front-line staff prepared a schedule of activities refered to as
visiting schedule.
Supervision of Activities
Supervision as an activity was performed by national, regional, district
and divisional level staff. The major role of supervisory teamns was to give
guidance and support to the levels below. At the oriset of the project
activities supervisory teams concentrated efforts on the basic T & V field
organizational aspects like VEOs maps, visiting schedules,  contact
farmers setting up adoption plots etc. The aim  here was to give tle
syst'em a fare chance for a good start.
* Achievements:
= One of the major and significant early achieveinents associated withi
the introduction of T & V methodology was the unification of the
existing extension delivery modes into a single delivery system. Thlis
enabled the service to shift some frontlinie staff from villages with two
staff to others with none. This move widened the extension/farner
contact compared to the previous systern where two staff were placed
in the same village.
= It was observed that the extension service was activated and the staff
were eager to learn and seek for more inforniation
r Villagers, on the other hand, who had no staff suddenly felt they were
missing an important asset and made demands.
= The extension service became more professional and streamlinied in
that the extension officers who previously performed all types of jobs
were now concentrating efforts on deiivering, in the right maninler,
relevant and current information and technologies to their clients.
= The staff had some work program and some systematic way of
performing their duties.
= The adoption plot concept gave farmers a voice, pride and confidence
and had a multiplier effect when placed where visible to passers by.
16



. Problemns
Once the system was considered off the ground, some shortcomings
were noted. The training frequency of the adopted classic T & V
model became difficult to follow relative to the country's conditions. It
was therefore decided that the Monthly Workshops be modified to Bi-
monithly while the Fortnightly Training sessions were changed to
Monthly Training sessions.
Shortly afterwards, the Quarterly Workshops were considered impractical
and hence changed to Bi-mnonthly workshops. Two major reasons
necessitated these changes namely:
The cost involved in terms of time and money was becoming prolhibitive.
The financial bill for staff allowances and vehicle fuel and maintenance
was practically impossible to sustain the project activities for the planined
period of time.
Another major reason which necessitated  these modification-s was
associated with loss of otherwise productive time which was required for
travelling to and from training venues. Some VEOs and DiVEOs used two
full days, one prior to and one after, the training session solely as travel
time due to distances involved, unreliable transport facilities to and from
training venues and also dangers of wild life and even humans between
residences and training venues.
Another problem which was observed at the very early stages had to do
with the multidisciplinary role of the extension officers at village level.
The VEOs had not received any prior preparations for their new roles
hence had no confidence in themselves.  The farmers and livestock
keepers likewise had misgivings and mistrust on the technical efficiency
of the VEOs relative to their new roles especially in those areas where
commodity extension had been active e.g. coffee, cotton,tobacco, dairy
husbandry etc.
4.2   The Mid Term Review
The Mid Term Review (MTR) which was provided for in the Staff
Appraisal Report (WB; 1989: p20) was carried out in late 1992 to
ascertain, among others, the performance of the project and the impact of
the new methodology under a unified service. The assessment was done
by a multidisciplinary task force whose members made field trips to 8
-~~ ~~~-~sampi~''egibns Thut-~~thF Ih& 'then' -13  regi'ons' uinder -the"' project.
Questionnaires for individual responses and guide questions were used
17



to interview farmers, extension staff at all levels, researchers, trainers,
NGOs and many other relevant institutions to obtain direct practical
experiences, and perceptions of the various individuals at field level.
Below is an outline of some of the major MTR findings:
By the time of MTR the T & V concept had generally been understood and
extension staff and the service as a whole had became quite active.
Villagers without extension officers were dernanding for some and the
staff,  through the regular training, had gained some confidence
technically.  The multidisciplinary role, however, was still generally
difficult for the agents to perform especially the livestock oriented staff
Who still demonstrated some resistance.  The farmers and livestock
keepers mistrust had generally waned off as staff demonstrated their
technical competence and capabilities on various agricultural issues.
Thie retraining program  instilled further conifidence in farmers ti-at the
government was serious with the service especially as more anid more
staff became retrained and came back to the service with new zeal.
4.3  T & V Tools and Pillars
r & V extension approach is hinged on a nurnber of tools and pillars
which  make it different from  other approaches and the project
performance is dependent upon the performance of each of these. The
MTR revealed some misconceptions and imnplementation difficulties
associated with each of the tools and/or piliars as discussed below:
* Visiting Schedule
Maps and visit schedules are integral parts of the T & V extension system
and are the lst steps towards an organized professional activity. The
MTR revealed that while 64% of VEOs kept proper maps and understood
their visiting schedules, they were, however, unable to follow them strictly.
This resulted from large distances between contact groups; in appropriate
transport facilities (especially on high terrains and - during rains),
insufficient time for practicals and also farmerNEO timing. Some farners
start work at 6.00 am and leave the fields between 10.00 - 12.00 noon
while extension officers work between 7.30am and 3.30pm. It was
observed that the VEOs and their visiting schiedules were too rigid and
except for a few dynamic VEOs who adjusted their schedules to match
those of their farmers, the majority simply pointed an accusing finger at
the prescribed schedule. Most VEOs interviewed suggested the need to
reduce the number of contact farmers per VEO to 3 - 4.
18



The MTR recommended therefore that VEOs should adjust their visiting
schedules to conform with or match those of their clients (i.e. farmers and
livestock keepers) in order to expand the farnerNEO contact. Apparently
while thie MTR clearly recognized the VEOs difficulties in following their
schedules, did not give any recommendation to this effect. It was not until
1994 in a project progress review meeting that a decision to let VEOs
work with 3 - 4 groups/day was reached.
On farmers awareness of the VEOs visit schedules, 49% of farmers
interviewed responded positively. It was learnt that most VEOs depended
on contact farmers to remind the non contact farmers regarding tle
scheduled meeting day.
* Farmer Groups in Extension
The MTR recornmended the use of contact groups in extension as a result
of misconceptions regarding the contact and non contact farmer concept
by a substantial number of VEOs.
Where as the guidelines required VEOs to work closely with farmers and
livestock keepers in the selection of representative rnembers, it was
observed in some instances that this was not followed resulting in some
non contact farmers resenting to participate. It was also noted that some
extension workers misunderstood the roles of the contact farmers (CFs) in
this system and therefore worked with the CFS alone and reiied on thiese
CFS to convey or pass oni the technical messages to non contact farrners.
The MTR observed that while an abundant number of women arid youth
groups exist in rural settings not many VEOs exploited thlis situation. This
apparent lack of initiative and flexibility delayed the use of groups in
extension.
* Adoption plots
The adoption plot concept was also misunderstood in soliie cases. The
extreme case was noted where a farmer wanted to adopt on whole farm
but was discouraged by the extension staff who insisted on the 10in x
1Om adoption plot as the book says. The 1Om x 10in plot was considered
too small by some early adopters who suggested bigger plots of A2 - 1
acre size.  The level of technical competence of some extension staff
was considered a factor in some of these misunderstandings: The MTR
o             recommended flexibility in this issue and that those VEOs wiho were
considered unworthy be retrenched.
19



Supervision
By MTR time, it was noted that a lot of misconceptions accruing from the
new methodology had been minimized as a result of supervision. Most of
the initial organisational aspect functioned weli due to consistent advise,
support and guidance of supervisor to front-line staff.
The MTR, however noted that supervision targets were too ambitious and
rarely met. The DiVEOs supervised close to 75% of their targets, the
dist;ict staff achieved 60% of their targets while the regional level staff
achi'eved only 43.6% of their targets. Major reasons for failure to achieve
target were cited as limited funding for the activity, large distances
involved, low staff motivation, low supervisory activities during slack farn
activities and transport facility inadequacies .
* Development of Technical Messages and Impact Points
The introduction of T & V extension system brought about this systemlatic
way in which research and extension expects sit as partners, discuss,
agree on and simplify technical messages and impact points for final use
by farrners.
During the first year of NALERP implemnentation, the procedure was
rather mechanistic and top-down. But by MTR, the frequent visits by
extension, the continuous feedback from VEOs and the regular
discussions with researchers, most messages and impact points were
farmer problem oriented. This procedure was made possible througi tIhe
regular Bi-monthly Workshops in which Extension and researchers,
NGOs etc. meet to develop/synthesize messages which are transmitted
to front-line staff during MTS and finally reach the farmers/livestock
keepers.
The MTR found out that these sessions were highily appreciated by the
staff. However, the review team also recognized that extension staff paid
little attention to providing their clientele with basic and necessary
information such  as prices and availability of inputs, produce, farm
implements, grades and grading, marketing issues etc.
The MTR recommended that extension staff at all levels concern
themnselves with all aspects of agricultural development and constantly
pay due attention to farmers current problems and practices as the sure
way of serving them adequately.
21)



The MT'R also noted that most extension staff were not cost conscious
relative to messages they delivered (input/output relationship), while
farmers were already very concerned about the costs of production. Thie
review  thus  recommended   delivery  of  economically  viable
messages/recommendation.
The unavailability of appropriate farm implements was found to be a
limiting factor to technology adoption hence a challenge to research. In
Singida for example, use of draught power had been adopted widely.
However weeders were not easily available.
Diring this study it was concluded that livestocki message adoption rates
were lower than the crop message adoptions. The main reasons were
found to be the large cash needs for most livestock improvement
messages coupled with the length of time required before results. The
MTR challenged extension to concentrate on husbandry messages
needing less cash outlay and move on to higher cash needing messages
as livestock keepers appreciate the improvements.
The use of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) was recognized (e.g.
use of medicinal ebb's or burning of lymph nodes to cure some animal
diseases; also inter-cropping, farm level indigenous storage facilities or
use of ashes for grain storage etc however, little research has been done
to verify and/or standardize their use.  It was recommended that
researchers direct attention to ITK and see how they can be incorporated
with modern technologies.
In summary the MTR major recommendation in so far as Extension
Methodology and Technology Developmnent are concerned are outline
below (Not necessarily in priority order):
* VEOs visiting schedule as well as sizes of Adoption Plots should be
flexible.
a Women and Youth groups as well as any exiting formal and inforin
groups should be identified and used as contact groups in technology
delivery.
. Agriculture information delivery should forn  part of VEOs and
extension service responsibilities.
* Research should work on ITK
Extension should deliver economically viable recommendations.
21



4.4. NALERP Final Review
At project completion time, a multidisciplinary Task Force was selected
and conducted a study through field visits in which farmers, extension
oriented NGO representatives, leaders, trainers and extension staff at
various levels were interviewed.  The Task Force produced a report
named Phase II Draft Report of July, 1995. Generally the team observed
that concerted efforts had been made to implement the extension
methodology  MTR  recommendations.  However,  the  level  of
accomplishment  varied  depending   on  the  complexities  and
implementation difficulties of the individual recommendations.
Apparently, the draft report was not explicit on achievements pertaining to
implementation of MTR recommendations rather limited its concentration
on those areas and MTR recommendations which further required
emphasis.
* VEO Visiting Schedule
VEOs continued to express difficulties in meeting their visiting obligations
due to same reasons as in MTR although there is evidence that through
supervision efforts many VEOs were able to adjust their working hours to
match those of their clients. Data gathered 31so showed that despite
these difficulties, 70% of targeted farmers had contact with extension
albeit in varying frequencies, while 80% of target villages were reached.
* Farmer Groups in Extension
The use of farrner groups was still observed to be weak althiougl tlhere
was evidence of efforts inade to this effect.
On average VEOs inade between 3 - 4 visits per day to a combinatiun of
individual contact farmers and groups where dynamic VEOs and hlighily
motivated groups existed.- One of the major reasons pertaining to the
unsatisfactory use of groups by extension relate to low tecihnical
competence of VEOs in the subject. Formation and use of groups is a
new area to extension which necessitate acquisition of knowiedge and
s~kills not currently possessed by the extension staff. This is explained
further by failure of some VEOs to attempt working with existing groups
e.g. youth and women groups.
* Adoption Plots
After MTR, supervision teams concentrated efforts on guiding front-line
staff on the use of APs. The instituted flexibility on size was explained
22



and site selection was also given more emphasis so that most APs would
be easily observed by other farmers hence act as farm level classrooms.
In 1992/93 and 1993194 Seasons adoption plots/livestock adoption units
reached 42% - 64% of annual targets respectively. This indicated that
the adoption plot concept was acceptable and on the increase. However,
the choice of size was the farmers/groups responsibility.
Extension Program Development
The procedure and program component relevance was challenged in that
tQo much emphasis was placed on major enterprises for too long while
igrforing minor but very important enterprises for certain microclimates.
The procedure also limited the involvement/participation of beneficiaries,
and was not gender sensitive.
* Extension Communication Methods
A coinbination of methods were found 'o be miiore effectives. H1owever,
most field staff were not competent in the use of the various methods
limniting themselves in the use of method and result demonstrations. Field
days were needed to a limited extent. Extension and veterinary kits were
supplied to staff.  Mass media was used to a limited extent. Radio
programmes were aired between 3.00 and 7.30pm. Farmers prefered the
7.30pin. Even then it was noted that only about 30% of farmers/livestock
keepers listen to the radio due to irregular supply of batteries in the rural
areas.
Publications were produced, however, due to old age of the printing
machines the quality and quantity has been poor.
Production and use of visual aids has been found to be very useful at
farmer level, however, production has been limited due to large cash
requirements for the various materials and for the various levels of staff.
Use of video cassettes, subject matter modules and filns has been limited
due to transport problems.
* Delivery of Technical Messages and lImpact Points
After MTR a lot of improvements were made more practical skills teaching
to front-line staff. Attempts to widen subject matter areas and topics were
made. However, it was noted that extension staff lacked knowledge and
skills in some of the envisaged important topics such as farm budgeting,
plant protection, farm  economics, land use etc.  There were somie
inprovements towards information delivery especially on produce markets
and input availability and prices.
23



As regards use of ITK not much appears to have been done. This is
probably because research communities have other priorities.
5.0   Staff and Farmers Traininiyg:
Basing the efficiency and effectiveness of tlhe rehiabilitated extension
system on sustained regular and continuos.traiiiing, the SAR provided for
rehabilitation of the infrastructure of four training centres, uparadilng
equipment of farmers education publicity section and provision of sholrt-
td'rn training specialist. The training offered to both staff and farners
would be skill focused, continuous and practical oriented.
Furthermore, the SAR stated thiat farmers particularly, women and youth
would receive special attention under the project.
Existing Farmer Training Centres (FTCs) would focus on rural youthl anid
women and selected innovative farmers would participate in short subject
matter courses the FTCs to speed up their transformation from.
subsistence to commercial farning.
Staff Training Would Concentrate On:
*  Regular and continuous training through Bimonthly workshiops anld
Monthly Traing Sessions.
*  Retraining of VEOs for 3,082 staff
* Training of trainers for 210 staff
* Overseas training for MSc/PGD 29, short courses 26, study tours and
seminars 100 staff.
Broadly Training Would Be Based On Four Areas:-
. Performance
* Job description
* Career development and promotion opportunities
* Changes in needs
Field Implementation & MTR Finding:
*    Regular Training:
The introduction of the T&V extension methodology to a new project area
was preceded by a three days orientation - workshop for senior
headquarters, regional and district extension staff, researchers and
extension related NGO representatives.
24



Initially WB staff from Nairobi were the major resource persons; however,
after the first two years, it was a joint effort between WB staff, and senior
headquarters staff and eventually MOAs responsibility.
lImmediately after these workshops, the regional and district staff
conducted one day orientation sessions for front-line extension staff and
also carried out public relations exercises to orient leaders (technical and
political), other MOA staff input suppliers etc. on NALERP implementation
procedures and plans.
By the time of the MTR a total of twelve orientation workshops, had been
conducted for the thirteen regions as well as the four regions in the
Southerin Highlands under the IFAD.
Sustainable regular and continuous training was accomplished througlh
Bi-monthly workshops for regional and district staff in which technologies
were discussed and impact points developed for eventual use by front-
line staff. Seventy such workshops had been conducted by MTR time.
There were, however, some pertinent problems identified in relation to
these workshops. By and large, theory dominated the sessions so that
most subject matter specialists, while rating them useful recommended
more well focused practical sessions for increased efficiency and
effectiveness. It was also noted that researchers, whose presence as
eitlher resource persons or participants was considered essential, proved
rather inadequate. This limited the levei of interaction between research
and extension hence suffocating the smooth and steady flow of ideas and
technology transfer mechanisms.
Training for front-line extension staff was regularly conducted through
monthly training sessions of which 2126 such sessions had been
conducted by the time of MTR. Most of the staff interviewed during
the cause of MTR responded that these sessions were very useful but
had similar problems of inadequate practical skill learning sessions.
With the recommended shift in emphasis from contact farmer to contact
group, the MTR further recommended that front-line staff be trained in
communication aspects, and group organization and dynamics concept.
Retraining Programme:
This programme intended to retrain 3,082 VEOs, of these 2,037 were
crop oriented and 1,045 livestock specialized, in a period of 3 years. Thie
purpose of the programme was to cotnvert the crop or livestock
25



specialized VEOs into multidisciplinary officers equipped with knowledge
and skills to perform general agricultural advisor and educator roles.
Formally the program was intended to last for a duration of ten (10)
months, however, it was shortened to 5 months to reduce the length of
time large numbers of VEOs would be abcent from their work places and
also the cost element was considered.
The performance of the program was not anywhere near the planned
levels since only 18% of target was achieved by the time of MTR.
Tile low achievement level was probably due to the fact that there was no
solid pre-determined and elaborate post training recognition.  Also
initially, the MOA had not made it clear that thiis was the adopted policy
and one would be a misfit without undergoing thie retraining.
The pioneers of the program  were positive about the outcome of the
training received relative to their new roles. Most of thetn, however,
considered some of the subjects taught to be rathier irrelevant to their
practical situations.
It was noted that the crop specialists were much more eager to receive
livestock training than the livestock specialists in receiving crop training. It
was found out from interviews of tutors and the retrained staff that the
livestock discipline and especially animal health aspects were considered
more beneficial to the individuals than the crop discipline.
Training of Trainer.
This 3 weeks programme was especially designed for Regional and
District Extension Officers and the subject matter specialists with the
intention of providing knowledge and skills for planning and conducting
effective training sessions. It was targeted that 210 staff would receive
this training by MTR, however only 66 individuals had been trained by
MTR time giving a 31 % achievement of target.
Individuals interviewed responded that the training was very useful, but
that more practical skill learning would have been appreciated. They also
thought the duration was short which necessitated very tight daily
schedules.
Responding to how effective and efficient the trained staff were in
performing their training roles, the front-line staff who are second- level
beneficiaries (as they receive training from the first level beneficiaries) felt
that the District Staff after attending these courses demonstrated a lot of
26



comipetence in terms of lesson plans, tiliye imanagemilent and presentation
skills etc.
Overseas Training:
It was targeted that a total of 92 officers would be offered trainiing outside
ttie country. By MTR, 70% of target had beenl achieved. This programlilme
included study tours, short courses and long courses.
Training Plans and Strategies:
As e'arly as 1990 just one year after the initiation of the NALERP, the
Ministry developed a trainiing plan in which a tlhree year general certificate
course in Agriculture featured prominently.  The existing specialized
Diploma curricula were revisited. and field requirement situation studied
leading to reductioni in the number of specialized diplomas (froin 15 to 10)
and the curricula for the remaining 10 diploma courses revised to colforrim
withi the new outlook. About the same time a short terrn  consultant
recominended the introduction of a general diplorna in Agricultire with
only 2-3 specialized diplomas in aniinal healthl and land use.
*     Farmer Training:
The FarmTers Education arid Publicity Unit (FEPU) was revitalized tlhroughl
the provision of equipment arid transport necessary to enhance extelision
materials developillenit and message transfer to farmlers.
By MTR timne, nine (9) regions in the project area had received various
equipment including tape recorders, still picture cameras, video cameras,
monitors, video editing equipment, Compact Mobile Units (CMU) and one
media van for the FEPU head office.
The FEPUJ runs soime Farmnes Traininig Centers, whichi according to SAR,
were to focus on rural youth and women to bring them into the stream of
technology adoption, unfortunately they were not funded underNALERP.
Training of farmers under MOAs meagre funding continued in the various
institutes. Between 1989 - 1992 a total of 1010 farners/livestock keepers
had attended 1 day to 2 weeks seminars and courses on various subject
miatter areas.
The MTR had also recominended that the trainable field auxiliaries undergo a 2
 year course in general agriculture so that they qualify as VEOs. Thiis was not
achieved and in the course of changing policies, this cadre has almost ceased
as the majority have been retrenched.
27



NALERP Final Review
After MTR, the training programme continiued withl its focus on regular and
continuous training, retraining, training of trainers and overseas traininig.
Regular and Continiuous Training:
Two orientation workshops were coriducted for incorTming regionis of Dar
es salaarn, Coast and Tanya regions during after MTR. Orientation
sessions were conducted for new staff memirbers entering any of the
project regions in order to acquaint thern with the impleimenitation
prGcedures.
Bi montlhly workshiops continued with a target of G sessions per year.
This was not always accomnplished.  hlie review revealed that the
frequency, timeliness, duration, relevance of imipact poinits developed
were rated  satisfactory.   However, researchers participationi was
considered inadequate most probably due to poor fundirig, distarnces
involved and soimetimes researchers perception and attitudes towards
this extension activity relative to their researcth priorities.
Monthly training sessions were carried out at a level of 85% of targets.
Normally 12 sessions were planned but some District Extension Staff
claimed to have failed to conduct betwieen 2-3 MTS per year due to
untimely availability/release of funds arid also transport problemls.
It was clearly stated by VEOs and DiVEOs that practical skill training was
not emphasized and this was attributed to time constraints and insufficient
planning and execution of sessions. Thlere was also a general feeling
that topics were repeated too rmuch probably due to focusinig on techiniical
issues only.
Retraining Programmi1e:
By the time of NALERP completion review, a total of 1,095 certificate
holder VEOs had been retrained (1991 - 95). Of these 684 were retrained
in livestock discipline and 411 in crop discipline. Thiis was about 52% of
the target.
The original target figure of 2,081 however, was the saime pool froil which
candidates for in service diploma courses were being drawn every year.
Consequently only 600 VEOs had remained to be retrained reducing the
pool to 1,695 instead of 2,081. In this case the achievemnent level was
around 65% of new target.
2$1



The original figure 3082 (MOA: MTR P68) had been reviewed down to
2081  (MOA Phase II Final Draft Report. P.45) At the samie timiie as tihis
has the same pool for in service diploma candidates, the final review
indicated only 600 VEOs were to be retrained. Apparently, as tlhe
retraining programme became popular and deemed essential by VEOs,
the diploma holder VEOs also recognized the need for therni to be
retrained for increased efficiency.  Urnfortunately this cadre was riot
retrained in phase I although the MTR had recomimiended so.
Training Of Trainers (TOT)
'Of the total 210 officers targeted for the TOT courses, 114 were trainied
giving an achievement level of 54% by -,ompletion review timie. Fuliding
was a major impediment to TOT impleinentationi.
*     Mlanagement Courses:
The MTR had recommriended that senior extensioni staff be train)ed in
management aspects. This was in relation to shiortcomiiings noted by MTR
that most senior staff lacked essential skills and knowledge in planning,
budgeting, motivating staff, coordinating issues and people, report writing,
decision making etc. The project in collaboration with the Institute of
Development Management (IDM) Mzumbe, Morogoro worked out a
programrne of study for a duration-of 3 weeks. It was then planned that
120 staff would attend this course, however, by project comipletionl review
timne only 63 people had attendied. This was a 52% acihievemilenit.
* Study Tours and Seininars:
As T & V systemi hiad been adoptedJ ill somie countries, the idea of
sending out senior staff to  these  countries was recognized as
opportunities to study, observe antd/learn fromii experiences of these
countries. 100 staff were targeted for study tours to countries like Ii dia,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Uganda; However, the number was
exceeded to 106 at an achievemTlerit level of 106%. 4 staff attenided
serninars out of planned 6 (67%).
*    Postgraduate Studies and Short Courses:
Agricultural extension was the priority field of study during NALERP. It
was planned that 29 staff would be sponsored for MScfPGD courses,
however only 18 were trained (62% achievemiient) whiiie 2G were targeted
o          for short courses but only 15 received training (58% of target).
Z9



FEPU staff training took place. Apart from 6 persons wlho received
academic training at Msc and PHD in extenlsioni; all regional publicity
officers and RSMSs attended two, 3 week training courses on use of CMU
equipment. Also Video production and editing course was offered to
FEPU headquarters technical staff. Thlere were conducted by a shIort terim
training specialist.
I-armer Traininlg:
Tile NALERP did not give due attentioni/eriiphasis to farimier trainiing in
Farmer Training Centers althiouglh the SAR hiad recognized and stated the
'peed for this activity.  There were, however, organizations like TFA,
SG2000 and NGOs wiho sponsored some specialized training to farmers
and livestock keepers.
Such training is justified in (hat the regular VEO visits to fariimers were
tiiiie constrained hience limiiting develepierit opportuniities for specific
problems of farmers (Youth Womien), for exarmiple, construction of farim
structures, simple food processing procedures, nursery manageimient anld
the like. Those farmers who received trainiing responded that thiey were
very useful and beneficial to their agricultural developmenit.
The total number of farmers who received specialized training was 079,
out of those 148 were womeni (17%). These courses were condLicte(d in
thie Farmers Traininig Centers in the project area namiiely Msolwa in
Morogoro, Bihawana in Dodoima and 3uheimba in Mara Reyionis. Iln
addition to this the total number of farmers wlio received trainingy iln tlle
MOA Institutes by 1995 was 16,036. This is, however, a very smiall figure
considering the millionis of farners extensionl woiks with.
*     GCominunication Support:
Considerable support in termis of materials anid equipimient was provided
to the FEPU. By 1995, all regions in the project had received 12 CMUs
equipped with professional modules in various subject mnatter areas like
I-lorticulture, soil manageinent, irrigation, cattle maniagemnelnt etc. Olhers
are 18 tape recorders, computerized type setting macthine for desk-top
publishing and place exposure machine, VH-IC Video Recorders (1 1), VCR
(13) and VCR monitors (13). Other equipimient earmarked for purclhase
during NALERP, however, were not received are photocopiers,
duplicating machines, polar cutting mactlines, dark room  camera and
radio studio facilities.
The CMUs proved inefficient as they had to be pulled by vehicles. This
situation necessitated takinig out individual items and equipmenlt's froin
.30



CMUs for use in the field. Most CMUs have been left standing in packing
lots.
The recomniendation whichi sought to focus trairning on rural youtli ancd
womeni was not accomplishied although the nianagement was conivinced
of the need. This was due to budgetary constrainits considerinig that
NALERP did not provide funding for FTCs.
G.)   Researcih Extenisioni Fariner/Likilcage
T-he kindJ of linkages envisaged by the SAR were to be based on comimlrion
decis1on by researcth and extension on types of farmer problemils to be
solved; researchers cominunicating solutions to extension workers;
feedback of farmers additional field probleins from extension to researcil;
anid research trying to solve these problemTs. Extension messages would
be based on researcih conducted in agro-ecological zones they are
intenided for (WS: 1989; p18).
The linkage was perceived to be iriteractive and research products
relevant to farmers needs. The farrning systeiiis research pbtelitial was
recognized and the appoin(tment of Research-Extenision Liaison Officers
(RELOS) would foster close coordination conitacts between research arid
extension and also would be incharge of evaluating  feasibility and
econornic viability of recomimlendations. The liaison officers would also
ensure  interactiorn  between  research  and  extension at Bimonitlily
workishops.  Two annual workstiops to be held at zonal level would
erisure fariners and extensioni input into research agenda. A pre-season
worklshop to be held at zonlal level would evaluate the on-far-iii trials
imTplemnerited by FSR and discuss niext years on-farimi trials.
6.1   Field liplemnentation and MTR findings:-
Ideally the two institutionis, research andl extetnsioni are interdependent on
one another witl one comminon client the   "FARMER/LIVESTOCK
KEEPER". The two entirely agree that stronig links between 'theii are
essential for the success of sustainable agricultural developmielnt, while at
the same time recognizing that creation and maintenance of such lintks is
not an easy task (MOA, 1993A: p.74). Thie initiatives elaborated in SAR
were to facilitate the linklage process, however, by MTR time (1992) only
two RELOs had been appointed and just before the MTR the RELO
position had been abolished. The RELOs activities and responsibilities
were assigned to Regional Extension  Officers (REOs).   Anothier
shortcoming relates to the annual pre-season wortkshops which.were not
held. The MTR noted thiat there were some occasional meetings and
activities between research and extension, however, tilese were limiited to
3' 



field days organized by research  centers under FSR  programme,
extension implementing some FSR diagnostic surveys, and also some
interaction during the regular extension OMWS.
These  interactions  and  relationships  were  however, considered
inadequate and that with all due respect and recognition of the FSR
potentials and responsibilities in providing linikages, the involveTienlt of
extension in FSR activities was superficial and of low profile. Extension
stafF were hardly involved in the planniniig process nor in the analysis of
data pertaining to diagnostic surveys for ofi farin research.  At iilst,
extension staff were involved in organizing farmers into groups and
'irnterviewing them. It was also observed that where there was a link, it
was limited to the frontline staff especially the VEOs.
In some cases neither the regional staff nor the distr ict staff weme
informed of the existence of on going researchl initiatives in their are as of
jurisdiction.  Farmers involvemient in thie trials was also considered
inadequate. The MTR thus concluded that little progress had been miiade
to foster stronger relationships between research/extension and farniers
from project inception to MTR time and therefore recommTienided joint
execution of activities ie. from planning of both extensioni and researci
agendas to data analysis and budgeting for each others activities.
6.2   Indigerious Technical lKnowledge:
Duririg the cause of impleietinyg tile NALER1P, extensioni staff at valious
levels recognized the existence of a range of indigenous technlical
knowledge (ITK) withiin the rural farming comi1Tlunities. Except fur a few
ITK, however there has been no extensionl messages developed and
dissemiiinated in verification to ITK. This has been attributed to general
lack of or little scientific verification of ITIK by researchers.  Mixed
cropping is perhaps one of a few ITKs whiichi hias received recogniitiuon arnd
imluch research carried out and recomnineidations released altltoughi it
appears to spread rather slowly. The use of water rnelons as a sole water
source for ruminants is another ITiK which has received some recognitioll
and research undertaken. In general, however, there are a lot of ITI(s
whiich could, if verified, assist in agricultural developrmet t anid
environmental conservation.
6.3   Adoption/Observation Plots:
Since the inception of NALERP, a substantial number of adoption plots
were implemented with technological content related to the selected mnajor
enterprises extension concentrated on and based on officially research
released recommendationis. Since research priorities were determined
32



nationally, most recominendatiotis whichi were tried on APs were of
ublanlket" nature lacking the area/location specificity necessary for true
agricultural developrnent. Recognizing tlis as a problem, a national
initiative was launched for subject matter specialists in the various
ecological zones to develop and document recomrnendations based on
ttheir own experiencesb and knowledge froin research on various
agricultural activities.  The APs, however, were farmer based in that
farmers selected site with only one conditioni that they (APs) be placed in
areas in the field where they can be visible to passers-by. Farmers
imnplemented them and provided all necessary and recommended inputs.
This arrangement compared very favourably to the former technology
d6jnonstrations whicth were performed by extension staff and inputs
bought by a third party. Of course, this does not entirely disapprove such
observation/demonstration plots because some of them, for example, thle
fertilizer observation plots have been cause for wide spread adoptions.
6.4   Development of Impact Points:
This essential undertakiing occurs in the regular BMWs wihich are
attended by regional and district extension officers (REOs,DEOs), SMS
and researchers. In these meetings feedback from the field is discussed
anid dec:ision made as to whiether problemns deserve to be channeled to
researcih or a solution can be found. Some key players like NGOs, input
suppliers, crop marketing institutions were to be represented in these
workshops. However, it was not always the case, hence narrowitng thle
scope and diversity of ideas and activities. It was also noted that the
inability of researchers to regularly attend these workshops was limiting
the process of technology development and transfer.
6.5   Field Days, Tours and Agricultural Shiows:
Field days and tours can provide inforinal but productive interactiolis
between  farmers/extensionlresearch.    Responses  froii  interviews,
indicated that during the period before MTR, soine field days anid tours
took place but not adequately. Major reasons for this inadequacy were
financial constraints particularly in relation to transport.  Where this
happened, farmers played a leading role in explaining to other farrners
and staff the irnplementation of on-farm  trials. The above were FSR
initiated. There is evidence that extension did conduct some field days
and farm tours for farmers but ttlere is no evidence of research anid
extension together organizing tours of field days around adoption plots.
This demonstrates lost opportunities.  Both research and extension
participate in agricultural shows as well as NGO's and the private sector.
These shows are organized  by various institutions such as the
Tanganyika Farners' Association annual agricultural show; the lKagera
3 1



Region permanenit exhibition at Kyakairabwa stadium and the farmier
annual 818 event. Agricultural shows thave helped change somie farmiiers
and other individuals attitudes towards adopting recommendations.
6.6   Professional Societies:
Within the MOA, there are a nurnber of professional societies wliich aimn to
develop their particular professions and usually give recomTimlendations to t-le
Ministry. Most of these meet annually and bring together researchers and
extensionists. Many papers are presented and discusssed with a lot of sharing
experiences. The MTR noted that these societies play a big role in linkcing
researchers and extensionists. Perhaps the ensuing argumiient lies on ihow best
farmers could be represented in these rneetings.
Below is a summary of MTR major recommendations in relation to Linkages.
*  Adequate funding and joint planning research and extension activities mnust
be provided.
.  Developed technologies and recommendationis must be related/answer
farmers problems and be economicaily viable.
* Research and Extension should give due attention to ITIK.
*  An inputs schemne in collaboration with credit institutionis shiould be
established to ease the problem of inputs availability.
*  Zonal Research Advisory Corinmittee should be reactivated and rrieet
regularly as planned.
6.7   NALERP Completion Review:
After MTR a number of initiatives were taken apart from the already
instituted BMWs wlhich continued.
T'hese Include:
A  meeting  held  in  Murogoro  in  November,1992  betweern the
commniissioners of Researcih and Training (CRT) and Coiminissiolners of
Agriculture and Livestock Development (CALD), where all agreemilent was
reached to create and maintain linkages throughi provision of adfequate
resources.  The Assistant Commissioners of Extension and Farming
systems Research were charged with the responsibility of providing the
linkage contact at national level, while zonal coordinators were to link with
Regional Extension Officers.  The village Extension Officers were
34



instructed to help in the implenmentation of FSIR activities. There has
been evidence that the later, ie, VEOs contact and interaction witli
research through FSR has improved.
Other initiatives include Extension services working paper regarding
forination of a National Tectinical Recominendationis Committee as a
follow-Lip to the Novem)ber, 1992 agreement. This was endorsed by tlhe
National Pre-season implementation Planning Workshiop held at suy-a
Research Institute, Kibaha in October 1993.  In 1994 Septeniber, a
proposal by the extension services was formulated to forn a number of
Regional Donor Cuordinating  Comnirittees to improve efficiency of
'gxtension and research efforts through creating linkages between donors.
In November, 1993, in an Aide-Mernoire by World Bank missioni, it was
proposed that observation plots be initiated and maniaged by VEOs.
These were to allow initial testing of ideas proposed by extension and
farmers. These Plots were to compare one to three practices witil farmiers
supplying the necessary inputs while technical advise would conie from
VEOs. An ambitious figure of 6-9000 such plots were targeted. This idea
while impressive became rather impractical considering the trainirig and
organlizational implication1 and VEOs already tight sclhedules.
Perhaps one positive linkage incidence supported by NALERP is tlhe
orqanization of farm tours for farmers from Kagera and Kigonia Regions
visiting fellow farrners in Uganda to observe and learn about cultural
practices on bananas.
The aforesaid gives an indication of attemnpted efforts to create arid
miaintain linkages however not very much has been achiieved most
probably due to budgetary constraints for practical implementation of thle
various aspects suggested. It is thus generally accepted that a lot has to
be done to create and maintaini meaniingful linkages.
7.0   Coordiniationi of Extensiotn Orienited Activities
The National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Policy and
implementation guidelines formulated in 1992, stipulates that MAC has to
provide coordination of all extension programmes operating on Tanzania
mainlarnd to ensure effective extension services are provided to the
farming cornmunity and to make efficient use of available resources.
During NALERP implementation two subject niatter specialist in crops and
livestock at regional and district levels were fully involved in the project.
Most specialised staff in other disciplines have not been utilised fully and
even resource persons from Research and Training Institute have not
35



been well coordinated and utilised. In that respect coordination within
MAC staff proved unsatisfactory.
Initenninisterial coordination has been effected at district level wilere
various ministries/local government meet in District Management Teaiii
(DMT) at which heads of department discuss various development pianls
for further approval.  These plans form  regions plans discussed at
Regional Management Team (RMT) whichi are consolidated into Regiornal
plains presented in a Regional Developinent Committee. However. tlese
meetings could not discuss in detail the extension programmne to allow for
coordination of resources.
J
Coordination with other extension ori4nted progranmnes/projects was
carried out though not satisfactorily mainly because many projects have
different entry points some are at National, Regional, District and some
times at ward level.
These projects use various approaches in extension ranging froai
modified T&V, client based, integrated, input supply, participatory,
coommodity to private consultants.
At the time of NALERP inception in 19389, tliere were 14 projects doing
agricultural extension in the country. At the M-VR the number increased to
26. Up to end of NALERP there were 75 projects involved in Agricultural
Extension. These include Cashew & Coconut Tree Crops Project, Smnall
Scale Dairy Development Project in the Southern Highlands, Sasakawa
Global 2000 operating in 7 regions, KALIDEP - Kagera, HPI in 9 regions,
Southern Highlands Extension and Rura' Financial Services - Sl-HERFS,
World Vision International operating in 4 regionis comlinunity Developimlelit
Trust Funds (CD TUF) in 3 regions, CSPD - UNICEF, Mogabiri Farm
Extension Centre - MFEC. Projects which are directly under MoA were
easy to coordinate in terms of resource use cornpared to those operatirig
from different authorities.
Examples include the cashew & Coconut Tree Project, SIHERFSP. Surme
few NGO's like Sasakawa Global 2000 and MFEC whiere coordinated in
terms of physical resources.
8.0   Monitorinig & Evaluationi
The primary objective of M $ E systeim  was to provide timnely anid
appropriate information to the extension managemnent so as to imiprove its
decision making.
36



As per SAR, the implementation of the above was to be associated with
the preparation of reports every six monthis. These reports were to record
the physical and financial progress, and to some extent the project
imnpact.
Generation of the information required a well designed M & E systern
containin9g the Managemnent Inforination Systein (MIS) and Overall
Evaluation Systein (OES) together witlh capable mianagemenet arid
iTlpleinentation capacities and logistical support.
The Techinical Assistant whio was assigned to design the M & E system1
did rtpt accomplislh that task. Without MIS, implemilentation of M & E
activity be came complicated and resulted it to lag behind in performiance.
Thus the MTR recoinrnended the followinig improvemnemlts on M & E
systelT:
(i)   To re-design and implnlemiienit comlprehienisive MIS for the project.
(ii)   Assure the project impact data (e.g. far rrmers' yields and other
extension related imnpact) are collected, analyzed and reported.
(iii)  Timely availability of logistical support including funds to M & E
uniits for timely submission of thie required reports.
(iv)   Strenglthen the management and imupleimlentation capacities of M
& E staff through appointment of qualified staff and training.
(v)   linproved filing systemT and data base creatiorn.
(vi)  Information sharing and communication across all levels
Actjal Implernentation (1993 - 199G) i:e. After MTR
Following the above MTR recommnenidations concerning M & E system,
the forernost thing agreed was for the project to recruit a short term
consultarit for re-designing the MIS and OES. Thiis however was not
done until NALERP coinpletion. The inforrilation supplied continued to
base on tihe uncompleted MIS designed by the foriner Technical
Assistant. Despite of the above discrepancy, the infornation flow withiin
the project and between thle project and the associated organizations
(such as the IDA, ADB, Planning Commission etc) was satisfactory.
Among those reports included the Annual Work Plan and Budgets
(AWPBs) and quarterly progress reports (see Annex II). The performance
indicators were establishled and monitored regularly.
37



Project Impact Studies:
According to SAR, the M & E systenm had the responsibility for conducting
annual imnpact evaluation (adoption rates and yield) at the end of each
cropping year. Moreover, they were supposed to conduct special case
studies to complement thie above studies. Imiiplementation wise, anilual
impact surveys/yield data surveys were conducted and reported in
periodical progress reports. Moreover, there were three special studies
carried out were three. These were; "An Evaluation of NALERP by
Beneficiaries" carried out in 1995; Farm Budget case study carried out ill
199$ and Assessmenit of tile effect of Retraining prograinmer carried out
in 1992.
9.0   Berieficiar ies
The beeneficiaries of thie NALERP were froriline extension staff and the
farning comninunities especially rural ones where womiieni and youth play a
big role in subsistence farming. Thie NALERP  services hlave reachied
about 2.14 million farmers in sixteen regions. Thie services has resulted
into a streamlined extensioni service capable of timnely responses to
farners' needs.
Dur,ing the implementation some policy and strategies were adopted to
foster research  extension-farmers  linkage  and  coordination  witi
supportive services and other extension providers, sucil as NGOs. Suchi
arranigemenit has resulted inlto cost effective utilization of resources
allocated to agricultural sector development. Thie  National extension
service has been able to effectively deliver technical messages, throughi
the uise of 4113 VEOs, at a ratio of about 745 farmer per VEO; who were
in regular contacts withi farmners to disseminiate recornmendationis. The
production and productivity of both food crops and export crops as well as
livestock enterprises has increased as indicated in Table 4. The project
has therefore raised income and indirectly proving to be. a viable
economic venture for rural labour force (self-employment). Sonie specific
benefits can be higlilited under the following aspects:
Awareness and Adoption rate
The has been significant increase of awareness of imiproved
technological recommendation  and  adoption rate has been
recorded at 67% and 43% for crop and livestock respectively withi
consequence of creating  high demand   for input, efficient
marketing systeiii and other supportive services.
x8



* Iricomne
IllTere are marked chaniges wh icli is above the target set as
indlicated in table 4. For instanice the target were to increase maize
production by 350, 250 and 300 kg/lia in the coast, Western and
Northern Zones respectively; the survey result from these zones
showed an achlievernent of increment by 650, 750 and 465 kg/iha
respectively. Livestock keeper by adopting basic husbandry
measure have reduced mortality rate and hence increase the
'number of animials.
* Diversification
Th-ie use of multidisciplinary fronitlinie staff hlas created a dynamic
envirotirnent for mnany farmilers to diversify their fai-rn enterprises.
The VEOs are now capable to offer both crop and Livestock
extension with com idenlce.
Throghl residerit and on-site farnriners training about 879 fairTmers
recieved traininig on oxenization horticulture irrigation arid post
harvest technology.
Farmers practice horticultural fariniiig (irrigationi )as well as simiall
stock raising during slack period and ackowledge considerable
nutritional arid income imnprove.
Institutionalization of Research-Extenision -Farmers linikage has
miade it possible for the developrment of appropriate packages for
difrerent agro-ecological Zones basing on farners priorities. Also
the emphasis on group approach has facilitated the promiotion of
Indigerious Knowledge.
Mortality rate
Imimpact assessmiient revealed that, about 50%  livestock keepers
had adopted basic animal lhusbandry practices due to increased
contacts with extension staff for extension advices.
Such husbandry practice included improved housing, feeding plami,
improved calf rearing, parasites and disease control anid breed
improvement through selection or cross breeding. The mortality
rate for calves, local chicken and shoats has been reduced from
over 85% to a range of 15 to 25%.
39



Mechanization
Through residential fariners' traininrg in collaboration withi NGOs,
research and specifically Farmiing System Research it has been
possible to introduce and or prornote oxenization in order to reduce
draggery of land village and weedinig.  For instance Farmiing
System Research Lake Zone, were able to develop a prototype
weeder which could be manufactured locally and affordable by
farmers.
'Agriculture Mordernisation:
Modernisation of agriculture though depenedent on a coimbination of
various factors such as input supply, marketing system, credit and
otlhers, extension services are important to achiieve such a target.
Mordenisation of the agriculture sector in terms of more capital
investment and development,  rnachine and irrigation is taking
place mainly due to promising profitability potential shiown by
hiiglher productivity of farm enterprises by adopters. Farmers are
seeking advanced technology for integration of farm enterprises
e.g Biogas plants. Farmiers recognize the importance of market
infornation froin various source like extension staff, attendinig
agricultural shows, field days and publications.
.Sustainability:
Thle NALERP has been able to institute orofessionalisin among extensioln
staff through various traininrg. The achievement were at MSC 6, shurt
courses 63 for Management (IDM), 15 overseas, TOT 114 and study tuurs
106. The training has equipped local human resource with skills and
knowledge to carry on extension service tlhrough a streamnlined
organizational structure. On the other hand a coordination instrumenit
"Policy guideline for extension Provider' has beeni adopted natidnal wide
by extension providers including NGOs. The policy guideline facilitate
rational and wise use of scarce resources at the disposal of the Extension
Service.
Tile on going economic reforms encourage bottoin up initiatives; where
the introduction of PRA and group approach creates an conducive
environment for farming community to exploit this opportunity.
Sustainability of agriculture itself has been addressed by the use of
technologies which safeguard the delicate balance of agro-e co systems.
*.10



Aspects of sound integrated pest management (IPM) practices are being
extended, for instance in Shinyanga cotton farmers do practice pest
counting to minimise the use of pesticides. Practices on soil and water
conservation, use of organic fertilizer/manure have been adopted by
farners.
Women and youth being the majority of work-force in farming have been
the cominoni contact persons either in groups or individually.
Gender-based extension messages have been developed and promoted
to reflect their important role in farning systern. Women's contact groups
fosterconfidence and peer pressure among rural women to take a leading
role for technology adoption and income distribution. T'he nunber of
fernale extension workers comprises 12%  of all extension staff in
Tanzania. The number might be higlher if we include those working for
various international and local prograrns promoting women involveinent in
developmz1ental issues such as Heifer project for Dairy Productioni, sm1all
stock (goats), oil press inachines, flrlits and, vegetable preservation
technology, etc.
Table 4: Farners performance in terms of production.
COASTAL AREA            1987188 (kg/Ha)    1 99G/97
i_Lkg/Ha)   l
Maize                   550               1200
Cashewnuts              150               650
Cassava                 1300              19100
Rice                    1100              1000
Milk (Indig. Covv)lts/dy  -               2.5
Egg(Local                                 45
chicken)eggs/yr
WESTERN/CENTRAL
Maize                   750               1500
Sorghum/Millet          550               i00
Cotton                  350               650
Milk(lndig. cow) Its/dy  -                3.5
Eggs(Local                                47
Checken)eggs/ yr 
NORTHERN
41



APPENDIX 3
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1994-TZ)
MISCELLANEOUS TABLES



OAA
(                        I(                ..IVf ( I
' NI ~~~.V&L )INI
I  _ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IIVI  0R)1    (I'IV.) .INI         Wl5111:
11 RBNN:
Il \}l_!l'lEl:l'lS I *lI.tNIZI,I g    }~~~~~~~i
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               ,



r.  NA'TI'ONAL EXTENSION SElRVICE
.... t, 
PIIYSICAL CUMIULATIVE ACIIIEVEM ENT AT NALEII' COMP'LE TION
cpmtrup L   NrsOts(wrsvrrr1Es                   Unait NIcan.nrc    :tilt. TI'agct     AV. CEumant1.AdW1k  ~  klge Ctttllitt
* INSrRril'T1ON BUILING                                                               Fiv [990i              lh.
Numier of village reaiced                       Nuuiiber                      19003                 3680                 77
Niuiaibr of' rhtuner reacited                   Nttilicer                 2800UUU                214000U                 75
Numitcr of active VEos                          Number                        41 1.                 3319                 g0
'!I  Number ofactive DiVEOs                         Number                         5S3                    583                10U
Nutiiber of  niaers groups per VEO              Numoiber                     16-241                    9                 46
Numbirct of'Adoption plots(copilives.)          Nuielicr                   221320                 14U909                 64
Supervision bv lleadcliantcrs stall'            Coveragc     _                 iIU                    34                 341
Supervisicnt by Rcgional tar                    Cveragee                       IUU                    50                 SO
Sulervision bv Vistrict sttdr                   C'overa1e"                     10t)                   42                 42
Sstpen'isiotn by ViVC(s                                                        IOvcrUge%  i00         54                 54
Motlyt Traillitig Session (NUU'S)               Sesions                      39(16                   364                 S1
B3i-Nluntisily Wotksaiop                        Scssions                        96                    69                 72
UiVIE; hottse constructioll                     Nnttitlcr                      141                    47                 3t
Inlittltos Rchabiliilatioll                     Numbher Iimt.                    4                     4                10U
RESARMCII-EXlENSION LINKAGE
Rcsearc Co-ordinatuig itieeting                  Iccillng' 6                                                             67
Natioul 'crscason I'latminz                     \V4St1ohp                        I                      I               100
Nalional Technical Vomniiilee                  ,Mccling.l                        2                      I                so
lJonlols Conifetecnce                           Numbics Tot.                                           2                 PJ
National Agricultuie Show                       Shows (oTI'l)                    5                     4                 S0
S Al;FF TlrALINING_
Re- ITtanilrm                                  I'clsons (Tut.                21J 1                  1l44I6               69
RetiesherTru r                                  Pevsoull (Tot.                 210                   i 14               5S'
Relresher Miliagemlieilt                        Persolts (Tol.                 12U                    63                 52
Comuter 'rai;ug                                 Cunllscs                        [4)                    4                 40
OVERSMIS                                                                            ___
PosI (Jradualc                                  Pcisolls (';lt.                 33                    1 6                50
StiUdY 'outs                                    ToLi,s (rui)                   I OU                  I Ul)              106
ShortIt Courscs                                 CL,urscs (Tot.                  26                    i5                 57
FARIt ERtS EDUcATIrN & PUBLICITl'Y                                                 _
Radio Progranunes                               No. Ptogtanlttte               20S                   208                100
UookleLt                                        Titles                           7                     4                 28
E.xtension News Letter                          Issttes        _f                                                        83
Maumners Maganzitles                            Issucs                           6                     3                 50
Leatiets                                        Titles                         It)                     6                 60
I'osters                                        Titles           _               4                     4                100
Video Episodes                                  kpistdcs                       [U                     10                100)
Video Shows                                     Shows                           72                    72                 60
Residential armiersl'rainiitg                  I'cPrsows                        65                    65                 20
M.NIONUIORING & EVELUArION                     _                                                               __ _
Yietl/Adoptioni Rate Survev                     Study t Itai)                    6                     3                 50
Loeistics Inventoty Study                       Sludv (I'utal)                   2  _                                    50
ANwrB Reviev Workshops                          \V/Shop                     _       _                                   100
Special (Case) Studies                          Sludv (Total)                    4                     3                 75
rEC'liiL ASSISrANT r
Exictsion Nielisodolog Specialist               Ycars (I'Ial)                    2                     2 _   _          10(1
Financial Specialist                            Ycats ( i'ulal)                  2                     7               350
Procuremient Specialist                        Yers (Tulal)                    1.5                    1.5               100
honitoring & Evaluation Specialist              Years ('ot11)                    2                     2                IOU
1  iI
,1t.                                                                 44
It



' t;'exII
*             Lt .iSexistedi Ri &    IT 1It.ports and Frequeniccy of Rteporting
I ypc of RIepjort                 Frlequency    Mlea:nis of lPreparationi    Coiiselilieig of
ill tile Y:er                                  til_ lie Rtelort
Aniniual Woik Plrogramiis         Onicc           Asseibldb lcli                 II:)NAUB
t ii'   (AWI's)                                  (district/  dRegio onal
'.::>"                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~extensionl tar,gels UiSillg
Wo rk Programis tables
f; .                                     ~~~~~~~('NP4 &                  ____________
Quarterly Ilrogiress Report    Four               Stpliplied oti  NALI.lRP'      IDA/AUB
P'rogress leloi t T'ables
('tRTIi, 4 and(l 5) by
divisional, district alld
;regional extelsioln
______________________________                     ollices.
Aniniual Action Plan              Omice           Supplied on NlOi\              NIOAJPl a.0nlnimmg
standard(I floniis            Coiimmissioni/
IKILIM1O/APl (Action          'ITr easury
_Plan).
Quarterly l'rogress Reports   Fuur                Using Ni 0A standard           NIOiVPlannintg
foIs 1(1s ILIM10/1'PR  I to    Commiiilissioni/
7. Th1e souir ce of dlata is   Ireasurv
;________ _________ _________      _________        thlle   N A l ..ER P   'R T   5.
S1up1ervisioull ReCprs            Several         lfutilmationi cullected by   IProject linie
I IQ stairsuLpcrvisionl       mnallagelllent
visits to project rcgiulls.
M1 &  E reports                   l'criodic       Data fioii NALERIP             Project liine
Pi'R' R   forms, surveys      management!/
conducted in tile regiotis   Donors/NI & E
and supervision reports.    Unlits.
I.i
45
' ;'



TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1994-TZ)
ANNEX 3
YIELDS AND PRODUCTION OF MAJOR SMALLHOLDER CROPS



Tanzania - Yields of Major Smaliholder
Crops
|Three Year Moving Averages)
[- -4__ _I_E
| Q                       _                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I CASSAVA
30.f     _                             .-N          --   ;   -crs 
Tanzania - Production of Major
Smaliholder Crops
(Three Year Moving Averages3
1.4
1.2
*eI  '~ 3- >                                          _.-IS.A
St                                                                                            -; -,SCGHUM
~-CASSAVA
-                                                                                       -S 4,-   --SEANS  CRY
0.4
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995     1996      7
Soures: fAOSTAT 'Vild Agnoibir llnfortnhCoE Cenwe



IBRD 29617
i1             U  G  AN  D  A                            !D
-1  - - - -BUKOBA   ,L_     -USeMA;< - -                                                                                                  l         PROJECT YEAR I
'PBUKOBA           UESOMAE~          N
// RWANDA             s  j.             ,.<aSeXkMARA                                                            K    E    N       Y    A                                                             PROJECT YEAR II
-,( j                   .,o                                                            I; . N                                                     rI                                                    P PROJECT YEAR 111
j j KAGERA    ~MAZ                RAZ                                         o~oN
ov t-  ,<                                                                   S             (  i  W  fkWANZv / LoWAoo, NZA                                                                               PROJECT YEAR V
Z  BURUNDI <\    |-v                          ,oodo                                              H
o       \,           KIGOMA K     ybolirof   7             Nzeg Oz      Bft$ \   hlwedukonAF '-                                                                                                   r       PROJECT YEAR V
o       7    M V_ 1 f ,, .I6-          I                             -4  , 60060_/. < su.,t8
W                                                   S                  SINOIANKon
tY \ Lj4i        LUviozo a IdWoloSor    OKolioo  TARORAJ        0< ;                          /                     \TAP! 4G        AGAWEE                                                          UNDER PAD
E '                                             ,,                                                                                       TANDA -ETJ
oI      | @                                  k_6<3 TAOR                           /OOiR  ip,-O* O                                  Pb ES SAETE CIT --S INENTOANL TOWNDAIS
0                        OMA                               Nz..                   , /    7                                                                                                                P O /  J HECT  PEAR  VsIc,
| -u                                                                     4u                   12                                RO   CAPITALS
(L                                                I   SI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NGIA                                 TAt4Gd
DO  OMA                                                                                             REG~~~ZAZIAR*  AIONA CAPITALS
)  Mpooopo00          [~~~ OIoIoo'B~~~  0BoZANZIBARRNAIONAL RCNARITAL
/ w                    ,h.h,          D 'ARRESSALAAMREINLBUDIS
MOROGRO   ~~y DR ES SALAAM
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
/                    I61~~~~        ~           ~~ood  CHAD                                       DIOT
Ioro   I   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       -~~~SUA    ETHIOPIA   7.SOMALIA
/  '0                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL       3 
-            Moheo9~~~~   / /                K/zoo M060k0 K/zoo Kivinie ~~~~~~~~~AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
Z  A  M  B                                                                                                             (D                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGANDA)
F                                                   0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/               /  KENYA~
D0 EM REP
T A   N  Z A   N   I A                                                                                            LIONO NADP'>                                                          <
TINDI0                                  ~~~~~~~~~~BURUNDI,'
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK                                                                                                                  MTFWARA                                            iANZANIAN
EXTENSION REHABILITATION PROJECT (NALERP)                                                                                            oM-i              /zoOR
COVERAGE BY REGION                                                                                              MonIzTAA'-
.30   003        300         00 KILOMETERS                                                                                                       A N G 0,,,A ANMOLA
______________________________  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  "0ALAWI~~~?ALWIM
Th.,o .op'Lov-oM,-0,,        T,O 0TO,,   -'00-                                                                                                                                                  Z AM BI A_  5,. 
IT-     ..vo,-k    z,I gh wo                                                                                                                                                  MOZAMBIOUE
Z A M B I Q U E  ~           ~           ~           y-~.~-MADAGASCAR
06               00                   12 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNE WE99



