Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1994 TA
          (National Agricultural and Livestock Extension
                      Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 8, 1989
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  May  8,  1989,  between  UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has contracted from the African Development
Fund (AfDF) a loan  (the  AfDF  Loan)  in  an amount equivalent to
7,080,000 Fund Units of Account to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions  set  forth  in an agreement (the AfDF
Loan Agreement) to be entered  into between the Borrower and AfDF;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Sub-Account" means the  sub-account  to be opened under
the Special Account  for  the  financing  out  of  the  Credit of
eligible local expenditures, as set  forth  in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
     (c)  "MALD" means the Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development;
     (d)  "DisEO" means a District Extension Officer;
     (e)  "DEO" means a Division Extension Officer;
     (f)  "ACES" means  the  Assistant  Commissioner for Extension
Services in MALD;
     (g)  "FSR" means the Farming Systems Research Program;
     (h)  "SMS"  means  a  subject  matter  specialist  within the
Extension Service;
     (i)  "MIS" means the  Extension Management Information System
under the Project;
     (j)  "OES"  means  an  Overall  Evaluation  System  under the
Project;
     (k)  "Special  Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the two
Special Advances granted by  the  Bank  to  the Borrower under the
Special Project  Preparation  Facility  pursuant  to  exchanges of
letters between the Borrower and the Bank dated July 14, 1986, and
August 4, 1986, and October 29, 1987, and December 1, 1987;
     (l)  "TSh" means Tanzania Shillings, the Borrower's currency;
and
     (m)  "Project Area" means the  area  covered by the following
regions,  Tabora,  Singida,   Dodoma,  Kagera,  Rukwa,  Shinyanga,
Kilimanjaro, Mtwara, Lindi, Mwanza, Morogoro and Arusha.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various currencies equivalent to thirteen
million   seven   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 13,700,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
Page  3
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in a  currency  acceptable to the Association, a
special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.  Deposits  into,  and payments out of,
the Special Account shall  be  made  in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 5  to  this  Agreement.  The Borrower shall, for
purposes of financing eligible  local expenditures, open and main-
tain in TSh, a sub-account of  the Special Account in a local com-
mercial  bank  on  terms   and   conditions  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the  Bank  the  amount  required to repay the principal
amount of the  Special  Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Special
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be March 31, 1997, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing  August  15,  1999,   and  ending  February  15,  2029.
Each installment  to  and  including  the  installment  payable on
February  15, 2009, shall  be  one  percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
Page  4
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The  currency  of  the  United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is  hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its Ministry of  Agriculture  and  Livestock  Development with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural and livestock extension
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within MALD, an
Extension Unit to  be  headed  by  the  Assistant Commissioner for
Extension Services.
     (b)  The Borrower shall consult with the Association prior to
making any material changes to  the  status and terms of reference
of EU and ACES.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  until September 30,
1989, maintain its present estabishment for the Extension Service;
(b) by September 30, 1989,  furnish to the Association the revised
establishment for the Extension  Service in accordance with MALD's
new structure; and  (c)  thereafter  maintain the establishment at
that level, with  the  recruitment  of  extension staff from fresh
diploma/certificate holders being offset by attrition.
     Section  3.05.  The  Borrower  shall  annually  increase  the
budgetary allocations  for  agricultural  and  livestock extension
over the levels provided in 1987/1988 fiscal year, to cover annual
costs as agreed in the annual work program.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account and the Sub-Account for each fiscal
               year audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
               ing principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that:
     (a)  Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
          (i)  the right of the  Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
               of the  AfDF  Loan  made  to  the  Borrower for the
Page  6
               financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
               cancelled or terminated in  whole  or in part, pur-
               suant  to  the  terms  of  the  agreement providing
               therefor; or
         (ii)  AfDF Loan shall have  become  due and payable prior
               to the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)  Subparagraph (a) of this  paragraph  shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes  to  the  satisfaction of the Association
that: (i) such suspension,  cancellation, termination or prematur-
ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement;  and (ii) adequate funds for
the Project are available  to  the  Borrower from other sources on
terms  and  conditions  consistent  with  the  obligations  of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions,  the  following  additional  event  is  specified, the
events specified in paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of  Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur,  subject  to  the  proviso of paragraph (b)
(ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the AfDF Loan, other than the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment, have been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and Planning
          P.O. Box 9111
          Dar es Salaam
          United Republic of Tanzania
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                TREASURY                         41329
                Dar es Salaam
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Page  7
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                          By /s/ a. M. Hyera
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Vehicles                    4,000,000       100%
(2)  Training                    2,300,000       100% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                1,480,000       100%
     services
(4)  Project                     4,240,000       100% of local
     recurrent                                   expenditures
     operating                                   up to an aggre-
     costs                                       gate amount of
                                                 SDR 2,200,000;
                                                 95% of additional
                                                 local expendi-
                                                 tures up to
                                                 an aggregate
                                                 additional amount
                                                 of SDR 800,000;
                                                 80% of additional
                                                 local expendi-
                                                 tures up to an
                                                 additional aggre-
                                                 gate amount of
                                                 SDR 700,000 and
                                                 55% of additional
                                                 local expendi-
                                                 tures thereafter
Page  8
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Refunding of                  270,000       Amount due pursuant
     Special Project                             to Section 2.02 (c)
     Preparation Advance                         of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 1,410,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  13,700,000
2.   For the purposes of  this  Schedule  the term "local expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the  currency  of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to  implement the first
phase of developing an  efficient,  cost effective and sustainable
agricultural extension service in Tanzania.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Establishment of  a  streamlined  organization and management
structure for extension services  within  MALD,  based on a single
chain of command from headquarters to the field.
Part B:
1.   Introduction of an extension system based on the Training and
Visit extension methodology.
2.   Provision of training,  and  supervision of extension activi-
ties conducive  to  the  establishment  of  an  efficient delivery
system to enhance  adoption  of  improved  technologies by Project
participants.
Part C:
1.   Enhancement of MALD's  extension  planning and implementation
capacity through the provision of technical assistance in specific
fields.
2.   Preparation of the second phase  of the rehabilitation of the
agricultural and livestock extension services.
Part D:
1.   Construction and upgrading  of  about  300  staff houses, and
rehabilitation of training facilities.
2.   Provision  through  sales  on  credit  to  village  extension
workers of about  5,400  bicycles  and  to  extension officers and
monitoring and evaluation  enumerators  of  about 575 motorcycles;
provision for use by  higher-level  extension officers of about 97
four-wheel drive vehicles and related equipment and materials.
Page  9
                           *     *     *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent  practicable,  contracts  for vehicles shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Tanzania may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated  to  cost less than the equiva-
lent of $100,000 each, may be  awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Vehicle, spare parts  and  equipment  estimated  to cost less
than the equivalent of  $20,000  per  contract  up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the  equivalent  of $250,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quota-
tions solicited from a list  of  at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines in  accordance  with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Page  10
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and  conditions  of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the  Association.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for the Use of Con-
sultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Commissioner  for  Agriculture  and Livestock Development
within  MALD  shall  be  responsible  for  Project implementation,
management, planning,  budgeting,  monitoring  and  evaluation. He
shall be assisted by the ACES. The ACES shall ensure that:
     (a)  an  adequate  field  organization  structure,  including
Regional  and  District  Agricultural  and  Livestock  Development
Officers, Regional and District Extension Officers, Subject Matter
Specialists, a Division  Extension  Officer  and Village Extension
Workers, is set up, and  a  unified line of command is established
and functioning between the field and headquarters;
     (b)  adequate coordination is  established between the exten-
sion system and other activities and institutions dealing with the
agricultural sector;
     (c)  relevant annual and long-term planning and budgeting, as
well as bi-annual progress reports are prepared;
     (d)  planned extension rehabilitation  activities are carried
out; and
     (e)  monitoring and  evaluation  results  are  utilized  as a
management tool.
2.   Until  completion  of  the  Project,  MALD's  Management Team
chaired by  the  Principal  Secretary  and  comprising the Commis-
sioners for Agriculture  and  Livestock  Development, Planning and
Marketing,  Research  and   Training,   Manpower  Development  and
Administration and Chief  Accountant,  shall  provide broad policy
directives,  establishment  of   priorities,  approval  of  annual
program and budgets, and  supervision  of coordination between the
extension system  and  other  activities  and institutions dealing
with the agricultural sector.  The  Management  Team shall meet at
least once a quarter for this purpose.
3.   To  ensure  linkages  between  extension  and  research,  the
Borrower shall:
     (a)  nominate  specific  liaison  officers,  and  establish a
detailed schedule  of  regular  coordination  and contacts between
research and extension workers. Whenever  an FSR activity is going
on in a district, the research-extension liaison officer, would be
seconded to the FSR. However, until the FSR covers all the Project
Area, wherever a  region  and/or  district  coincides with a zonal
research and training  center,  and/or  a national research insti-
Page  11
tute, a senior extension-research  liaison  officer would be nomi-
nated and posted to the relevant extension office;
     (b)  ensure  that   the   research-extension  liason  officer
participates in FSR  program  planning  at  the zonal level, helps
with selection  of  sites  and  farmers  for  on-farm  trials, and
arranges with extension staff for the supervision of a part of the
adaptive trials that research staff may not be able to cover;
     (c)  ensure  that  both  types  of  liason  officers organize
regular monthly workshops at which  the FSR team and/or such other
research specialists, as may be  needed, shall meet with extension
SMSs and  extension  staff  supervisors.  During  these workshops,
extension staff shall be  trained  by research personnel, and pro-
vided with the latest  research recommendations for advisory work,
and  extension  staff  shall  acquaint  researchers  with problems
encountered, which may need to be investigated; and
     (d)  ensure that  an  annual  research-extension  workshop be
held at zonal  research  stations,  including  senior research and
extension staff  and  farmers'  representatives  at  the time when
research program planning takes place  to:  (i) ensure an input by
farmers and the extension  service  in planning the zonal research
program; (ii) plan the seasonal  extension timetable and timing of
the regular research/extension workshops; and (iii) set up the on-
farm trials program.
4.   (a)  The ACES shall prepare  annual work programs to organize
the implementation of agricultural and livestock extension activi-
ties in the Project  Area,  and to supervise their implementation,
taking the Association's comments  into  account. Such annual work
programs shall include:
          (i)  a  review  of  implementation  of  agricultural and
               livestock extension activities  during the previous
               year;
         (ii)  a detailed description of work to be carried out in
               the forthcoming  year  including  objectives, staff
               and  farmers  training,  monitoring  and evaluation
               activities,  deployment  of  staff  and  equipment,
               construction plans and procurement schedules;
        (iii)  requirements for additional staff;
         (iv)  requirements   and   arrangements   for   technical
               assistance and training; and
          (v)  a budget and financing plan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, commencing 1990, furnish such annual
work program to  the  Association  by  March  1  each year for its
review and comments. The first  such  annual work program shall be
furnished to the Association by November 30, 1989.
     (c)  The Borrower shall by  not  later than three years after
the Effective Date undertake,  under  terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association,  an  implementation review of the Project
with the Association and AfDF.
     (d)  The Borrower, during the  fifth year after the Effective
Date, prepare terms of  reference satisfactory to the Association,
for the preparation of the  second  phase of the rehabilitation of
the extension services.
5.   The Borrower  shall  introduce  a  Monitoring  and Evaluation
System which shall comprise  an  MIS  and  an OES for the Project.
Detailed design and implementation  schedules  of  the MIS and OES
shall be furnished to  the  Association  for comments and approval
not later than six months after credit effectiveness.
6.   (a)  The Commissioner for  Agriculture and Livestock Develop-
Page  12
ment shall, inter alia, be  responsible  for setting up and imple-
menting  national  extension  policies  and  strategies  aimed  at
coordinating activities carried  out  under different projects and
this Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  during the  first  year  of Project implementation,
               design   extension   strategies   and  coordination
               policies and  mechanisms,  discuss  and  agree upon
               them with  the  Association  and  other  donors and
               include them in the first annual work program; and
         (ii)  initiate during the  second  year of Project imple-
               mentation, the coordination of extension activities
               in on-going agricultural development projects.
7.   The Borrower shall include  in  its first annual work program
for the Project:
     (a)  a new  certificate  training  program,  at the Livestock
Training Institutes and Agricultural Training Institutes; and
     (b)  the scope of future  training  in such institutes in the
various disciplines.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
Page  13
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other  evidence.  The Special Account shall not
be replenished on account  of  deposits  made into the Sub-Account
unless the  proceeds  of  such  deposits  have  been  used to make
payments for eligible expenditures.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures. In  addition  to  such  documents, when the
Borrower requests replenishment of  the  Special Account for funds
deposited into the Sub-Account  which have already been disbursed,
the Borrower shall also furnish to the Association, prior to or at
the time of  such  request,  the  bank  statements  of the Special
Account and the Sub-Account.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated  to  the  eligible  Categories,   less  the  amount  of  any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the Credit
Account of the remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible  Categories  shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall  specify  by  notice  to  the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account  shall  be  made  until  the  Borrower  has  provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Page  14
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
