Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 2243 1-UNI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 78.60 MILLION
(US$100.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
TRANSMISSION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 15, 2001
Energy Team
Infrastructure Group
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (N)
1 Naira = US$0.0088
US$1 = Ns 114
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPE          Bureau of Public Enterprises
DisCos       Distribution Companies
EA           Environmental Assessment
EMP          Environmental Mitigation Plan
EMS          Energy Management System
EPIC         Electric Power Sector Reform Implementation Committee
EPP          Emergency Power Project
ERSU         Environment, Resettlement and Social Unit
FGN          Federal Government of Nigeria
FMF          Federal Ministry of Finance
FMPS         Federal Ministry of Power and Steel
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IPP          Independent Power Producers
MIS          Management Information System
NCC          National Control Center
NCP          National Council on Privatization
NEPA         National Electric Power Authority
NERC         Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission
PMU          Project Management Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PSP          Privatization Support Project
SCADA        Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SIL          Specific Investment Loan
SNCC         Supplementary National Control Center
TA           Technical Assistance
TDP          Transmission Development Project
TOR          Terms Of Reference
TransysCo    Transmission and System Operation Company
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Mark D. Tomlinson
Sector Manager:   Ananda Covindassamy
Team Leader:   Junhui Wu



NIGERIA
TRANSMISSION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                          7
3. Benefits and target population                                                         7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                          8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                   12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                      13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              14
2. Financial                                                                             15
3. Technical                                                                            20
4. Institutional                                                                         20
5. Environmental                                                                         21
6. Social                                                                               23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       25
2. Critical risks                                                                       26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                        27



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           28
2. Other Agreements reached with the Borrower, and NEPA                              28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  41
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities                          48
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      62
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    70
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           74
Annex 11: Overview of the Power Sector and Planned Reforns                              76
Annex 12: Financial Management Action Plan                                              82
Annex 13: Organizational Chart of the NEPA Project Management Unit (PMU)                86
Annex 14: Summary of Inplementation Schedule for Supply and Installation                87
Annex 15: Summary of Implementation Schedule for Consultants                            88
MAP(S)
IBRD 31357



NIGERIA
Transmission Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTEG
Date: June 15, 2001                               Team Leader: Junhui Wu
Country Manager/Director: Mark D. Tomlinson       Sector Manager/Director: M. Ananda Covindassamy
Project ID: P072018                               Sector(s): PD - Distribution & Transmission
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Energy
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    ( ] Grant     [ Guarantee!        Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 100
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                                Local        Foreign          Total
NEPA                                                           10.35           3.00         13.35
IDA                                                             0.00         100.00        100.00
Total:                                                         10.35         103.00        113.35
Borrower: FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
Responsible agency: NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY, MINISTRY OF POWER & STEEL
Address: Plot 441, Zambezi Crescent, Maitama, Abuja, Nigeria
Contact Person: Engr. J. 0. Makoju, Managing Director, NEPA
Tel: (234-9) 234-7727           Fax: (234-9) 234-7728          Email: mdnepa@alpha.linserve.com
Address: Federal Secretariat Complex, Abuja, Nigeria
Contact Person: Honorable Minister Olusegun Agagu, Federal Ministry of Power and Steel
Tel: (234-9) 523-7064          Fax: (234-9) 523-6652           Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005   1  2006
Annual    6.00       35.00      40.00      15.00       4.00
Cumulative    6.00       41.00      81.00      96.00    100.00
Project implementation period: 6 years (2001-2006)
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
XCS PAD FTf R   MT, 20



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To support the Federal Government of Nigeria's (FGN) overall program of power sector reform and
privatization by addressing the requirements of the transmission and dispatch sub-sectors, specifically
through: (i) facilitating NEPA unbundling; (ii) establishing a transparently-regulated, financially-viable,
commercially-operated Transmission and System Operation Company (TransysCo) with private
participation; (iii) removing transmission network and system operation constraints on provision of reliable
power supply; and (iv) facilitating development of an efficient wholesale power market to improve the
long-term performance of the power sector.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
1. The TransysCo is financially viable and able to attract commercial financing.
2. Open access to, and use of, transmission systems for generators, distributors and large industrial
consumers.
3. Electricity wholesale settlement system developed and operational.
4. Increased transmission reliability (unplanned interruption hours per 100 km per year reduced from 80
to 42 at 330 kV, and from 210 to 120 at 132 kV between year 2001 and 2006).
5. Reduced transmission losses (from 10.7% to 4.0% at 330 kV and from 12.0% to 8.0% at 132 kV
between year 2001 and 2006).
6. The Environment, Resettlement and Social Unit (ERSU) established and fully operational within the
TransysCo.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA-R2001-0081          Date of latest CAS discussion: June 14, 2001
The proposed project supports two goals of the joint interim Country Strategy Update: privatization and
improved infrastructure.
Privatization.  Privatization of the power sector is a key element of both the Government and World
Bank strategies. An efficient transmission network and a fully functional control system are
prerequisites for private participation in power generation, distribution and supply to customers.
Improved infrastructure.  The project targets investment in a segment of power infrastructure
which is not likely to attract private sector investment in the near-term, but which is a critical part of
the power supply system.
The project also supports the joint interim Country Strategy Update emphasis on capacity building: training
and skills development for staff in the TransysCo will be a high priority.
The primary vehicle for Bank assistance in power sector reform and privatization is the Privatization
Support Project (PSP), which was approved by the Board on June 14, 2001. The proposed Transmission
Development Project (TDP) is structured and processed as a complement to the overall sector reform
program.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
The National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) was created in 1972 as the vertically-integrated utility
responsible for the power sector in Nigeria. NEPA developed new electricity generating capacity during
the I 970s and 1980s in both hydropower and thermal power. Presently, its installed power generation
capacity is over 5,000 MW. However, about half of this capacity is non-operational. Until this past year,
none of the generation units had ever had a major overhaul. Throughout the 1990s NEPA had been unable
to meet a simultaneous peak demand on its system of more than 2,500 MW.
The power system suffers from low generating plant availability and high outages on the transmission and
distribution networks. Seven out of nine total system collapses in 1999 were directly caused by
transmission faults. The National Control Center (NCC) is barely functional. Persistent and frequent
blackouts on NEPA's system have been the norm for many years. Consequently huge numbers of
industrial, commercial and residential establishments run their own power generators which produce
electricity at high cost to themselves and to the Nigerian economy.
The power sector is also characterized by high energy losses (30-35% from generation to billings), a low
collection rate (in the range of 75-80%), and low access to electricity by the populace (about 36%).
Inadequate tariffs and gross inefficiencies in operations over the years have led to inadequate internal cash
generation. The utility is heavily dependent on fuel subsidies and funding of capital projects by the
Government. In 2000, the Government financial support to NEPA amounted to about US$400 million, or
13% of the total FGN capital expenditure.
In March 2000 the President of the Federation removed the top layers of NEPA's management and
appointed a nine-member Technical Board reporting directly to him. The Board has two mandates: (i) To
bring about a significant improvement in power supply in the short-term (specifically, by end-2001 at least
4000 MW of generation capacity must be in operation); and (ii) To prepare NEPA for privatization. The
Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) is the agency responsible for carrying out the privatization of the
power sector.
Government Strategy to Address Main Sector Issues
(i) Sector restructurine. reform and privatization.  The new power policy approved by the Federal
Executive Council in March 2001 defines the framework for sector restructuring, privatization and
independent regulation. NEPA will be unbundled into generation, transmission and distribution.
Transmission will initially remain under state ownership:; the rest of the power sector will be privatized. A
draft of the new electricity law has been circulated for comment. The law is expected to be submitted to
the National Assembly in September 2001.
(ii) Short-term improvement in electricity supply.  Uninterrupted power supply is perceived by the
Nigerian public as a major tangible result expected as part of the "democracy dividend". The main
elements of the Government strategy to significantly improve power supply in the short-term include: (i)
Generation. FGN-funded rehabilitation is the major focus of the effort to reach the 4000 MW target by the
end of 2001. This is complemented by plans to involve the private sector (discussed further in Annex 11);
- 3 -



(ii) System Control. Interim measures are aimed at providing NEPA with a minimum reliable data
collection and control system to operate the power network, including rehabilitation and enhancement of the
conimunication systems and making the Supplementary National Control Center (SNCC) functional; (iii)
Transmission. FGN funding has been allocated for rehabilitation of over 30 transmission substations.
Many of the required transformers have already been purchased and tenders are out for switch gear and
other related equipment; (iv) Anti-vandalism. A program has been initiated, and repair of vandalized lines
is ongoing; (v) Distribution. A number of 132/33 kV transformers have been secured to improve the
capacity of 38 substations which serve as the distribution injection points; (vi) Revenue Generation. A
customer population census and registration is underway. A program for private sector participation in
billing and collection will be started in 2001.
(iii) Financial viability of the sector. The weighted average tariff is about 3.2 USc/kWh, i.e. about half
of the cost of supply, and well below the long run marginal cost (about USc 6.5/kWh). The tariff structure
is skewed such that industry provides a substantial subsidy to residential customers. NEPA collects
payment for only about 50% of energy sent out. A sector sustainable financial plan was approved by the
FGN in April 2001. The plan includes a schedule for tariff increase linked to improvement in power
supply, private participation in billing and collection to improve revenue collection, mechanisms for the
prompt settlement of Government's electricity bills, reduction of staff and operation costs, and a short-term
FGN subsidy.
(iv) Electricity access. At present, Government seeks to expand electricity access by electrifying all
local government headquarters. To date, 565 of the 774 local governmuent headquarters are connected.
This approach alone might not be sufficient to maximize the economic benefit of the investments. Under
the PSP, a comprehensive Rural Energy Policy and Strategy will be developed.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i) Fundamental institutional change to support privatization
The proposed project supports power sector privatization through the creation of a new TransysCo as
NEPA is unbundled. Both physical investment and institutional development are needed to ensure that
transmission and system control services will be up to the standard necessary to attract the private sector to
invest in generation and distribution.
Strategic Choice: Delay Bank financing of investment until "irreversible" progress in reform is achieved,
or provide Bank financing for urgent rehabilitation in combination with institutional change. The latter
option was selected because delays in upgrading the transmission and control system could significantly
delay the overall sector restructuring and privatization. A secure source of financing will help ensure that
the required rehabilitation and upgrades will be completed as fast as possible.
(ii) Financial viability of the power sector
At the request of NEPA, the project is directly supporting tariff adjustment (through technical assistance
under the PPF for preparation of an interim retail tariff adjustment plan) and improved revenue collection
(through PPF-funded technical assistance in preparing the Request For Proposal (RFP) for private
participation in billing and collections).
-4-



Strategic Choice: Require a tariff increase before credit effectiveness or move forward on the basis of a
Government commitment to increase the average tariff as service improves. Considering the erratic, poor
quality of supply, it was agreed that tariff increases should be linked to improvements in the supply. A
target of 3000 MW (corresponding to the estimated current demand) has been set as the level at which
FGN would be prepared to support the first tariff increase. NEPA expects to meet the generation target in
August 2001.
(iii) Short-term improvement in electricity supply
Most system collapses (seven out of nine in 1999) are directly caused by transmission faults. Inadequate
system operation and control results in huge waste of hydro resources (e.g. the spillage at Kainji reached
1506 GWh versus its total generation of 2377 GWh in 1999). Also, there are a number of substation
bottlenecks causing restrictions at the transmission/distribution interface. These bottlenecks will become
problematic when generation constraints are eased. The proposed program is an essential complement to
the efforts already underway to restore generation capacity. Without improved transmission facilities and
dispatching/control systems, success in improving generation will not translate into improved power
supply.
Strategic Choice: Investment in rehabilitation / reinforcement only, or new lines and substations. To
ensure that the existing investment is efficiently used and to expedite the effectiveness of the credit (in
particular to avoid the lengthy process of properly addressing resettlement and environment issues that
might arise in connection with new lines), no new lines or substations are included in the project scope.
(iv) Long-term sector structure: imnplementing a power market
The attention of most stakeholders in the Nigerian power sector is focused on resolving the current power
crisis and the impending privatization of the sector. However, there is a need to consider the future
operation of the sector. The PSP will provide technical assistance in the design of the power market
structure. This project will provide technical assistance in preparing for the implementation of a wholesale
power market.
-5 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank.       % Of
tComp  nent                 Sector        Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
_ _ _ ; :             _ _         ______   ::i;: 0 :: S;;                X;f; :  L fi ;L::i       .,. E X {(US$M)   Total  (US$M)  financing
1. Investment Components:          Distribution &     89.95      79.4      85.96      86.0
Transmission
(a) Urgent transmission substation
reinforcement;
(b) Grid metering;
(c) SCADA/EMS/comnmunication
systems;
(d) Grid protection;
(e) MIS for the TransysCo.
2. Technical Assistance Components   Institutional    18.00       15.9     12.34       12.3
in Establishing the TransysCo a/:   Development
(a) TA change management;
(b) Preparation and implementation of
a business plan for the TransysCo;
(c) TA transmission pricing study;
(d) Engineering services;
(e) Capacity building/training;
(f) TA power market development and
operation.
3. Social and Environmental        Environmental       1.75        1.5      1.70        1.7
Component:                      Institutions
Establishment and capacity building for
an ERSU within the TransysCo, with
responsibility for environment audit,
environment impact and resettlement
assessments and action plans for future
projects.
Total Project Costs                 109.70      96.8    100.00      100.0
Interest during construction                 3.65       3.2       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                    0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   113.35     100.0    100.00      100.0
a/    including the PPF advance of US$2 million.
- 6 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project is designed to support the Govemnents reform agenda and complement the
Technical Assistance provided through the PSP. This project supports the following institutional reforms:
*   Development of cost-reflective retail tariff policies as part of an overall sustainable financial plan to
ensure the viability of the sector and the efficient use of energy resources.
*   Unbundling the generation, transmission, and distribution functions of NEPA and establishing a
TransysCo to be incorporated under the Company Act.
*   Developing and implementing the organization and fimnctions of the TransysCo - including its legal,
ecenomic, financial, managerial, environmental and social capabilities - operating on a commercial
basis, which will facilitate private participation in ownership / operation of the TransysCo.
v Development of secondary regulations concerning transmission and system operation, including
transmission (and ancillary services) pricing, to support the independent regulatory body.
*   Private participation in billing and collections as an interim measure prior to privatizing the distribution
system.
3. Benefits and target population:
As an essential component of power sector reform, this project will impact the whole country. It will
contribute to poverty reduction in two ways: (i) easing the immediate power supply constraint on economic
growth; and (ii) contributing to a new restructured power sector which will reverse the current drain on the
budget.
Easing power supply constraint on economic growth. The totally inadequate state of power supply in
Nigeria is a severe constraint on social and economic activities. A reliable power supply is fundamental to
economic growth, which in turn is a prerequisite for sustained poverty reduction. The project's near-term
impact will be improved power supply through rehabilitation of the transmission system and the
dispatching/control system. The project's support for sector reform and the establishment of a
commercially operating TransysCo will contribute to competitive, efficient, sustainable sector operation in
the long-term.
Power sector positive contribution to government resources.  In 2000, government support to NEPA
amounted to US$400 million equivalent in the form of capital budget allocation for investments, debt
services, gas price subsidy, and exemption of customs duties. This amount will increase to US$685 million
in 2001 (including Lagos State subsidy to the AES/ENRC)N Emergency Power Project {EPP}) prior to
sector restructuring and privatization. A business-as-usual approach in which the Government supports the
power sector implies a massive drain on the budget. The establishment of the TransysCo will facilitate
private investment in generation and distribution, and the development of an efficient wholesale power
market which will promote competition and improve the power sector's long-term performance. Funds that
would have to be devoted to subsidizing a poorly performing Government-rmn power sector, and new funds
generated from taxes and dividends in a restructured power sector, will be available for spending in sectors
such as education and health, which can directly benefit thie poor.
- 7 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing Agencies
NEPA and the Federal Ministry of Power and Steel (FMPS) will be the joint implementing agencies, with
NEPA being the primary one. FMPS will be responsible for the component of change management.
NEPA will be responsible for implementation of the investment components and all other institutional
components. After the restructuring of NEPA, the newly formed TransysCo will take over NEPA's
responsibilities for the project.
Implementation Arrangements
Project Management. NEPA (and later the TransysCo) will be responsible for preparation and
implementation of all aspects of the project except the change management component. A Project
Management Unit (PMU) within NEPA was set up after the first Bank mission in July 2000. An
organizational chart is shown in Annex 13. To ensure close coordination with FMPS at the working level,
a representative from FMPS has been assigned to the PMU as a liaison officer.
FMPS will be responsible for preparation and implementation of the change management component which
consists of: (a) establishment of the TransysCo; and (b) design and implementation of a program to assist
staff outplaced during NEPA unbundling, in finding new employment. It is envisaged that: (i) a single
contract will be awarded for this component and the contract will be divided into two parts, namely,
consultants' services and a training program; (ii) the PMU will administer the procurement of the
consultants and funding of the training program with technical inputs from FMPS; (iii) a working group
chaired by FMPS and consisting of FMPS, NEPA and intemational consultants will be established to
implement this component; and (iv) the working group will report to the project steering committee.
At the project preparation stage, the PMU is responsible for project preparation including procurement,
administration of the PPF and other funds, contracting and supervision of consultants, coordination with
various departments of NEPA and with all stakeholders in the sector. At the project implementation stage,
the PMU will be responsible for procurement management for both goods and services, supervision of
construction scheduling, quality and cost control, coordination of technical assistance activities for reform,
coordination of training activities, financial management and project reporting. All major investment
contracts will be of supply and installation type following Bank intemational competitive bidding procedure
and the bidding documents will be reviewed and finalized by intemational consultants.
After NEPA is restructured, the PMU will be transferred to the newly created TransysCo in its entirety.
The PMU will play a critical role in maintaining continuity throughout implementation.
Social and Environment. An Environment, Resettlement and Social Unit (ERSU) will be set up to
support the PMU. This ERSU will be transferred to the TransysCo in its entirety. Its function will then be
expanded to cover the whole TransysCo. This unit will be built up from staff who have been responsible
for monitoring and managing the environment, resettlement and social aspects of the project so far.
Technical assistance will be provided to build the capacity of this unit. The ERSU will also be responsible
for managing the AIDS/HIV awareness program in coordination with National Action Committee on
AIDS.
-8 -



Project Oversight and Coordination.  A project steering committee consisting of representatives from
FMPS and NEPA will be established to provide project oversight and coordination. The steering
committee will make quarterly reports to the Electric Power Sector Reform Implementation Committee
(EPIC) on issues concerning reform and restructuring. EPIC is a coordinating body under the National
Council on Privatization (NCP) headed by the Minister cf FMPS and including members from the Power
Department of FMPS, NEPA Technical Board, NEPA management, the Bureau of Public Enterprise
(BPE) and the Multilateral Institutions Department of FMF. When the sector is restructured, the
composition of the steering committee will be modified to include TransysCo Board and Management, and
the newly established regulatory commission.
Project Supervision.  On-going supervision will be carried out by field-based staff. Specialized senior
staff from the headquarters will visit every four-to-six months.
On-lending, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. The IDA credit of US$100 million will
be made to the Government of Nigeria on standard terms. The Government will onlend US$98.7 million
equivalent of the IDA credit to NEPA for the investment, technical assistance and social and environment
components. The onlending terms are a maturity of 20 years including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate
of not less than 7.2 percent. NEPA will bear the foreigrn exchange risk. US$1.3 million equivalent will
remain with the Government through FMPS for the change management component. The on-lent part of
the IDA credit will be transferred under the same terms f.rom NEPA to the successor TransysCo when it
comes into being.
NEPA (and later the successor TransysCo) will have its financial statements (including Project Accounts
and any Special Accounts established under the project) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
intemationally acceptable auditing standards, and by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. These
audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year. Also, NEPA
(and the successor TransysCo) will submit its annual capital budget review to IDA prior to the end of each
fiscal year.
The PMU will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures acceptable
to NEPA, the FMPS and the World Bank are adhered to. For the PMU to deliver on the aforementioned
objectives, its Financial Management System (FMS) is being developed in accordance with the Financial
Management Action Plan presented in Annex 12. The main features of the Action Plan include: the
retention of a Financial Management Consultant to advise on the selection and installation of the Project's
FMS, to prepare the Project's Financial Procedures Manual and to train staff in the operation of the system;
the establishment of a representative Financial Management Committee; the appointment of a Project
Accountant and the availability of support staff; capacity building; the establishment of a Fixed Assets
Register and a Contracts Register; monthly bank reconciliation and quarterly reporting of financial
information; cash flow management including variance analysis; and an annual extemal audit for the
project on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
In the short-term before the FMS is fully operational, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the
Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special
Commitments. However, the successful implementation of the Project's FMS under the supervision of the
Project Accountant should facilitate the conversion to Project Management Report (PMR)-based
disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness. In that regard, a financial management review of
the project will be undertaken by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist within 12 months of
credit effectiveness to assess progress.
-9-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Choice of Lending Instrument: SIL rather than APL
A major consideration is the combination of the urgency of investrnents needed in the transmission system
and the need for sector reform to ensure that the investment is sustainable. An Adaptable Program Lending
instrument (APL) was considered because this would have committed both the Bank and the Borrower to
the reform program over the medium-term, while making available urgent investment financing in the
near-term. A concem with this approach is the potential, but undefined, social and environmental impact of
investments in later APL phases (e.g. new transmission lines). Rather than wait to process an APL until
after these impacts are defined, it was decided to move ahead quickly with a Specific Investment Loan
(SIL) including only urgent investment needs with minimal environmental and social impact. This will
ensure a timely availability of required financing. Once the implementation of this SIL is underway, there
will be opportunity for a follow-on project for support to the TransysCo if needed.
Project Scope and Interface with other World Bank activities and USAID assistance
World Bank Technical Assistance for power sector reform and privatization is being provided through the
PSP. The proposed TDP is designed to play a complementary role. The scope includes technical
assistance directly related to establishing and operationalizing the TransysCo, developing secondary
regulations (e.g. transmission pricing) consistent with the overall power sector regulation framework, and
preparatory work for establishing a wholesale power market. Investment components of the TDP target
weaknesses in the physical infrastructure which must be addressed if the reform and privatization are to
proceed.
USAID is funding a two-phase technical assistance project with NEPA to start the process of unbundling
the utility, focusing on finance and accounting. USAID is also supporting the overall privatization
program including the power sector, by financing a "core team" at the BPE, made up of Nigerian nationals
who were recruited from outside Nigeria to provide intemational expertise.
Degree of Reform to be Achieved before Investment Disbursement
When the need for investment financing is the driving force motivating a government to think seriously
about power sector reform, the political will to pursue controversial reforms sometimes weakens if the
financing precedes irreversible steps toward reform. Under these circumstances best practice in design of a
sector reform project (or, as in this case, a project supporting sector reform) is to require irreversible steps
toward reform (such as the passage of a reform electricity act, unbundling of the existing parastatal) as a
prerequisite for investment financing.
- 10-



The context for the proposed project suggests some flexibility in applying the above approach. Political
and public support for power sector reform is linked to the expectation that the adverse aspects of reform
(such as price increases) will be more than compensated for by an early and noticeable improvement in
service. Without matching investment in the transmission system, the improved service will not be realized
and support for the Government's reform program could wane. The approach taken here is to provide
financing to cover the most urgent transmission investments so that transmission will not be a bottleneck in
improving the power supply. These investments will take: place in tandem with sector reform (e.g., passage
of new electricity law expected in 2001).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
,  .. ..Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
._______     _(Bank-financed projects oniy)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rehabilitation and maintenance of the  Power System Maintenance and  S             S
power system and institutional    Rehabilitation P'roject
strengthening.                    (1990-1995)
Loan 3116-UNI
Expansion of the distribution system,  Power VI (approved 1982)     U             U
training and institution-building.  Loan 2085-UNI
Hydro-generation, transmission, village Power V (approved 1979)     U             U
electrification.                  Loan 1766-UNI
Hydro-generation and transmission.    Power IV (approved 1972)      U             U
Loan 847-UNI
Hydro-generation and transmission.    Power III (approved 1968)     U             U
Loan 572-UNI
Transmission and distribution.    Power II (approved 1964)          U             U
Loan 383-UNI
Transmission.                     Power I (approved 1964)           U             U
Loan 372-UNI
Power sector reform, restructuring, and Privatization Support Project
privatization.
Other development agencies
TA in NEPA restructuring.         USAID.
TA and possible investment in      Swiss Government.
transmission, dispatch and control.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U QUnsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 11 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Major institutional change is needed.  The ICR for the last Bank project in the Nigerian power sector
states that: "Institutional deficiencies are the source of NEPA's technical and financial problems, and any
project that attempts a technical solution without a major institutional change that guarantees autonomy in
operations will produce results that are not sustainable and waste scarce resources." (ref. World Bank "
Implementation Completion Report for the Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project" (Loan
311 6-UNI) of June 30, 1997, para. 25). The proposed project incorporates institutional change directly by
setting the goal of establishing a commercially operating transmission and system operation company as a
result of unbundling NEPA.
Importance of broad-based consensusfor institutional change.  Experience has shown that
consultation leading to broad-based support is critical to the success of fundamental institutional reforms in
the power sector. The Nigerian Government has established an active forum for stakeholder debate on
power sector reforms: EPIC. As part of project preparation the PMU, with Bank assistance, arranged a
two-day intemational workshop in November 2000 on "Organizations and Functions of the New
Transmission Company". The workshop was attended by over 70 people representing a broad range of
stakeholders including NGOs. The proposed project will continue to provide support for
consensus-building relating to the structure and functions of the new TransysCo, transition arrangements,
and assistance for staff who will be retrenched, through the change management component.
Continuity in management and implementation.  Experience from Bank-supported power sector
projects during sector restructuring highlights the importance of ensuring continuity of project management
throughout project implementation. NEPA will be dismantled and the new TransysCo will become the
primary implementing agency for this project. The issue of continuity has been discussed with NEPA from
the outset of the project. In part to address this issue a PMU was established immediately after the Bank
identification mission. The PMU will be transferred to the TransysCo.
Financial management.  Poor financial management results in delays and occasionally misuse of funds.
See Section C4 for steps to address this issue. Financial management requirements and responsibilities
were discussed and agreed during the initial stages of project preparation with the Manager and Accountant
of the PMU, the Technical Board Member responsible for this project, NEPA's Executive Director for
Finance, and the Director of Power at the FMPS.
Procurement management.  Inadequate procurement management causes delays in contracting and often
opens the door to corruption. So far, more than 25 NEPA and FMPS staff members have attended
procurement training courses/workshops. During the pre-appraisal mission, a two-day workshop - an
Introduction to Operations Procurement, Procurement Data Management and Procurement Filing - was
conducted for NEPA. In the PMU, there are two members assigned for procurement management and the
Project Accountant has also received training on procurement. Training on contract management has been
planned to take place before effectiveness.
Support and monitoring of environmental and social aspects.  When the major focus of a project is
institutional reform, supervision and monitoring of environmental and social aspects of investment
components are sometimes neglected. Currently, there is inadequate institutional capacity in the power
sector to handle the environmental and social issues. The project design includes capacity building and the
establishment of an ERSU at the outset of project implementation. This ERSU will become a permanent
unit in the TransysCo.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment to Sector Reform
*   Constitution of the NCP headed by the Vice President, with a mandate to reform several sectors,
including power.
* Constitution of the EPIC to coordinate the reform of the sector.
*   FGN will borrow over US$20 million for power sector reform under the PSP.
*  The power sector policy which defines the framework for sector reform, restructuring and privatization
was approved by the Federal Executive Council in March 2001, and the draft electricity law has been
circulated for cornment.
Ownership of the Transmission Development Project
* A June 2000 letter was received from the President of Nigeria requesting assistance in the power
sector, including, specifically, assistance in the trans:mission sub-sector.
*  NEPA has had a full counterpart team working with the Bank from the first mission in July 2000.
Since August 2000, the PMU, with Bank assistance, has organized a two-day international workshop,
hired and supervised seven international consultants, and evaluated bids for two major planning
studies. This fast pace has only been possible because of strong support from NEPA's Technical
Board and Management, and hard work on the part of the PMU individuals. NEPA funds have been
used to rent and equip office space for the PMU.
_ The Bank team met with FMPS and BPE where support for the project is very evident.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Longer-term developmentfocus. NEPA's Technical Board, management and staff are under enormous
pressure to deliver on the short-term improvements in power supply promised by the President of Nigeria.
A major benefit of Bank support is to draw attention to the medium- and long-term issues and to help
ensure that short-term actions are consistent with longer-term objectives. For example, through the PPF,
the Bank is supporting essential studies and training for the SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition) system and for medium-term transmission planning. Planning in these areas was minimal at
NEPA, prior to Bank involvement. Decisions about the SCADA system and investments in transmission in
the short-term will have significant long-term cost and efficiency implications.
Incorporation of international experience in establishing the TransysCo. The November 2000
workshop, the upcoming study tour (June 2001) and the significant resources set aside for training (about
US$5 million) will ensure that Nigerians have the opportunity to benefit from international experiences to
select the most suitable structure and functions for this new company.
- 13 -



Efficientpricing.  NEPA management has beeen mainly concerned with tariff levels. The isssue of
efficiency in pricing has been neglected so far. Bank assistance in developing an interim retail tariff
adjustment plan, through PPF-funded international consultants, has provided an opportunity for Nigerians
to consider impacts and methods to reduce pricing distortion through tariff re-balancing. Further, a
transmission pricing study is planned under the project and its outcome will be submitted to the independent
regulatory commission as a basis for transmission regulation.
Increased socialfocus.  Through the change management component of the project, the Bank will assist
in the development of an incentive-based scheme and training opportunities to help retrenched workers find
employment with private firms that will provide services (e.g. line maintenance) to the new TransysCo and
DisCos. This is a critical aspect of the restructuring.
Increased environmental focus.  Bank assistance in setting up the ERSU and in the implementation of
the social and environment component will strengthen the institutional capacity and raise awareness of the
importance of these issues.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$60.7 million; ERR = 26.6 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Transformer overloading, excessive transmission losses and low reliability were identified as the major
problems of NEPA's transmission system in the 1993 ESMAP report (Issues and Options in the Energy
Sector, July 1993). These problems persist and in fact have become worse in recent years. NEPA does not
have adequate facilities to meter energy flows from the generating stations to the transmission and
distribution networks. Accurate metering is a prerequisite for the implementation of the Government's
power sector reform program, which involves the unbundling of NEPA into separate companies for
generation, transmission and distribution. A least-cost system planning study (funded under the PPF),
which is planned to be completed in September 2001, will confirm the system requirements and the optimal
timing of investments.
The project will finance three major investment components:
1.    Reinforcement of overloaded 330 kV substations;
2.    Installation of a SCADA and telecommunications system; and
3.    Installation of a grid metering system at voltages 132 kV and above.
The measurable economic benefits of the project accrue from the reduction of transmission losses,
improved system reliability, and increased transmission capacity to meet expected growth in demand- The
project would benefit NEPA's current customers by reducing the need for back-up diesel generators. It
would also allow for new consumers to be connected to the system. The project complements the
Government's on-going program to increase the availability of the generation capacity. The value of
project benefits is estimated as follows:
- 14 -



*   Project benefits from loss reduction and reliability improvement are valued in terns of the weighted
average short run marginal supply cost of alternatives being displaced (mainly the fuel and 0 & M cost
of back-up diesel generators). This is estimated at US cents 5.5/kWh.
*   Project benefits from incremental sales are valued by the weighted average consumers' willingness to
pay for increased electricity supply. This is estimate(d at US cents 7.4/kWh.
The economic costs comprise investment costs including physical contingencies; incremental operation and
maintenance costs; and the cost of incremental generation and distribution necessary to supply the
incremental sales. The sensitivity and risk analyses confirmed the robustness of the EIRR. The sensitivity
analysis indicated that capital costs would need to increase by about 250% to reduce the EIRR to 12%,
while the value of the benefits would need to go down by about 70% to render the project uneconomic. The
risk analysis indicated further that the probability of obtaining an EIRR lower than 12% was less than 2%.
The analysis also confirmed the viability (measured in EIRR) of the project components separately as
follows:
*   Reinforcement of overloaded substations: 31.3%.
*   Installation of a SCADA and telecommunications system: 17.5%.
* Grid metering system: 20.8%.
Note: A discount rate of 12% is assumed to calculate present values for both economic and financial
analyses.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 41.8 million; FRR = 24.3 % (see Annex 4)
NEPA's Recent Financial Performance. During the past decade, NEPA's overall financial and
operational performance has been poor and on a declining trend. Low availability in generation capacity,
high system losses, poor collection rates and inadequate tariff levels have resulted in an insufficient revenue
base for efficient and financially viable operations. Weak management, poor accountability and control of
its commercial operations have further compounded NEPA's problems in recent years. This has led to
deferred maintenance and inadequate investments in the network which have contributed to the unreliable
power supply situation.
Financial performance in 2000 was particularly poor due to a significant drop in power generation. During
most of November and December 2000, the Kainji Hydropower plant was out of operation due to flooding
and associated damage to gates. This affected the output from the downstream Jebba Hydropower plant.
Power generation from the Delta gas-fired thennal station was restricted because of a damaged
transmission line. Also, consumers are less willing to settle their bills during periods of deteriorating and
unreliable power supply.
The table below provides an overview of NEPA's operational and financial performance during the
1998-2000 period.
- 15 -



Key Operational & Financial Indicators (1998-2000)     1998         1999         2000
Actual      Actual       Forecast
Average availability (M4W)                             2,515        2,379        1,965
Energy sent out (GWh)                                  15,957       15,933       14,336
Energy billed (GWh)                                    11,242       10,339       9,516
System losses                                          30%          35%          35%
Cash collected as % of billing (domestic)              78%          79%          80%
Collected billing as % of energy sent out (domestic)   55%          51%          52%
Total Revenue (Naira billions)                         18.296       32.937       30.379
Number of billed customers (millions)                  2.644        2.690        2.740
Number of employees                                    32,723       37,398       35,614
Customers per employee                                 81           72           77
Average domestic revenue (N/kWh)                       1.6          3.2          3.2
Average domestic revenue (USc/kWh)                     1.9          3.4          3.1
Average cash operating expenses (USc/kWh)               1.4         2.2          2.6
Working ratio (cash operating expenses/operating revenue)  0.68     0.65         0.81
Retur on fixed _                                       10.1%        - 0.3%       - 20.1%
Debt service ratio                                     2.2          0.2          - 0.8
Self-financing ratio                                   62%          37%          - 5%
NEPA's deteriorating financial situation is evident from the figures provided in the above table. Some of
the symptoms of NEPA's poor performance can be summarized as follows:
v  NEPA is currently collecting revenues for just over 50% of energy sent out, resulting in lost revenues
of about US$150 million annually. This includes non-payment by the Govenmnent for electricity
consumption since April 1999; and State and Local Governments have been paying very little (total
Government electricity debt is estimated at N 13.4 billion (US$129 million).
*   In spite of a 100% increase in the average electricity tariff effective January 1, 1999 (the first increase
since 1995), NEPA electricity revenues for 2000 are expected to show a growth of no more than 66%
of its 1998 revenue, and register a fall of 8% over 1999, mainly due to a decline in electricity available
for sale.
*   In US cents terms, NEPA's average revenue in 2000 increased by 66% over 1998 and declined by
8.6% over 1999. The present weighted average unit revenue is estimated at 3.2 N/kWh (3.1 USc/kWh)
which is about half of the estimated average long-run marginal cost of supply (6.5 USc/kWh).
*  NEPA's cash operating expenses per kWh of energy sold have increased from 1.4 USc/kWh in 1998 to
2.6 USc/kWh in 2000, or by 89% over the last two years. The main contributory factors are a 100%
increase in basic salaries effective July 1, 2000, increases due to annual re-grading of staff (a 10%
- 16 -



annual increase in payroll costs), and a net increase of 2,891 1/ in staff numbers over the last two
years.
*  Due to its poor cash flow, NEPA has not met its debt service obligations in recent years and the
Government has financed most of NEPA's investment needs. NEPA's unmet debt service obligations
through 2000 amounts to about N 40.5 billion (US$396 million equivalent); and
*   Total Government support and subsidies to NEPA in 2000 was about US$400 million. This included
support and subsidies for capital investment, debt service, gas and customs duty exemptions.
1/ Staff numbers increased by 4,675 in 1999 and declined by 1,784 in 2000, giving a net increase of 2,891
over two years.
The Government recognizes that fundamental changes are required to transform the power sector into a
Financially viable electricity industry and is committed ltO the reform and restructuring of the sector,
including the unbundling of NEPA and privatization of generation and distribution. In April 2000, based
on the recommendations of the NEPA Technical Board, the Government agreed to finance a power
rehabilitation program of N 29.2 billion (US$292 million equivalent). These investments are expected to
yield significant improvements in power supply during the second half of 2001.
Future Performance and Prospects of the Power Sector (2001-2005).  The proposed project, which
aims to address the transrnission system bottlenecks, will be implemented in parallel with the Government's
power sector reform program. Thus the financial analysis and projections for the power sector as a whole
for 2001-2005 should be considered as a proxy for the sector's expected overall financial and operational
performance. The overriding principles of financial viability and commercialization of the combined
NEPA and its successor companies have been applied in the financial projections. Assumptions have been
made concerning the level of financial restructuring, a gradual increase in operational efficiency (e.g.,
reduction of system losses, improvements in revenue collection, introduction of cost-containment measures,
staffing adjustments), tariff increases, periodic automatic tariff adjustments to account for inflation and
foreign exchange fluctuations, provision for dividends, etc.. Significant efficiency improvements are
envisaged by 2005 as increasing proportions of NEPA 's generation and distribution facilities are operated
and maintained by the private sector.
Operational & Financial Indicators (2001-2005)   2001    2002  2003     2004    2005
Average availability (MW)                    3,505    5,181    5,159    5,351    5,951
Energy sent out (GWh)                        15,779   18,835   19,556    20,304  21,081
System losses (transmission & distribution)  35%     34%       32%      30%      27%
Total sales (GWh)                            10,256   12,431   13,298   14,213   15,389
Growth in sales                              7.8%    21.2%    7.0%      6.9%     8.3%
Average domestic revenue (N/kWh) excluding VAT  3.6  5.4       7.5      7.9      8.7
Average domestic revenue (USc/kWh) excluding  3.2    4.6       6.2      6.4      6.9
VAT
Number of billed customers (thousands)       2,980    3,226    3.485    3,807    4,100
Number of employees                          34,614   32,614   30,614   28,614   26,614
Customers per employee                       86      99        114      133      154
- 17 -



Collection rate (based on year's billing) (domestic)   80%  83%  85%      88%      90%
Days of accounts receivable (domestic)        111      71       53        44       37
Working ratio                                 1.06     0.83     0.65      0.67     0.67
Return on fixed assets                        - 17.3%  - 10.0%   6.1%     4.2%     6.5%
Debt service ratio                            - 0.4    - 0.1    4.1       4.6      5.2
Self-financing ratio                          - 29%    - 7%      10%      34%      43%
Current ratio                                 1.4      1.0       1.6      2.4      2.8
Debt/Equity ratio                             23%      17%       15%      20%      24%
Financial Policies.  In line with its power sector reform objectives, the Government has made
commitments with regard to modifying the structure and level of tariffs and the adoption of an automatic
tariff adjustment mechanism. Future tariff levels will be determined to ensure that NEPA and its successor
companies are in a position to: (a) meet their debt service obligations from 2002, which cannot be met
under present tariff levels; (b) pay for the power purchase costs of EPP/IPPs (except for agreed
contributions from Lagos State for AES supply to Lagos until privatization of Lagos Zone distribution); (c)
finance from own resources a reasonable proportion of investment needs; and (d) provide adequate returns
to private shareholders after privatization.
The financial projections provide an indication of the likely overall weighted average retail electricity tariff.
The determination of bulk tariffs for generation and transmission will be defined once the assets and
liabilities of NEPA are fully evaluated and allocated amongst its successor companies. The financial
restructuring of NEPA's existing debt portfolio and the allocation of the remaining debt amongst the new
successor companies will play a key role in the determination of revenue requirements of the new
generation, transmission and distribution companies, and hence the required bulk tariffs for generation and
transmission. This exercise will be undertaken as part of the unbundling and privatization program under
PSP.
Tariff Adjustments.  The Government recognizes that electricity tariffs will have to rise significantly
over the short-term to restore and maintain the financial viability of the power sector. As part of the power
sector sustainable financial plan approved by Government in April 2001, an interim retail tariff adjustment
schedule will be implemented to ensure that tariffs cover costs, and are brought in line with long-ran
marginal costs. The interim retail tariff adjustment schedule calls for two consecutive tariff increases of
50% each. The first increase is scheduled on about October 1, 2001 subject to NEPA achieving generation
capacity availability of 3000 MW and outsourcing its revenue cycle management. It will be followed by a
second increase nine months thereafter. The two increases would raise the average retail tariff to US 4.2
c/kWh and US 6.0 c/kWh by end 2001 and 2002 respectively. Secondly, to ensure that the average retail
tariff will be maintained in real terms, tariff adjustments will be indexed to exogenous changes including
fuel prices, exchange rate movements, and inflation. The indexation forrnula will be developed and
implemented by the independent regulator. Based on the present analysis, only moderate "real" tariff
increases will be needed from then on to end 2005. The combined effects of increasing sales and
progressive efficiency improvements in operations and billing collection will provide opportunities for
lowering of tariffs beyond 2005. The required tariff levels beyond 2002 will be determined based on the
outcome of ongoing sector reforms, unbundling of NEPA and eventual privatization of generation and
distribution. Considerable uncertainties remain and until all the major issues are clarified, including
privatization option studies, the tariff levels beyond 2002 cannot be predicted with any greater degree of
accuracy at this stage.
- 18 -



Financial Targets (2001-2005).  In order to secure the financial viability of the power sector, future
tariff levels have been determined based on the following targets:
*  A self-financing ratio of 10% in 2003 and 25% in 2004 and future years (defined as funds from
internal sources over average of three years' capital investments).
*   A working ratio of 0.67 times from 2003 onwards (defined as operating expenses, excluding
depreciation and bad debt provisions, over operating revenue).
*  A current ratio of 1.0 times in 2001 to 2003 and 1.25 times in 2004 and future years (defined as
current assets over current liabilities).
These ratios and other key financial assumptions formed the basis from which a power sector sustainable
financial plan was developed and approved by the Government. A provision is made in the Development
Credit Agreement and Project Agreement that the FGN and NEPA shall achieve and maintain financial
viability of the power sector according to the plan. More precise financial requirements for the power
sector as a whole, and the TransysCo in particular, will be determined once the unbundling process and the
valuation and allocation of NEPA's assets and liabilities, including its restructured debt, are completed.
Following the substantial completion of privatization of NEPA's generation and distribution facilities
envisaged by December 2003, the Government, the regulatory body and IDA will review and amend the
above financial viability targets and the expected retail tariff path as appropriate, so that they conform with
the sector structure, the contractual agreements entered into with generation and distribution companies,
and with the efficiency and other financial targets established for the TransysCo.
Fiscal Impact:
A fiscal impact analysis of the proposed project has been carried out on the Government's capital flows for
2000-2006. In 2000 the Government provided almost N 40 billion (US$400 million equivalent) in
budgetary support and subsidies to NEPA for capital investment, debt service, gas subsidy and customs
duty exemptions. The total financial assistance accounts for 6% of the FGN's annual budget or 13% of the
FGN capital budget. Budgetary support for the power sector is expected to increase in 2001 and 2002 to N
68.4 billion and N 70.7 billion respectively, decline in 2003 to about N 33.8 billion and be gradually
phased out in 2004 and 2005 when the sector is substantially restructured. Thereafter, the power sector is
expected to contribute taxes and returns (including possibly concession fees) to the Government.
Government Budgetary Support and Subsidies to the Power Sector
(all figures in Naira million)  2000   2001    2002    2003       2004      2005
Customs duty exemption       3,246     7,706    6,693    4,540    4,184     5,667
Exemption of VAT on imports   1,082    2,569    2,231    1,513    1,395     1,889
Investment                   24,397   49,780   55,151   26,338   3,672    419
(generation/transmission/
distribution)
Debt service relief          3,902    3,647    -
Gas subsidy                  4,588     3,974    5,243                   _
EPP subsidy (Lagos State)    -         779      1,387    1,432    1,103    377
- 19-



Retrenchment costs           2,800
Total                        40,015   68,455   70,705   33,823   10,354   8,352
3. Technical:
The investment components will remove bottlenecks in a number of important substations in the 330 kV
grid, redress the high system voltage problem which has caused considerable equipment damage in the past,
replace 30-year old line protection hardware and provide an adequately equipped system control center to
facilitate economic operation of generation facilities and the transmission system. Grid system metering
necessary for the unbundling of the power sector and control of the system is included.
The components that need further definition before procurement activities commence are the reactive
compensation needs (to redress high system voltages), and the system control center (together with
associated communication requirements). While preliminary requirements have been identified by NEPA
and reviewed by Bank staff, details of these components and specifications for compliance will be worked
out by consultants appointed in June 2001 under PPF funding. Some of the existing equipment involved in
the grid control facilities does not comply with 'Open System Standards' that allow new additions from
altemative suppliers. This issue will be addressed by the consultants to ensure that the system will convert
to the use of standard protocols that would allow competitive procurement. The remaining components will
also be reviewed by the consultants before issue of procurement invitations to ensure that the most
appropriate solutions are selected.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The reform related aspects:  FMPS and NEPA have very limited experience in managing and
implementing reform related activities. As a mitigation measure, the project includes significant technical
assistance (TA) and capacity building components in the areas of change management, preparing and
implementing a business plan for the new TransysCo and developing transmission related secondary
regulation framework. Terms of Reference (TOR) for major TA contracts were drafted and discussed with
FMPS and NEPA. All TA contracts will include extensive training. USAID has also agreed to facilitate a
twining arrangement for the new TransysCo.
The investment program:  NEPA (and the successor TransysCo) is technically capable of implementing
the investment components. To strengthen its planning and managerial capability, assistance with the
design and engineering aspects will be provided by intemational consultants engaged under PPF funding.
To ensure that construction will be of good quality, within the contract price and on schedule, it was agreed
that major investments would be grouped into six supply and installation contracts to simplify coordination
and supervision.
4.2 Project management:
The establishment of the PMU at the outset of project preparation has laid a good foundation for project
- 20 -



management. Measures (Details see C4 - implementation arrangements) were discussed with NEPA and
FMPS to streamline the project management and to stren,gthen PMU's institutional capability.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There is inadequate procurement management capacity vwithin NEPA to ensure compliance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines. Training on procurement following Bank Procurement Guidelines has been
emphasized as early as the first Bank identification mission. Intensive training has already been provided
to over 25 higher level staff members from NEPA and FMPS (see Annex 6) and will continue to be
provided throughout the project implementation period. It is also planned that PPF-funded consultants will
be engaged before the effectiveness of the credit to assist in setting up the project implementation progress
reporting system. Procurement planning and contract management will be emphasized.
4.4 Financial management issues:
NEPA in its present form is weak in financial management. USAID is providing assistance in restructuring
the finance and accounting functions of NEPA. However, management of the funds under the project will
be, to a large extent, insulated from the rest of NEPA through measures that include: (i) appointment of a
Project Accountant exclusively working for the project; (ii) establishment of the PMU's Financial
Management System (FMS); and (iii) retention of a Financial Management Consultant. Furthermore,
under the TA contract for drafting and implementing a business plan, a Management Information System
(MIS) including a financial management component will be designed for the new TransysCo. Extensive
training will also be carried out. The MIS will be procured and installed under the project.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental ;assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
At the outset of project preparation, NEPA agreed to establish an Environment, Resettlement and Social
Unit (ERSU). This unit will be transferred to the new TransysCo when it is established. As a first step
towards this, the PMU has a member responsible for environment and resettlement. Two activities are
planned to initiate the capacity building of the ERSU. A consultant will be hired, before credit
effectiveness, to: (i) design a staffing plan and a detailed work program for the ERSU; (ii) support initial
start up and operation of the ERSU; and (iii) design and cost a detailed training program for the ERSU.
Also in this timeframe, existing members of the ERSU will visit the recently-established ERSU at the
Zambian power utility. The initial contacts have already been made. Under the project, US$1.7 million
has been allocated for the environment and social component, of which the majority will be used for
training and capacity building.
The PMU contracted an intemational consultant to undertake an environmental assessment of the proposed
project. The EA report has been reviewed and approvecl by the World Bank Social and Environment Units
and was submitted to the World Bank InfoShop on February 7, 2001. The EA report included a
characterization of existing environmental conditions at the sites, an assessment of impacts arising from
proposed activities, and a proposed Environmental Management Plan (EMP). There are no major
environmental or social problems due to this project. However, there are potential environmental issues
associated with pre-existing contamination at some of the project sites. Specifically, the EA could not
eliminate the possibility that some of the sites might be contaminated with polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCB)-containing materials.
-21 -



The consultant also prepared an Environmental Policy Framework Review (EPFR) in collaboration with
the professional staff of NEPA. The purpose of this EPFR is to ensure that the FGN and NEPA have, or
will develop, the requisite policy and institutional capability to address environmental issues, including
preparation of Environmental Assessments, arising from new activities in the transmission sub-sector. The
review included recommendations on policy and institutional strengthening actions, estimated costs, and
timing for policy and institutional strengthening activities. The EPFR also addresses public consultation
issues.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project Environment Management Plan (EMP) calls for Phase I environmental audits, including PCB
testing, at all substations prior to construction design. If the presence of PCBs is confirmed, a Phase II
audit will be conducted to delineate the extent and concentration of contamination. The Phase II audit
results will allow development of construction plans for new facilities designed to minimize disturbance of
contaminated areas and therefore human exposure. If PCB is found at any of the sites, appropriate steps
will be taken for containment or removal. Any pre-existing environmental contamination will be handled in
compliance with the World Bank safeguard policies. The framework and budget to implement mitigation
measures are in place.
Site-specific Environmental Management Plans (site EMP's) will be developed as part of the Phase I
environmental audit. Each site EMP will identify activities with potential environmental impacts, describe
methods to mitigate and monitor those impacts, identify persons responsible for implementing the elements
of the plan, with training requirements, and prescribe a schedule and cost estimate for implementation. For
example, specific activities which could be included in the site EMPs are implementing a waste
management program for the transformer maintenance operations. An outline for a site EMP has been
prepared by the Consultant.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January 26, 2001
The EA report was submitted to World Bank InfoShop on February 7, 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
In preparing the EA, NEPA, with assistance from the consultant, met with all major stakeholders
(Government and NEPA staff at the substations). There are no impacted groups since the project concems
only rehabilitation and reinforcement within the existing structure and does not involve construction of any
new lines and/or substations. The site-specific EMPs to be developed during project implementation will
address stakeholder and public consultation issues. These EMPs will be circulated to all stakeholders for
comment.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the irnpact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
See Section 5.2.
- 22 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
No resettlement or land acquisition is anticipated.
There could be limited retrenchment associated with the establishment of the TransysCo. The FGN is
preparing a comprehensive retrenchment policy for all public enterprises targeted for privatization. This
policy will be in place before any retrenchment associated with the creation of the TransysCo occurs. The
change management component of this project includes training assistance for workers likely to be laid off
during the restructuring.
An HIV/AIDS-awareness program will be developed and carried out in coordination with National Action
Committee on AIDS, by the ERSU.
An international consultant assisted NEPA in perforning; an assessment of the social impacts, and has
developed a draft policy framework for use in future social assessments. As the capacity of the ERSU is
strengthened (through measures described in 5.1) part of their mandate will be to further develop this draft
policy framework into a policy adopted by the TransysCo management.
Under the recently approved Privatization Support Project on June 14, 2001, the Bank will provide
financing for a review of options for retrenchment and severance policies. Support will also be provided
for consensus-building and implementation of a consistent Public Enterprise retrenchment strategy and
policy framework. Work has already begun to prepare this framework, including consultations with key
stakeholders.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
(a)     Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
The unfolding of power sector reform has so far involvecd a wide range of stakeholders, including the
Government, NEPA, the NCP and its implementing agency BPE, the State Rural Electrification Boards,
major customer groups, labor unions, and the international donor community (World Bank, USAID, etc.).
Following the Privatization and Commercialization Decree (No. 28 of 1999), NCP set up a number of
steering committees to carry out the functions of synchronizing, coordinating and monitoring all activities
relating to the restructuring and eventual sale transactions for the sectors and enterprises involved in the
current privatization program. The EPIC, as one of such steering committees was created in February
2000, specifically charged with the advisory role in the formulation of policies, programs and activities for
the electric power sector. Under EPIC, there is a set of sub-committees that deal with specific reform
issues, i.e. legal and regulatory, electricity market design, regulatory agency, technical and environmental,
and community outreach.
The consultative process for this project was set in motion from the outset of project preparation, with a
two-day international workshop to discuss functions and options for the new transmission company
(November 2000). A study tour with participants from NEPA, FMPS and the National Assembly will take
place in July 2001 to leam from those countries where power sector reform is at a more advanced stage.
- 23 -



The PMU will have a member specifically responsible for ensuring participation in the existing vehicles for
consultation on power sector issues, for example, the electricity market design and technical and
environmental sub-committees of EPIC.
The Technical Board of NEPA and FMPS will accord high priority to consultation with NEPA employees
through a staff information campaign that provides regular briefings to all staff on on-going and future
activities of NEPA restructuring and privatization.
(b)    Other key stakeholders
As part of this project, an ERSU will be established in the TransysCo. This ERSU will be responsible for
implementing the recommendations in the draft environmental and resettlement policy framework for
stakeholder consultation. This will help ensure full consultation and stakeholder involvement as new
projects are designed and implemented.
Potential investors will become more involved as the work on establishing the TransysCo gets underway.
Options for private participation are likely to include both ownership (minority shareholding) and operation
(management contract or concession).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The widely-publicized two-day international workshop mentioned in 6.2 included presentations on the
scope and objectives of this project, and how these objectives fit into the overall power sector policy. There
were break-out sessions during which participants were invited to share their questions and concerns. The
workshop was attended by a broad cross-section of stakeholders: NEPA staff and management,
representatives from the Federal Ministry of Power and Steel, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal
Ministry of Environment, and the National Assembly, private sector, media, and NGOs. A follow-up event
is planned to take place soon after credit effectiveness to officially launch the project, to further inform
stakeholders of the scope and goals of the project, and to request feedback and suggestions. A public
relations / stakeholder liaison consultant will be hired before the project launch and will continue to work
with the PMU and NEPA management to address stakeholder concerns.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The TA component of change management will be executed by FMPS. Under the project, an ERSU within
the TransysCo will be established and ERSU capacity building will be an early focus as described in
section 5.1.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The key social development indicators are that:
*   Implementation of the change management component has facilitated re-employment of retrenched
NEPA workers.
*   The ERSU has been established and is fully functional.
*   The social assessment and Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) prepared by ERSU for future
transmission projects are of high quality and in compliance with relevant Bank safeguard policies.
- 24 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, Gil 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.601          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure co-mpliance with applicable safeguard policies.
*   EA has been completed.
-   Establishment of ERSU and its capacity building is a component of the project.
*   A provision is made in the Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement that NEPA shall,
prior to reinforcement of grid substations, mitigate adverse environmental effects in accordance with
the EMP in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project depends on the implementation of the FGN's overall power sector reform
program. In particular the financial viability of the TransysCo will depend on the revenues it collects from
the generation and distribution companies for which it provides services.
The social, environmental, financial and institutional sustainability of the program will be underpinned
through a combination of the following factors which have been built into the project design:
*   Ownership by the Borrower and power sector stakeholders through broad stakeholder consultation.
*   Fundamental institutional and structural transformation of the sector.
*   Adoption and implementation of a sustainable financial plan including: (i) a retail tariff adjustment
plan; and (ii) improved billing and collection through private participation.
*   Adequate attention to the social aspect of sector restnmcturing, i.e. providing assistance in change
management which includes design and implementation of a scheme to facilitate the re-employment of
the retrenched workers in the private sector.
*   Adequate institutional capacity building for management and operation of the TransysCo and
environment and social aspects of the project.
- 25 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to reform is         S        Assist FGN in taking interim measures to
reduced during the process due to lack of           improve NEPA's operating performance without
near-term benefits from the reform                  interfering with the planned restructuring and
program.                                            privatization.
Enactment of the new Electricity Law is    S        (a) Public consensus building focusing on the
delayed due to resistance in the public and         linkages between sector reform, improved
the National Assembly.                              quality of services and economic growth;
(b) Timely involvement of the National
Assembly along with the progress of sector
reform; and
(c) Timely implementation of TA in change
management to facilitate re-employment of the
outplaced workers.
Financial performance of the newly         H        Timely implementation of the PSP which would
established generation and distribution             help to ensure that the pace of privatization is
companies remains poor due to delays in             kept on track.
privatization and inadequate revenues.
The newly established Nigerian Electricity  S       Funding of NERC shall be from independent
Regulatory Commission (NERC) fails to               sources. Timely implementation of TA under
operate in a manner consistent with the             PSP to ensure: (i) regulation rules are
regulatory framework due to lack of                  established without ambiguity; (ii) competent
independence, competent staff, and                  NERC staff are selected and adequate training
understanding by the consumers.                      and technical assistance are provided; and (iii)
stakeholder consultation to ensure understanding
and ownership by key personnel and all
categories of electricity users.
The TransysCo fails to improve the         M        Timely development and implementation of a
operating performance initially due to              Business Plan for the TransysCo:
lack of financial management skills and             (a) To provide adequate training to the
system operation technical expertise.               management staff;
(b) To install and use the Management
Information System (MIS); and
(c) To contract out the system operation
function.
- 26 -



From Components to Outputs
Schedule delays in implementing the          M          (a) Strengthening PMI by providing adequate
project due to inadequate project                       training in procurement, financial management,
management capability.                                  and project reporting throughout project
preparation and implementation;
(b) Ensuring effective coordination in planning
and implementing reform components; and
(c) Timely recruitment of consultants to carry
out the required studies and technical assistance.
Bank Procurement Guidelines not              M          (a) Procurement training provided throughout
followed leading to procurement delays.                 project preparation and implementation on a
continuous basis;
(b) Adequate staffing for handling procurement
at PMU; and
(c) Close monitoring by Bank's supervision
missions.
Overall Risk Rating                           S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Although the top level political will for reform remains srrong, the overall risk is assessed to be substantial.
Reform in Nigeria is in its infancy and is therefore fragile. The future of power sector reform depends to
some extent on whether NEPA can fulfill the President's public commitment to providing un-interrupted
power supply by the end of 2001. Despite significant investments in rehabilitation recently, frequent
blackouts and load shedding are still the norm. It will take time to fix this very run-down system, and the
public patience may wear out before restructuring and privatization are completed.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Achieving Financial Sustainability The Government recognizes that a financially viable power sector is
a precursor to economic growth and hence poverty reduction. The FGN-approved power sector sustainable
financial plan contains essential elements to achieve and maintain financial viability in the sector (see B2. -
Main sector issues and Government strategy). Tariff adjustment is a critical element of the plan.
The current average retail tariff is well below the cost of supply and there are large cross-subsidies (e.g.,
residential customers are heavily subsidized by industrial customers). An interim tariff adjustment
implementation plan is being prepared by NEPA with assistance from an intemational consultant and a
local social economics professor. Because of the current poor power supply, consumers are likely to react
strongly to a tariff increase. Several measures are built into the adjustment plan to make the tariff
increases more acceptable: (i) tariff increases will be staged and linked to power supply performance
improvements; (ii) a lifeline tariff will be maintained for poor households; and (iii) it is proposed that the
new tariff structure include a mechanism for automatic adjustment to ensure that tariffs are not eroded due
to the effects of changes in fuel prices, exchange rate movements and inflation. This will lead to future
gradual adjustments rather than dramatic step increases.
- 27 -



Retrenchment due to Restructuring and Privatization.  NEPA is overstaffed. The FGN is taking steps
to streamline the workforce of NEPA to prepare for restructuring and privatization. In the last quarter of
2000, NEPA laid off about 2,000 workers. The creation of a commercially oriented TransysCo will be the
first step in a process that ultimately will affect NEPA as a whole, although it will not initially have a
major impact on the number ofjobs, as most employees in the transmission and system operation
departments are technical staff. Mitigation measures include: (i) an overall framework of retrenchment
policy and severance packages will be developed by BPE; and (ii) dialogue with NEPA's Labor Union at an
early stage of project implementation as part of the public consensus building. Technical assistance in
change management will be financed under the proposed project.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Borrower and NEPA have signed the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
   NEPA has established Financial Management Systems for the project acceptable to the Association,
appointed a Financial Management Committee, appointed External Auditor(s) for the project and
developed Financial Management Procedures Manual.
*   The counterpart funds for the first year of the project have been deposited in a bank account.
* Standard Bank requirements shall apply, relating to legal opinions on the legal agreements executed by
the Borrower and the implementing agency.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Agreements reached with the Borrower
*   The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the project and the implementation of the
reform program as stated in the power sector policy paper and the power sector sustainable financial
plan.
*   The Borrower shall re-lend the proceeds of the credit to NEPA under a Subsidiary Agreement under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including an interest at a rate not less than 7.2 percent
per annum and repayment of principal in 20 years including a grace period of 5 years and the
assumption of the foreign exchange risk by NEPA.
*   The Borrower shall carny out the change management component of the project with due diligence and
efficiency.
*   The Borrower shall inform IDA of its plans on tariff pricing and overall development of the power
sector from time to time.
*   The Borrower will enable NEPA to achieve the financial restructuring targets in the power sector
sustainable financial plan.
- 28 -



Agreements reached with NEPA
* NEPA will implement the power sector sustainable finiancial plan in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
*   The PMU will be maintained with organization, staffi:ng and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
* The Project will be implemented according to the Project Implementation Plan.
* Upon the establishment of the TransysCo, NEPA shall:
I . Transfer to the TransysCo assets, liabilities associated with the assets, and obligations associated
with the transferred assets (transmission lines and substations, system operations, dispatch and
communication facilities, and associated property, interest in property, rights, and personnel) in a
manner consistent with the power sector policy paper.
2. Transfer to TransysCo its obligations under the Project Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in accordance with the power sector policy paper and with the consent of the
Association.
Financial Covenants
NEPA shall achieve for each of its fiscal years after its first fiscal year ending on December 31,
2001, a current ratio of 0.9 for fiscal year 2002, and 1.0 for fiscal year 2003 and thereafter.
NEPA shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 2002,
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 70%o for fiscal year 2003 and 17% for fiscal year
2004 and thereafter of the three-year annual average of NEPA's capital expenditures.
Disbursement Conditions
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for the contract for supply and installation of
the second phase of the SCADA/EMS/Communication systems until the draft Electricity Law has been
approved by the Executive Council of FGN.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for supply and installation of MIS until the
TransysCo has been established with staffing and institutional structure satisfactory to the Association,
including transfer of the PMU, and the TransysCo has assumed the obligations of NEPA under the Project
and Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Financial Reporting, Monitoring, and Auditing
* NEPA shall maintain and provide the Bank with quarterly project management reports.
*   Standard covenants for maintenance of accounts, audit, and submission of audited accounts within six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
- 29 -



*  NEPA shall submit to IDA its annual capital and recurrent budgets and a review of its compliance with
the financial covenants before the end of each fiscal year.
Environment
NEPA shall mitigate any adverse environmental effects in accordance with the Environmental
Mitigation Plan prior to reinforcement of transmission grid substations under the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Ol 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
FEl 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
In response to a request by the President of FGN, the preparation of the project started in July 2000. It
was not possible to complete the engineering documents in such a short period. To ensure quality,
international consultants have been engaged under PPF-funding to review and complete the
engineering/procurement documents prepared by NEPA. The consultant contracts were awarded in June
2001. The engineering design documents and procurement documents for goods will be completed by
September 2001. The procurement documents for the first large consultant contract (change management)
will be completed by August 2001. By the date of the planned effectiveness (September 30, 2001), the
project will be ready for the start of implementation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Junhui Wu\/                        M nanda Covindassamy                Mark D. Tomlinson
Team Lead'r                        Sector ManagerlDirector             Country Manager/Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
--Poverty alleviation      -Reduced FGN capital budget --CAS discussions and      --FGN resources no longer
supported by economic      subsidies: (US cent/kWh).    reviews.                  used to subsidize the sector
growth through privatization                                                      will be used for direct poverty
(to minimize public spending  2000 2002 2004 2006      --Portfolio reviews.       alleviation spending.
and subsidies in the power   2.8  3.2   2.0   0.8
sector) and improved                                  --Occasional Bank sector    --Private sector participation
infrastructure (to remove  --Incidences of total system    studies.               in the power sector will result
constraint on growth imposed collapse (of 330 kV Grid due                         in improved power
by poor power supply).     to transmission and system    --In-formation from       infrastructure.
operation faults).         supervision mission reports.
--Benefits from economic
2000  2002 2004 2006    --Utility statistics.          growth will be equitably
15    12    9      3                                shared.
Project Development        Outcome J Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
--Support the FGN overall   --TransysCo established and  --Charter and Articles of  --Transparent regulation,
program of power sector    able to attract commercial    Association for the       appropriate tariff levels and
reform and privatization by   financing by 2006.       TransysCo.                  functioning transmission
addressing the requirements                                                       system are necessary to attract
of the transmission and    --Open access to, and use of,  --Asset transfer agreement to  competitive private
dispatch sub-sectors,      transmission systems for   the TransysCo.              investment in generation and
specifically through:      generators, distributors and                           distribution.
large industrial consumers by  --Published tariff review and
(i) facilitating NEPA's    2006.                       tariff decision.
unbundling;
--Electricity wholesale    --Utility statistics.
(ii) establishing a        settlement system developed
transparently-regulated,   and operational by 2006.    --Quarterly progress reports
financially-viable,                                    by PMU.
commercially-operated      --Increased transmission
TransysCo with private     reliability:
participation;
(i) unplanned interruption
(iii) removing transmission    hours per 100 km per year at
network and system operation 330 kV:
constraints on provision of    2000  2002 2004 2006
reliable power supply; and    80    75    58   42
(iv) facilitating development
of an efficient wholesale
power market.
- 31 -



(ii) unplanned interruption
hours per 100 km per year at
132 kV:
2000 2002 2004 2006
210   180  150  120
--Reduced transmission losses
(i) Loss rate (%) at 330 kV
2000 2002 2004 2006
10.7  9.5  7.0  4.0
(ii) Loss rate (%) at 132 kV
2000  2002  2004 2006
12.0  11.0  9.0  8.0
--ERSU established and fully
operational within the
TransysCo by 2004.
- 32 -



i   Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives |       Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each         |Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Investment:           --Transformer capacity added,
cumulative (MVA).
--Transmission and        2003   2004   2005        --Quarterly progress reports.  --Continued Government
dispatching constraints    150    490    640                                  commitment to power sector
reduced and power system                            --Specific studies        restructuring and
operation reliability improved. --No. of grid meters installed, commissioned under  privatization.
cumulative.               Technical Assistance
2002   2003   2004        components.               --National Assembly's
10     90    170                                  approval of the new
--Supervision mission reports. Electricity Law.
--No. of grid protection relays
replaced, cumulative.     --Reports from consultant    --Timely tariff adjustment.
2002   2003   2004        studies.
10     20     30                                  --Capacity building and public
--Annual report of the    consultation lead to
--No. of transmission     TransysCo.                understanding and ownership
substations monitored                               by key personnel and all
(SCADA), cumulative.                                categories of electricity users.
2004 2005
10   30                                           --Competent staff are selected
for the NERC and the
--MIS installed and                                 TransysCo.
functioning by December
2004.
2. Technical Assistance:
--Preparatory work and   --Change management
training for operation of  program has facilitated
TransysCo completed,      re-employment of retrenched
TransysCo established and    NEPA workers.
operdtional.
--Transmission pricing study
completed by September
2002.
--Business Plan drafted by
December 2002.
--TransysCo fully operational
by December 2003.
--Training has been conducted
according to the training
.  program.                _
- 33 -



3. Social and
Environmental:
--ERSU staffed and training   --Social and environmental   --TransysCo management
--ERSU established and    underway by end-2002.      monitoring reports.        supports ERSU mandate.
operational.
--ERSU fully operational and  --RAPs and EIAs for any new
able to produce Social and    transmission projects.
Environmental Impact
Assessments in compliance   --Reports / proceedings from
with World Bank safeguard  training courses I workshops.
policies by end-2004.
--Awareness of AIDS/HIV
prevention increased.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Investment Component:  US$90.0 million
(a) Transmission substation                          Quarterly progress reports and Effective coordination with
reinforcement (including                             disbursement reports.      overall sector reform
reactive power compensation).                                                   implementation under PSP
Supervision mission reports.  (scheduling of different
(b) Grid metering.                                                              activities and liaison with the
major stakeholders).
(c) SCADA/EMS at NCC and
associated communication                                                        Timely recruitment of the
systems.                                                                        consultants to carry out the
required studies and provide
(d) Grid Protection.                                                            support to project
management.
(e) MIS for TransysCo.
Adequate staffing and
training of the PMU on
procurement, disbursement
________________._______ and financial management.
- 34 -



2. Technical Assistance   US$ 16.0 million
Component in Establishing a
TransysCo:
(a) TA change management.                            Specific studies commissioned
uncder Technical Assistance
(b) TA preparation and                               cornponents.
implementation of Business
Plan for the TransysCo.                              Supervision mission reports.
(c) TA transmission pricing.
(d) Engineering services.
(e) Institutional capacity
building (training).
(f) Power market development
and operation.
3. Social and Environment US$1.75 million
Component:
(a) Capacity building of                             Social and environmental
ERSU including collaboration                         monitoring reports.
with NACA.
Environment audit reports.
(b) Environment audits.
RAPs and ElAs for any new
transmission projects.
Supervision mission reports.
Note: Budget for each sub-component is omitted due to considerations of disclosure suitability.
- 35 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$89.95 million
Investment Components
The project seeks to redress certain network deficiencies and operational constraints of the Nigerian power
transmission system so as to allow the efficient dispatch and transmission of power in the National Grid.
In particular it will complement efforts underway for both emergency and longer-term measures now being
taken to increase generation supply. Investment components consist of:
(I a.)  Augmentations required at five main grid substations: Oshogbo, Kano, Onitsha, Alaoji and Benin;
and grid system reactive compensation.
(lb.)  Supply and installation of grid system metering at 132 kV to enable the measurement of power
supplied to unbundled distribution companies.
(Ic.)  Establishment of a new National Control Center (NCC) with SCADA/EMS facilities and
associated communications requirements.
(Id.)  Replacement of grid distance protection relays at seven substations of 330 kV and five generation
stations.
(le.)  Supply and installation of a Management Information System (MIS) for the new Transmission and
System Operation Company (TransysCo).
(la.)  Reinforcement of Grid Substations
Existing supply constraints in five major substations of the power system will be addressed under this
component.
Oshogbo Substation:
This substation will be augmented by one 150 MVA 330/132 kV transformer and associated 330 and 132
kV bays.
Kano Substation:
This substation will be augmented by one 150 MVA 330/132 kV transformer and associated 330 and 132
kV bays.
Onitsha Substation:
This substation will be augmented by one 150 MVA 330/132 kV transformer and associated 330 and 132
kV bays.
- 36 -



Alaoji Substation:
This substation will be augmented by one 150 MVA 330/132 kV transformer and associated 330 and 132
kV bays.
Benin Substation:
This substation will be augmented by two 45/60 MVA 132/33 kV transformers and associated equipment.
Grid system reactive compensation: The specific details of this sub-component will be determined by the
power system planning study to be carried out by consultants (funded by PPF) appointed in June 2001.
The main proposal currently under consideration consists of one 75 MVA shunt reactor at 330 kV at each
of the substations: Oshogbo, Kano, Onitsha, Alaoji and Benin.
ilb.) Grid System Metering
This component includes a grid system metering arrangement to enable the power supplied to new
distribution companies to be accurately metered. The details of equipment required and locations are being
determined under the consultancy assignment (funded by ]PPF). The expected arrangement consists of new
meters at each of the 132 kV bays of the 330/132 kV transformers of each grid substation. In many
substations new CTs and PTs are also expected to be required while in some the existing equipment will be
utilized.
(le. A new NCC with SCADA/EMS Facilities and Associated Communication Systems
A complete National Control Center (NCC) to be established on the premises of the presently defunct NCC
at Oshogbo is envisaged under this component. A single contract for supply, installation, testing and
commissioning of the NCC will form the main component under this item. Additional contracts will be
issued for associated communication upgrades as well as reinforcements required to the Remote Terminal
Units (RTUs) at grid substations. Identifying the specific requirements, developing specifications, and
packaging of contracts for the NCC and associated communication facilities will be carried out by
consultants appointed in June 2001 (funded by PPF).
The new National Control Center will be equipped to handle economic generation dispatch and
transmission system operations, to maintain system security and quality of power supply. It will be
equipped with state-of-the-art SCADA / EMS facilities and the capability to handle required
operator-to-operator communications and interface with other control centers such as the Area Control
Centers and the Supplementary National Control Center (SNCC) at Shiroro. The NCC will also be
equipped with the necessary hardware and software tools to support the envisaged power market
administration. The latter function will include market settlement facilities for power and energy supplies
and ancillary services in accordance with selected market operating principles.
The system design will be based on open system standards and involve distributed processing and
functional independence of the system components. Standard protocols will be used for connecting the
RTUs, exchange of information among control centers and other power market agents.
This component will also include strengthening of the existing communications system with additions and
improvements to the fiber optic networks, Power Line Carrier (PLC) and other communication channels
(e.g. VHF/HF radio, VSAT).
- 37..



(ld.) Replacement of Grid Distance Protection Relays
This sub-component is designed to improve transmission system reliability through replacement of the grid
distance relays, many of which were installed during the 1970's, with modem digital equipment and
ancillary facilities at seven 330 kV substations (Akangba, Oshogbo, Benin, Ajaokuta, Jebba, Kaduna,
Ajah) and five generation stations (Shiroro, Jebba, Egbin, Kainji, Sapele). The specific details of this
sub-component will be determined by the power system planning study to be carried out by consultants
(funded under the PPF) appointed in June 2001.
fle.) SuDDlV and Installation of a Management Information System (MIS) for TransysCo
A Management Information System (MIS) including hardware, software, and related services will be
procured and installed at the TransysCo headquarters and sites offices. The MIS will include functions for
financial management, operation and maintenance management. The design of the MIS and preparation of
the bidding documents will be carried out by the consultant to be engaged for preparation and
implementation of a business plan for the TransysCo funded under the proposed credit.
Project Component 2 - US$16.00 million
Technical Assistance Components are mainly designed to assist in: (i) establishing and operationalizing
the new TransysCo; (ii) developing transmission and system operation related to secondary regulations; and
(iii) establishing and operationalizing a wholesale power market.
(2a.)  Change Management. This item includes two major tasks: (i) initial activities associated with the
establishment of the new TransysCo (legal, economic, financial and management structure, etc.); and (ii)
development of a retrenchment program which may include training and incentives to facilitate the hiring of
retrenched NEPA workers by private sector firms that will provide services to the TransysCo (including
formation of such finns) or in other sectors of the economy.
(2b.)  Preparation and implementation of Business Plan for the TransysCo. This item is designed to
introduce appropriate accounting, budgeting and financial management systems in the TransysCo, produce
its initial Business Plan and provide assistance in implementation of the Business Plan. It will provide the
related consulting services for identifying adequate staffing and skills, developing a training program, and
developing the design and specifications for a Management Infornation System (MIS), including its initial
implementation - see also item 1 (e.) under investment components.
(2c.)  Transmission Pricing. This item includes a study to assist the TransysCo in developing a
proposal of transmission pricing methodology/structure and an implementation plan which will be
submitted to the regulatory agency as a basis for transmission (and ancillary services) pricing regulation.
(2d.)  Engineerine Services. This item provides consultancy support for the preparation of transmission
development proposals (transmission lines, substations, reaction power compensation, SCADA/EMS and
communication systems) including the investment components under the project. It may also include
feasibility studies, design and engineering, preparation of technical specifications and bidding documents
for various components.
- 38 -



f2e.)  Institutional Capacity Building. This item includes a training program designed to enhance the
TransysCo's managerial, legal, technical and financial capabilities. Training areas will cover sector
regulation, business/financial management, social/environmental issues, public outreach and technical
training on transmission maintenance and system operation. Technical training needs will mainly be
identified by consultants funded under the PPF. Managerial training needs will mainly be identified under
Component (2b.): Business Plan.
(2f)  Power Market Development and Operation. This item is envisaged to be implemented in two
phases. The first phase will provide assistance in preparatory work for establishment of a wholesale power
market including design, procurement and installation of suitable hardware and software for a power trade
settlement system. The second phase will involve assistance in operation of the power market and its
further development.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.75 million
Social and Environmental Component
An Environment. Resettlement and Social Unit (ERSUI) will be established at the outset of project
implementation. This unit will be transferred to the new TransysCo when established. Under this item,
funds will be provided to establish the ERSU, support its operation and to carry out staff training and
capacity building. The ERSU will have responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of project-related
environment and social activities, and for preparing, with the assistance of consultants when necessary,
EIA's and EMP's, and Resettlement Assessments and Action Plans for future projects. The ERSU will
address all of the TransysCo's investment operations and not be limited to project-specific work. The scope
of the ERSU's work also includes designing and supervising the environmental audits to determine the need
for remedial actions, if any, if past waste disposal methocds are found to have resulted in PCB
contamination of soil at the five substations to be reinforced under the project. The ERSU is also
responsible for designing, monitoring and supervising a program for HIV/AIDS prevention and awareness
in coordination with National Action Committee on AIDS (NACA). Provision to implement an HIV/AIDS
prevention and awareness program will be included in the bidding documents for all construction work
(rehabilitation and new lines and substations) and will commence with Bank-financed projects.
- 39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project 0: f   CostByomponent              US $miltion    US $Million    US $million
Substation Reinforcement                                     2.30         24.33         26.63
Grid Metering and Grid Protection                            0.50          7.50           8.00
SCADA / EMS / Communications                                 1.00         35.50         36.50
MIS for new TransysCo                                        0.20          5.00           5.20
Engineering Services                                         0.34           1.70         2.04
(a) TA Change Management                                     0.29           1.30          1.59
(b) TA Preparation and Implementation of Business Plan for   0.49          2.00          2.49
TransysCo
(c) Transmission Pricing Study                               0.00          0.25          0.25
(d) TA Power Market Development and Operation                0.00          5.00          5.00
(e) Capacity building for ERSU and Environment Audit         0.05           1.70          1.75
(f) Training                                                 0.88          3.75          4.63
PPF Refinancing                                              0.00          2.00           2.00
Total Baseline Cost                                          6.05         90.03         96.08
Physical Contingencies                                      0.42          7.23          7.65
Price Contingencies                                         0.23          5.74           5.97
Total Project Costs                6.70        103.00        109.70
Interest during construction                   3.65          3.65
Total Financing Required                 6.70        106.65        113.35
;;  u?  if;    0i0-   :  ;    !     :   :f;t0 t ::: ;Local:  Foretignf    V Tota X l
Proec Cost By CateoU m:$miion7  US $mion    US $million
Goods                                                          3.95          85.30         89.25
Works                                                          0.70           0.00          0.70
Services and Training                                          2.05          15.70         17.75
PPF Refinancing                                                0.00           2.00          2.00
Total Project Costs       6.70         103.00        109.70
Interest during construction                  3.65          3.65
Total Financing Required       6.70         106.65         113.35
Notes:
The cost estimates reflect early 2001 prices and are based on the recent tendering information available for
similar projects in the country and/or in the region with necessary adjustments. Physical contingencies are
calculated at 10 percent for goods and equipment. No physical contingency is made for consulting services
and training. Price-contingency allowances for costs expressed in US dollars are calculated according to
the anticipated international price increases of 2.5% for year 2001, 2.6% for 2002 and 2.5% for year 2003
and thereafter. The price escalation for costs expressed in local currency is calculated according to
projected local inflation rates of 6.9% for 2001, 6.2% for 2002, 5.6% for 2003, and 5.0% for 2004 and
thereafter. A prevailing exchange rate (US$1 = Ns 114) is used in the cost estimates.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 113.35 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 88.22% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-40 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                        Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial Analysis'
Analysis                     _         Taxes           Subsidies
Benefits:
USS                    346.7 million      302.6 million
Costs:
US$                    286.0 million      260.8 million
Net Benefits:
US $                    60.7 million       41.8 million
IRR:
.                        26.6               24.3
Notes: A discount rate of 12% is assumed to calculate present values for both economic and financial analyses.
Results of a fiscal impact analysis are provided in Section E2.
I~~~~~~
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic benefits and costs of the total project are summarized in the table below.
- 41 -



Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) Calculation for the Whole Project
Unit: million US$
Costs                                  Benefits                                 Net
Capital   0 & M   Associated    Total  Incremental Non-incremental Reliability  Total   Benefit
Year    Cost      Cost    Other Cost    Cost  Sales       Sales          Imwovement  Benefit
2000      0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00           0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
2001      7.67        0.00      0.00      7.67       0.00           0.00        0.00      0.00     -7.67
2002     30.57        1.15     23.00     54.72       1.83          21.73        7.26     30.83    -23.89
2003     23.38        1.15     25.22     49.76       5.73          21.73        7.26     34.73    -15.03
2004      11.11       1.15     27.50     39.76       9.77          21.73        7.26     38.76     -1.00
2005      4.02        1.15     30.32     35.48      14.77          21.73        7.26     43.76      8.28
2006      0.00        1.15     33.86     35.01      21.06          21.73        7.26     50.05     15.04
2007      0.00        1.15     38.06     39.21      28.51          21.73        7.26     57.51     18.29
2008      0.00        1.15     42.57     43.72      36.53          21.73        7.26     65.52     21.79
2009      0.00        1.15     48.19     49.34      46.49          21.73        7.26     75.48     26.15
2010      0.00        1.15     54.19     55.34      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     30.80
2011      0.58        1.15     54.19     55.92      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     30.22
2012      4.04        1.15     54.19     59.38      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     26.76
2013       1.16       1.15     54.19     56.50      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     29.65
2014      0.00        1.15     54.19     55.34      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     30.80
2015      0.00        1.15     54.19     55.34      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     30.80
2016      0.00        1.15     54.19     55.34      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     30.80
2017      0.00        1.15     54.19     55.34      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     30.80
2018      0.00        1.15     54.19     55.34      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     30.80
2019      0.00        1.15     54.19     55.34      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     30.80
2020    -18.49        1.15     54.19     36.85      57.15          21.73        7.26     86.14     49.30
EIRR                                                                                                   26.62%
NPV f.12%                                                                                                60.71
EIRR Estimates for Each Project Component
Component 1: Grid Metering
Benefits:   The grid metering project component is vital for the unbundling of NEPA and the operation of
power markets in the future. Its direct benefit is to facilitate the identification of transmission losses and
the introduction of better loss management. NEPA's metering is grossly inaccurate. It is reported in
NEPA's technical annual report that in 1998 the line loss rate for the transmission system was 9.7% and in
1999 the transmission loss rate was as high as 15.5%. These figures are totally off the normal scale for
transmission losses. The economic analysis has adopted a conservative approach by assuming that the
project will reduce technical losses by 0.3% annually (0.2% in the first year). This benefit is
non-incremental sales and has been valued using the average weighted supply cost of altematives without
the project.
Costs: The total capital cost of the component is US$5.5 million; the O & M cost is estimated at 1.5%
of the investment per year.
- 42 -



Component 2: SCADAIEMS
The control center Energy Management System (EMS) consists of five major elements:
* The Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA) system.
* The Automatic Generation Control (AGC) system.
* The energy management applications and database.
* The User Interface (UI) system.
* Associated communication systems.
Benefits: The major economic benefits of a SCADA/EMS system include:
* Improvements in system reliability. This could be realized by reducing both forced outages of system
elements (transmission lines, transformners and generators), and duration of outages.
* Improvements in system efficiency. This could be realized by reducing spillage from hydropower
plants, reducing fuel costs from thermal power plants by means of advanced forecasting and load
scheduling technologies, and reducing manual operations at substations and power plants.
According to NEPA' s technical annual reports, the average number of forced outages of transmission lines
in the past three years (1997 to 1999) are 356 times/year for the 330 kV system and 1350 times/year for
the 132 kV system. Considering a 20 hour average outage duration (including duration for both outages
and recoveries) and assuming that 20% of the outages caused load shedding, the average energy not served
in the past three years caused by the outages of transmission lines is 744 GWIL An effective SCADA
system will improve the reliability of the transmission system, by reducing the duration of recovery of the
outages. Assuming that the duration of transmnission line outages is 20% shorter with the proposed
SCADA system, the energy not served by the system will be reduced by about 148 GWh.
In the past two years, the average annual spilled energy from NEPA's hydropower stations was around
1500 GWh. Some of the spillage was caused by inaccurate forecasts of inflows and discharge plans. This
would be reduced with an effective EMS system. Assuming that only a 20% reduction in spillage can be
achieved, this would increase the energy supply from hydropower plants by 314 GWh. Hydropower is
much cheaper than generation by thermal power plants.
Costs:  The economic capital cost of the component is IJS$40.2 million. The 0 & M cost is considered
as 1.5% of the investment per year.
EIRR: The EIRR is estimated at 17.5%.
Component 3: Substation Reinforcement
Benefits:  The reinforcement includes the installation of new transformers and shunt reactors. The major
benefits will be:
* Increased capacity of the substations to meet both increasing demand and suppressed demand; and
* Improved reliability and stability of the power supply.
- 43 -



Costs:  The economic cost of this project component consists of three components - capital cost, 0 & M
cost of the project component and its associated incremental costs. The project-associated incremental
costs include the costs of generation, transmission, distribution and other related activities required to
produce and distribute the incremental energy to the end-use customer. The total capital cost of the project
is US$30.8 million. The costs include the reinforcements of Oshogbo, Kano, Onitsha, Alaoji and Benin
substations.
EIRR: The EIRR for this component is estimated at 31.3%.
Main Assumptions:
Project costs:
The following cost components have been considered in the analysis:
*   Investment cost of the project in constant 2000 prices.
*   Annual 0 & M costs: 1.5% of investment costs.
*   Related incremental costs. For example, the related incremental costs of a transmission project could
be the associated generation and distribution costs that have to be included since the benefits of the
project are valued at the end-consumer level. These incremental costs could include the appropriate
annualized capital cost of related generation and/or distribution projects andl/or transmission systems.
The economic analysis is carried out in constant prices: costs and benefits are in late 2000 prices and are
expressed in US dollars.
The capital cost estimates for all the project components have been expressed in terns of economic or
opportunity costs using shadow prices based on following principles:
*   Excluding taxes, duties and subsidies as well as price escalation and interest during construction.
*   Imported items valued at their CIF cost plus allowance for handling and transport.
*   Intemationally traded items valued at their FOB price.
*   Labor costs adjusted by conversion factor of 2.0 for skilled labor and 0.67 for unskilled labor.
*   Other non-tradable items adjusted by means of a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 1.0 as suggested
by the Country Economist.
Project benefits:
The measurable benefits of the project are in the form of non-tradable outputs which can be divided into:
*   Incremental sales: are sales to meet the demand of new customers or to meet the incremental demand
from existing customers; and
*   Non-incremental sales: are sales to meet the existing demand of existing customers.
- 44 -



Figure 4.1    Benefits of the Project
Price
-4 ------------         F        Swo                        Sw
p3 p1               __
D em and
Do D   2 D                      Q uantity
Figure 4.1 shows an indicative demand curve and the supply curves with and without the project. It can be
seen that, due to limited capacity of the system, NEPA can, only supply demand of DO at price of PO at
present. However, the total demand of the system is D2 arLd the difference between D2 and DO is supplied
by other alternatives of electricity supply, mainly auto-generators fired by diesel.
With the new project, NEPA can supply more demand at lower cost. The new demand under this condition
will be D3. The difference between D3 and D2 is incremental demand or incremental sales from the
project. Because the supply price with the project is lower than that without the project, customers
currently supplied by more expensive suppliers will shift back to NEPA's supply. This part of demand is
non-incremental demand or non-incremental sales from the project. It is indicated by the difference
between D2 and D1.
The total gross benefits of the project can be estimated by the area within C-D-E-D3-D2-Dl, of which the
area within D-E-D3-D2 represents the gross benefits of incremental sales, the area within C-D-D2-D I
indicates the gross benefits of non-incremental sales.
Valuation ofproject benefits:
The incremental sales have been valued through the weighted average demand price with and without the
project. The non-incremental sales have been valued through the average supply price with and without the
project.
Both demand and supply prices with the project have been estimated based on NEPA's financial
projections. The supply and demand prices without the project can be estimated by the cost of alternative
electricity supplies in the country.
It is understood that in Nigeria, the typical alternative electricity supplies for different group of customers
are:
- 45 -



*  Industrial and mining consumers: 500 to 1000 kVA diesel generators.
*   Commercial consumers: 19 to 47 kVA diesel generators.
*   Residential customers: 19 to 47 kVA diesel generators; and
* Farming consumers: 25 kVA diesel generators.
The supply cost of alternative electricity supplies has been estimated by their short run marginal cost, i.e.
marginal fuel cost plus variable 0 & M cost. The demand price without the project has been estimated
using the long run marginal cost of alternative electricity supplies. The results are summarized in Table
4.1.
Table 4.1    Demand and Supply Prices Without the Project
Supply Price            Demand Price
(US$/kWh)               (US$/kWh)
Residential                35%              0.077                    0.124
Commercial                25%               0.077                   0.123
Industrial                40%               0.061                   0.075
Average             _________               0.070                   0.104
As both demand and supply curves would not be linear as shown in Figure 4.1, the weighted average of
both supply and demand prices have been estimated as:
Weighted average supply price =
90% x (Supply cost with project + Supply cost without project) /2
Weighted average demand price =
90% x (Demand cost with project + Demand cost without project) / 2
The results of the estimates are shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2    Values of Benefits
With Project        Without Project         Weighted Average
(US$ / kWh)         (US$ / kWh)             (US$ / kWh)
Supply Price       0.0531              0.0703                  0.0555
Demand Price       0.0614              0.1040                  0.0744
EIRR calculation:
The EIRR for each project component has been estimated separately. These components include:
*  Reinforcement of 330 kV substations.
*   Grid metering; and
*   SCADA/EMS system at the NCC and associated communications.
- 46 -



In addition, the EIRR of the 'total project' 1/ has been estimated and sensitivity and risk analyses carried
out.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A risk analysis model has been used to produce a frequency distribution for the project EIRR. The EIRR
has been tested for sensitivity to key parameters. The analysis calculated the increase needed in these key
parameters for the NPV to switch from a positive value to a negative value and are shown in Table 4.3
below. As the table shows the EIRR is very robust and capital cost would need to increase by more than
250% or benefits would need to be reduced by about 70% for the project to become uneconomic.
Table 4.3     Sensitivity Analysis Resultsfor Economic Analysis
Parameter                               Break-even at 12% of EIRR
Capital Cost                                      249.40%
O&M                                              1303.00%
Associated Cost                                   129.30%
Benefits                                           71.60%
A quantitative risk analysis has been carried out for the project. The analysis is based on an assessment of
probability of occurrence of different values of key parameters i.e., capital / investment cost, other costs
associated with the projects (i.e. costs of associated generation, transmission and distribution which do not
form part of the project), 0 & M cost and the values of the benefits of the project. The risk analysis was
conducted based on assumed probability distributions of these four variables, as indicated in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4     Probabilities for Risk Analysis
The risk analysis indicates that the expected value of EIRR for the whole project is 25.7%, compared to
26.6% for the base parameters. The minimum and max:imum EIRR values obtained were 8.9% and 29.8%
respectively. The calculated standard deviation is 6.87%NO and the coefficient of variation is 0.302. The
probability of obtaining an EIRR for the whole project lower than the 12% discount rate used for the
economic analysis is less than 2.0%. This demonstrates the robustness of the project economics on the
basis of the data and assumptions presented.
Paraneter                   Chws /0i                                Probabir /o)
CKi Cost         -10       0      10      20       30      10      50       20      15       5
O&M              -10      -5       0       10      15      20      60       15       5
Assoiad Cost     -20     -10       0       5       10      10       30      50      10
Seneits          -20     -10       0       5       10      10      20       50      15       5
1/ Note: For the purpose of cost/benefit analyses, the scope of "total project" does not include two other
investment components, namely, the grid protection (US$3.25 mnillion) and a management information
system for TransysCo (US$6.31 million). It is considered that grid protection is imperative to protect the
power system networks and MIS is essential to operate a modem utility. For the former, the capital cost is
only a small fraction of the values of apparatus it is going to protect and its benefit of system reliability
improvement far exceeds its cost. Both components will be selected through comparison of alternatives and
procured through competitive bidding to ensure their technical feasibility and cost effectiveness.
- 47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
NEPA FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Years Ending December 31: 1998 through 2005
(In Billions of Current Naira)
1998   1999    2000    2001    2002   2003    2004    2005
Actual          Fore-
cast
Income Statement Items
Unit Sales (GWh)          11242.0 10339.0  9516.0  10256.0 12431.0 13298.0  14213.0 15389.0
Revenues                   18.9     33.3     30.7    38.0    68.3  101.9   114.3  136.2
Operating Income            2.0     (0.1)    (5.6)   (7.6)  (8.8)     8.8      7.7   13.6
Net Income                  0.9     (8.3)   (10.0)   (9.0) (14.6)     3.2      2.5    8.9
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources            5.0      0.7     (3.2)   (1.8) (0.3)      19.9    21.5   29.6
Borrowings                  2.2      1.7      2.1    17.0      3.8    3.7    15.4   21.8
Equity Contributions        -        2.2     24.4    53.8    51.3   27.5       5.7    6.4
Total Sources            7.2      4.6     23.3    69.0    54.8   51.1    42.6   57.8
Capital Expenditures        5.5      3.2     27.8    68.8    56.9   34.6    28.2   41.1
Working Capital Increase
(Decrease)                    1.5       1.0     (5.0)   (0.3) (7.2)     11.7     9.7    9.8
Dividends                   -        -         -       -       -       -       0.2    1.4
Debt Service                0.2      0.4      0.5     0.5      5.1    4.8      4.5    5.5
Total Applications       7.2      4.6     23.3    69.0    54.8   51.1    42.6   57.8
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets             41.1     45.5     46.4    30.4    29.8   33.6    37.2   44.7
Less Current Liabilities    (24.7)   (55.6)   (66.1)  (22.3) (28.6)   (20.8   (15.3)  (15.7)
Net Fixed Assets           27.9     34.7     61.0   127.3   177.0  205.8   228.5  265.3
Total Assets            44.3     24.6     41.3   135.4   178.2  218.6   250.4  294.3
Debt                       28.2     14.6     15.1    31.3    29.5   32.9    49.0   70.1
Equity                     16.1     10.0     26.2   104.1   148.7  185.7   201.4  224.2
Total Liabilities and Equity    44.3  24.6     41.3   135.4   178.2  218.6   250.4  294.3
Financial Ratios,
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue               10.8     (0.2)   (18.2)  (20.1) (12.8)     8.7      6.7   10.0
Net Income as a
% of Revenue                4.6    (25.1)   (32.6)  (23.6) (21.4)     3.1      2.2    6.5
Retun on Average Invested                      (17.0)   (8.6) (5.6)      4.5     3.3    5.0
Capital
- 48 -



Debt Service Coverage           2.2       0.2    _ (0. 8)    (0.4) (0.1)     4.1      4.6    5.2
Percent of Total Capital
Expenditures financed by Internal
Sources                         62%      37%      (5)%     (29)%    (7)%    10%     34%     43%
Current Ratio                   1.7       0.8      0.7      1.4      1.0    1.6       2.4    2.8
Debt as % of Total Capitalization   64%  59%      37%      23%      17%     15%     20%     24%
NiMeria: National Electric Power Authority (NEPA)
Principal Assumptions for Financial Proiections (2000 to 2005)
General
1.     The financial projections (2000 to 2005) are based on the latest available data and information
obtained from NEPA and other appropriate sources. The base data for 1999 and 2000 was obtained from
NEPA's audited financial statements for 1999, its approved budget for 2000 (as revised in April 2000 by
the new Technical Board) and the latest operational and financial data for 2000.
2.     The Government has embarked on a comprehensive power sector reform program that will lead to
the unbundling of NEPA into its core businesses of generation, transmission and distribution, and
eventually the privatization of its generation and distribution activities. Private operators will also enter the
generation market through ROT, EPP and IPPs. The privatization process is expected to start by mid 2003
and to be completed by 2006. However, critical decisions and necessary technical studies have yet to be
made or undertaken, such as: (a) the form of privatization (concession or outright sale and whether the
Government or State Governments will have an equity stake in the privatized businesses); (b) the evaluation
and separation of NEPA's assets and liabilities; and (c) a detailed tariff study to establish bulk and retail
tariffs. The future shape of the power sector, and of NEl'A in particular, is therefore unclear at this stage.
3.     For purposes of appraisal of the proposed project, financial projections have been prepared to
determine the likely revenue requirements of the power sector over the medium-term.
4.     The overriding principles of financial viability and commercialization of the combined NEPA and
its successor companies have been applied in the financial projections. Planned capacity additions by way
of ongoing rehabilitation work and through EPP and IPP contracts, the required large investments for
rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension of the transmission and distribution networks, together with
appropriate financial restructuring, downsizing, efficiency improvements, dividends and price indexation of
fixed assets (from 2000 onwards) have been considered in the financial forecasts. Future tariff levels are
set to ensure that NEPA and its successor companies are in a position to: (a) meet their debt service
obligations, which cannot be met under the present tariff levels; (b) pay for the power purchase costs of
EPP/IPPs; (c) finance from own resources a reasonable proportion of investment needs; and (d) provide
adequate retuans to private shareholders after privatization.
- 49 -



Macroeconomic Assumptions
5.    The underlying financial projections are prepared in current Nairas, using the following inflation
and exchange rate forecasts:
Table 1: Inflation and Exchange Rates
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Domestic inflation                     6.0%    6.9%    6.2%    5.6%      5.0%    5.0%
Foreign inflation                       1.9%    2.5%    2.6%    2.5%    2.5%    2.5%
Average exchange rate (Naira/1 US$)     102.3   111.9   116.3   120.0   123.3   126.3
Exchange rate at December 31 (Naira/I US$)  109.6   114.3   118.3   121.8   124.8   127.9
Source for inflation rates: World Bank
Exchange rates have been projected forward on the basis of inflation differential.
Energv. Losses and Sales
6.     Forecasts for energy sales for 2000 are based on actual generation figures. For future years, the
following assumptions have been made with respect to energy generation, purchases and sales:
Table 2: Available Capacity, Energy Sent Out, Losses and Sales
2001      2002       2003       2004       2005
Average Available Capacity (MR)
Own generation: Hydro             1,578      1,930      1,930      1,930      1,930
Thermal             1,680      2,536     2,536      2,536      2,536
AES (Enron) barges (EPP)          157        270       270        270        270
Aggreko & Geometric (Abuja EPP)    25        30         8         -          -
To be identified (EPP)            50         400       400        400        400
Oil Companies (IPP)               -          -         -          200        800
NESCO (co-generator)              15         15         15         15        15
Total average available capacity (MW) 3,505  5,181      5,159     5,351      5,951
- 50 -



Capacity Factors
NEPA plants: Hydro                 95%        95%to       95%        95%        95%
Thermal                45%        26%to      30%         28%        12%
EPP/IPPs                           80%        80.o       80%        80%        80%
Energy Sent Out (GWh)
NEPA plants: Hydro                 8,066      8,493       8,493      8,493      8,493
Thermnal               6,052      5,432      6,304       5,728      2,363
EPP/IPPs                           1,661      4,910      4,759       6,083      10,225
Total energy sent out (GWh)        15,779     18,835      19,556     20,304     21,081
Transmission & Distribution        35%       j34%        f32%        30%       {27%
Losses                            l              _       l          l_l_                   l
Energv Sales (GWh) 
Domestic                           10,043     12,217      13,084     13,999     15,176
Exports (constant)                 214        214         214        214        214
Total sales (GWh)                  10,256     12,431      13,298     14,213     15,389
Growth in Sales
Domestic                           8.0%       21.7%       7.1%       7.0%       8.4%
Exports                            -          -           -          -          -
Total                              7.8%       21.2%       7.0%       6.9%       8.3%
Note: the above figures include energy purchased from co-generators.
7.     Export sales to Niger (NEGELEC) are assumed to remain constant at their present levels. Due to
supply shortages, demand is constrained until August 2001. Thereafter, load growth is based on NEPA's
generation rehabilitation program and expansion plan and load forecast prepared in early 2000.
Electricity Tariffs for the Domestic Market
8.     The present weighted average tariff (excluding VIAT) is estimated at 3.2 N/kWh. Tariffs need to
be increased significantly in the short-term for NEPA to be financially viable. In order to avoid a one-off
large tariff increase in 2001, a phased tariff adjustment schedule is proposed for implementation,
accompanied by projected improvements in power supply. The schedule involves two equal nominal tariff
increases of 50% each on October 1, 2001 and July 1, 2002. From April 2003 onwards, electricity tariffs
-51 -



are assumed to be adjusted for the effects of forecast inflation and exchange rate movements. For this
purpose, NEPA's revenue requirements each year are split between foreign and local cost components,
averaging 39% foreign and 61% local, over the next five years.
9.     In addition, electricity tariffs are adjusted in "real" terms to meet the following financial targets
from 2003 onwards:
* A self-financing ratio of 10% in 2003 and 25% in 2004 and future years (defined as funds from internal
sources over average of three years' capital investments).
*   A working ratio of 0.67 times (defined as operating expenses, excluding depreciation and bad debt
provisions, over operating revenue).
* A current ratio of 1.0 times in 2003 and 1.25 times in 2004 and future years (defined as current assets
over current liabilities).
The above targets are designed to secure the financial viability of the power sector.
10.    The following table provides a summary of the likely tariff scenario over the next five years under
two debt restructuring options: (Option 1) - assumes the conversion of N 44.3 billion (US$396 million) to
equity of all overdue debt service up to 12/31/01; and (Option 2) - assumes that the overdue debt service
will be repaid in equal installments over the next five years commencing in 2002 (this is in the event that the
Government does not wish to write off the overdue debt service).
Table 3: Projected Tariffs
|Option |2001   2002  12003  12004  12005  | Cum]
"Real" tariffadjustment-cumulative in year    11     50%   150%    1%      -       6%     140%
L_____________________________   12                   50%    89%    -11%  -1%   4%        159%
"Nominal" tariff adjustment - cumulative in  1        50%    50%    7%     5%      11%    181%
y ear                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2       50%    89%    - 6%    4%     9%     202%
Average revenue 1/ for year in 2000 prices  e1        3.1    4.4    5.7    5.7    6.0
(USc/kWh)I
U2       3.1    4.8    6.4    6.2    6.5
Average tariff 2/ at 12/31 in 2000 prices    1       4.1    5.7    5.8    5.8    6.0
(USclkWh)ll
.USc/kWh)                            12        4.1    7.2    6.4    6.3    6.5
1/     For the domestic market.
2/     For the domestic market and excluding 5% VAT.
- 52 -



Under each of the above two options, NEPA will be expected to meet its debt service obligations to external
lenders as from 2002. In addition, NEPA would meet the interest costs of short-term borrowings of
US$43.4 million and Euro 126 million for the rehabilitation of Delta II and Afam power stations
respectively in 2001/2002. The financial projections attach[ed in Annex 5 are for Option 1 ("Base" Case).
Export Tariff
11.    Export tariff for sales to Niger (NEGELEC) is kept constant at current levels of US$36,000
monthly fixed charge plus a monthly demand charge of US$4.80 per kW. In addition, an energy charge of
2.40 USc/kWh is applied.
Lazos State Contributions to AES (Enron) EPP Capacity Costs
12.    In accordance with the agreement between NEPA and Lagos State, a contribution of
US$4.09/kW/month towards the capacity costs of Enron EPP is recognized as operating income. The
contributions are assumed to continue until the privatization of Lagos Zone distribution.
Financial Restructurin2
13.    The financial restructuring of NEPA's debt portfolio and other overdue obligations and the cleaning
up of the balance sheet is a key pre-requisite to privatization. In determining the future revenue
requirements of the power sector, the following financial restructuring package has been adopted in the
financial projections. It is further assumed that the restructuring will be made effective as of December 31,
2001 and will involve balances as of that date.
Table 4: Proposed Financial Restructuring 3/
Naira billion Equivalent
US$ million
Deferred debt service due to FGN 4/ up to 12/31/01                     44.3         396
Overdue VAT up to 12/31/00                                              2.1          19
Amounts due to NGC (difference between gas price charged by NGC         4.6          41
and 3 Naira/Mcf paid by NEPA since 1994) up to 12/31/00
Total umnet obligations of NEPA                                        51.0        456
Less: Electricity dues of FGN, State & Local Governments              - 19.7      - 176
Net Debt Restructuring                                                 31.3         280
31    All figures in the table are estimates and subject to verification after the year-end.
4/    This represents accumulated and unpaid debt service due to external lenders (IBRD, KfW, etc.).
Such obligations were met by FGN on behalf of NEPA. The debt to FGN has accumulated and is
fixed in Naira (converted at payment dates) and attracts no interest.
In addition to the above, it is assumed that FGN will settle: (a) NEPA's outstanding pension contributions to
12/31/00 of N 3.5 billion (estimate) over the next three years; and (b) costs of retrenchment in 2000 of N
2.8 billion (estimate).
- 53 -



Other Operating Revenue
14.    Other operating revenue (reconnection fees, service connection and excess service charges, etc.) is
assumed to increase in line with domestic inflation.
Operating Expenses
Capacity & Energy Charges of EPP & IPPs
15.    The following capacity paymnents and energy charges have been assumed:
Table 5: Capacity & Energy Payments for EPP & IPPs
IPP/EPP                Basis                   Capacity Payments         Energy Charge
Monthly per kW of
available capacity at 90%
AES (Enron) barges     Per signed contract     US$19.35                  None
(EPP)
Aggreko & Geometric    Per signed contract     US$21.18                  0.10 USc/kWh
(Abuja EPP)
To be identified (EPP)    Estimates            US$20                     None
Oil Companies (IPP)    Estimates based on ongoing US$14.60              None
discussions
NESCO (co-generator)   As per ongoing contract   Included in energy charge   0.80 USc/kWh with
annual escalation
Generation Fuel Prices
16.    Gas: It is assumed that NEPA and all other generators will be charged and pay for gas at the
following rates:
* 2001 to 2002 - at the present price of 11.31 N/Mcf, escalated by 8% per annum as per existing
charging arrangements with NGC, although NEPA has only paid 3.00 N/Mcf to date.
* 2003 onwards - at a constant price of 50 USc/Mcf. This is the assumed economic cost of gas supply.
17.    Diesel: The current price of 22.0 N/litre has been assumed to apply in 2001. Thereafter, the price
is fLxed in US cents and adjusted in line with forecast changes in international oil prices. On this basis, the
price of diesel is assumed at 16.8 USc/litre (-19%) in 2002, 15.6 USc/litre (-7.2%) in 2003, 15.3 USc/litre
(-1.5%) in 2004, and 15.1 USc/litre (-1.5%) in 2005.
- 54 -



Fuel Consumption Rates
18.    Average fuel consumption for NEPA plants is assumed at 12 cf/kWh for gas turbines and 0.22
litres/kWh for diesel plants 5/. For EPP/IPPs, the average consumption is assumed at 9.9 cf/kWh for gas
turbines and 0.22 litres/kWh for diesel plants.
Payroll Costs
Numbers of Emplovees
19.    Employee numbers are projected forward as follows:
Table 6: Projected Numbers of Employees
2001     2002      2003      2004      2005
Number of employees at December 31    34,614   32,614    30,614    28,614   26,614
Numbers retrenched                    1,000    2,000     2,000     2,000     2,000
The commercialization of all activities and eventual privatization of generation and distribution will
inevitably imply a heavy retrenchment of the present work force as NEPA is currently over-manned to a
large degree.
Averaae Payroll Costs
20.    NEPA's preliminary budgeted average monthly payroll cost for 2001 amounts to N 50,893. This
average cost is escalated in line with domestic inflation in future years. No allowance is made for any
"real" increases in pay. The average monthly payroll cost for 2001, as per NEPA's preliminary budget,
shows an increase of 49% over the current year. The large increase is mainly due to the 100% increase in
basic pay effective July 1, 2000.
Retrenchment Costs
21.    Provision is made for costs of projected retrenchment. It is assumed that FGN will pay for such
costs arising in 2000 and that NEPA will finance out of its own resources all future costs. Base
retrenchment cost of N 1 million 6/ (equivalent to US$ 10,000) per retrenched employee has been assumed.
The base cost in 2000 prices has been escalated in line with domestic inflation.
5/     There are no NEPA owned diesel plants in operation during the forecast period.
6/     Derived from a draft interim report of Electric Power Sector Implementation Committee (EPIC)
to the National Council of Privatization (NCP) dated July 2000, page 26.
-55-



Prepayment metering Costs
22.    It is assumed that private operators will install and operate the prepayment metering program. It is
also assumed that they will finance all capital costs (i.e. off balance sheet financing as far as NEPA is
concerned). The following installation program and costs have been incorporated in the financial
projections:
Table 7: Prepayment Metering Program
2001   2002   2003    2004    2005
Prepayment meters installed (in thousands)    240    245    259       322     293
Capital cost recovery (in US$ millions, 2000 prices) 2.2    6.8    11.5    17.0    22.7
Operator's fee (in US$ millions, 2000 prices)  0.6    1.9    3.2     4.8      6.4
Total costs (in current US$ millions)        2.9    9.2    15.9    24.0    33.0
The above calculations are based on the assumption that: (a) the cost of each installed meter is US$100; (b)
the capital cost is spread over eight years; and (c) a discount rate of 10% is used for financial calculations.
All Other Cash Operating Costs
23.    Latest estimates of expenditures for 2000 are forecast forward in line with domestic inflation plus
the following increases in "real" terms:
Table 8: Projected "Real" Increases in Operating Costs
2001    2002       2003     2004      2005
Repairs & maintenance for operations:
Generation                            60%      20%        20%      20%       -
Transmission                          -        10%        10%      10%       -
Distribution                          20%      20%        20%      20%       -
Administration                        20%      -          -        -         -
Transport & traveling                  -        10%        10%      10%       -
Administration & overheads                      -          10%      20%       -
24.    Although the above assumed increases in 2001 for repairs and maintenance costs appear large, the
resulting overall costs for 2001 are still below 1999 costs. Due to severe cash constraints, repairs and
maintenance costs in 2000 are expected to be very low. In recognition of past inadequate maintenance of
- 56 -



the network, costs will have to rise in real terns in the future. Similarly, transport costs should rise as the
current inadequate fleet of vehicles is brought up to the required levels and properly maintained.
Administration and overhead costs will also rise following unbundling and creation of various independent
and autonomous companies.
Bad Debts and Obsolete Stock Write-off
25.    Bad debts and obsolete stocks are assumed at the following rates:
Table 9: Projected Bad Debts and Stock Provisions
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Bad debts as % of current year's billing   20%  20%   14%     13%      13%      10%
Obsolete stock as % of closing stocks    0.75%    0.75%    0.75%    0.70%    0.60%    0.50%
Depreciation
26.    Depreciation is provided on opening gross book value of fixed assets at the following rates:
Table 10: Depreciation Rates
Existing at 12/31/00     Additions post 2000
Generation assets                         10.620/a 7/               6.67%
Transmission assets                        8.43%OK                  2.86%
Distribution assets                        9.13%                    4.00%
All other assets                          14.750%o                 20.00%
7/    Including civil works to 12/31/99.
The above depreciation rates for existing assets represent the actual average rates for 1998 and 1999.
Non Operatin2 Income - net
27.    Non operating income is escalated in line with domestic inflation in future years.
Commercialization and Corporate Income Tax
28.    NEPA is exempted from corporate income taxes umtil it is fully commercialized. It has been
assumed that full commercialization of the power sector will take effect as from mid 2003 by which time
separate generation, transmission and distribution companies will be established and fully functioning as
independent and autonomous companies. However, in view of the sector's heavy investment program and
consequently large capital allowances during the forecast horizon, the financial projections show that for the
power sector as a whole no corporate income taxes will arise up to 2005. The tax computations assume
that book values of fixed assets as of the commercializaticn date will be equal to the tax written-down
values. Deductions for capital allowances are based on rates currently in force. Corporate income tax rate
of 30% applies.
- 57 -



Dividends
29.    For purposes of the dividends payment analysis, privatization transaction will be completed as
follows:
* Generation - 50% in mid 2005 and 100% in mid 2006.
* Distribution - 20% in mid 2004, 50% in mid 2005 and 100% in mid 2006.
No distinction has been drawn between outright sale and concessions 8/. The following assumptions have
been made with respect to payments of dividends:
Table 11: Projected Dividends
Average share of         2004            2005      Total Dividends
revenue requirements                               (2004-2005)
(US$ millions)
Dividends as % of retail revenue
Generation                44%0f                             2%             2.0
Transmission              11%                -               -              -
Distribution              45%                5%             5%            11.2
Total                    100%                                              13.2
8/    Hydro generation may be let out on concessions.
It is assumed that 501/o of dividends due in any particular year will be paid in the same year and the
remaining 50% in the following year. It is assumed that the Government will not expect any returns (i.e.
dividends) on its equity investments.
Investments, Fixed Assets and Work in Proyress
30.    Projected investments and financing thereof are summarized in the table below. Total investments,
excluding IDC of US$65 million, are provided at US$1,946 million, comprising US$317 million for
generation rehabilitation and overhaul, US$1,130 million for transmission rehabilitation, reinforcement and
extension (including US$ 100 million for the IDA financed transmission development project), US$424
million for strengthening of the distribution network, and US$76 million for vehicles, computers, buildings,
etc..
Table 12: Summary Investment Plan (US$ millions)
2001    2002       2003   2004    2005   2001-2005
Investments in:
Generation                       236.9   30.2        10.0   20.0    20.0   317.1 (16%)
Transmission                     339.6   396.6       198.9  114.2   80.4   1129.7 (58%)
Distribution                     27.9    50.0       61.5   76.8    207.6  423.8 (22%)
Administration                   10.5     12.5       17.5   17.5    17.5   75.5 (4%)
- 58 -



Total Investments                 614.9   489.3       287.9  228.5   325.5  1946.1 (100%)
Financing Plan:
FGN                              444.9   474.4       219.4  29.8    3.3    1171.8 (60%)
Borrowing                         152.4    - 11.0 9/  30.7   87.1    61.0   320.2 (17%)
Private Capital: Borrowing            -              -       37.6   111.5  149.1 (8%)
Equity Contribution    -      -         -       16.1    47.8   63.9 (3%)
Internal Generated Revenue        17.6    25.9       37.8   57.9    101.9  241.1 (12%)
Total Financing                    614.9   489.3      287.9  228.5   325.5  1946.1 (100%)
2/    Bridging finance for generation rehabilitation works drawn in 2001 and refunded by FGN in
2002 (US$43.4 million) gives rise to a net credit borrowing.
31.    The investment program is based on NEPA's plans. It excludes all new generation investments,
under the assumption that these will be undertaken by IPIPs in the future. Distribution investment plan is
assumed to support 6000 MW available capacity flow through the distribution network.
32.    The assumed financing plan for the projected investments is detailed in the following table:
Table 13: Investment: Financing Plan
2001     2002      2003      2004     2005
Generation rehabilitation
FGN & Borrowing                           99%       95%       70%      70%       -
Private capital                           -         -         -        -         70%
Internal Generated Revenue (IGR)          1%        5%        30%      30%       30%
Transmission
FGN                                       95%       89%       80%       14%      4%
Borrowing                                 3%        8%        15%      76%       76%
Private capital                                 _
Internal Generated Revenue (IGR)          2%        3%        5%        10%      20%
Distribution
FGN                                       90%       90%       80%      -
Private capital                           -         -         -        70%       70%
Internal Generated Revenue (IGR)          10%       10%       20%      30%       30%
Administration (Vehicles, buildings,
computers, etc.)
FGN                                       48%       40%       29%      -
Private capital
Internal Generated Revenue (IGR)          52%       60%       71%       100%     100%
33.    Assets under construction are shown under work, in progress in the balance sheet. Costs of assets,
including interest during construction, are transferred frorm work in progress to fixed assets on their
commissioning.
- 59 -



34.    Fixed assets in NEPA's audited financial statements to December 31, 1999 are stated at historical
costs less accumulated depreciation. No reevaluations have ever been reflected in NEPA's books. Fixed
assets in the projected balance sheet from 2000 onwards are indexed to inflation and exchange rates, as
forecast. Costs of all fixed assets are assumed to be split 70% foreign and 30% local. Revaluation
surpluses on fixed assets are taken to equity. All exchange losses on long-term loans are set-off against
fixed assets revaluation surpluses.
New Connections. Customer Contributions and Security Deposits
35.    In line with NEPA's current plans, no connection charges or customer contributions have been
recognized, as these will be recovered through monthly fixed charges in the future. The purpose of such a
policy is to discourage illegal connections and assist customers, especially residential, to get connected to
the grid. Similarly, security deposits from new customers are ignored up to 2002 10/. From 2003 onwards,
customer deposits are recognized at one month's average billing per new customer.
10/   Curiously the financial statements for the last two years show declining deposit balances in
overall terms. No satisfactory explanation could be obtained for this.
EPP/1P Security Deposits
36.    Security deposits, as required under the terms of PPAs, are set aside in the balance sheet.
Accounts Receivable and Payable
37.    Accounts receivable and payable at the balance sheet date are forecast as follows:
Table 14: Receivable and Payable
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Collection Rates based on Year's Billing (Domestic)    80%    80%    83%    85%    88%    90%
Days' receivable: Domestic                      136    111    71       53     44      37
Exports                          140    100    60       45     30      30
Accounts payable                                93      90     90      75      60     30
PAYE and VAT payable - current dues             30      30     30      30      30     30
Project creditors financed from own resources   40      40     40      40      30     30
It is assumed that NEPA will meet all its obligations, including pension contributions and taxes, from 2001
onwards.
Other Debtors and Prepayments
38.    Other debtors and prepayments as at 12/31/99 are assumed to increase in line with domestic
inflation in future years.
- 60 -



Stocks
39.    Stocks of goods and materials at the balance sheet date is forecast at 35% in 2000, 15% in 2001,
8% in 2002, 6.5% in 2003, 6% in 2004 and 5.5% in 2005 of the closing gross book value of fixed assets.
It is assumed that better inventory management will lead to lower stock holding. The declining percentages
are partly explained by the fact that heavy rehabilitation investments and price indexation of book values of
fixed assets from 2000 onwards are increasing the underlying gross fixed asset values
Longl-term Loans and Deferred Debt Service (principal and interest)
40.    The financial restructuring of overdue debt service is described above. It is assumed that NEPA
will meet all its debt service obligations from 2002 onwards, including debt service due on existing loans of
IBRD and KfW. For all proposed future borrowing, the following terms have been assumed:
Table 15: Terms of New Borrowing
Transmission (including   Generation Rehabilitation &
Onlent IDA loan)        Distribution (July 2003 onwards)
Interest rate per annum               7.2%                     12%
Interest grace                        5 years                  None
Repayment grace                       5 years                  1 year
Repayment period (including grace period)  20 years            8 years
Exchange risk                         NEPA/TransysCo           Generation & Distribution
_    Companies
After privatization, it is assumed that private investors will finance investments in generation rehabilitation
and distribution as follows:
Private capital - 70% (of which 30% will be equity contribution and 70% borrowing).
Internal generated revenue - 30%.
Government Support
41.    Apart from investment financing (as indicated in Table 12 above), debt restructuring (i.e.
conversion of debt obligations to equity, as indicated in Table 4 above) and settlement of outstanding
pension contributions and retrenchment costs of N 6.3 billion up to 12/31/00, no further support is provided
for in the financial projections. It is assumed that exemplions from customs duties on imported materials
for the power sector will continue throughout the forecasi period.
- 61 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Procurement
General
1.    Procurement of all goods, supply and installation of plant and equipment and services to be
financed under the IDA Credit will be procured in accordance with the appropriate Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, (January 1995 and as revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consulting services by firms or individuals to be financed by
IDA will be awarded contracts in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, (January 1997 and as revised in September 1997 and January
1999). The appropriate World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for all International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) with any appropriate modifications, will be used.
The World Bank's Standard Request For Proposals (RFP) will be used for the selection of consultants. For
details on project costs by procurement arrangements refer to Table A.
2.    Procurement Organization and Capacity Assessment: Procurement of all goods, supply and
installation and consultant services under the project will be the responsibility of the National Electric
Power Authority (NEPA). A formal procurement capacity assessment of NEPA and the Federal Ministry
of Power and Steel (FMPS) has been carried out and finalized during the appraisal mission in March 2001,
in accordance with World Bank procedures. The major findings, recommendations and agreed actions are
summarized below:
3.    The overall procurement capacity of NEPA is low and has been rated high risk, and there are
serious weaknesses in its current procurement systems, including lack of enforcement and implementation
of the appropriate legislation. Besides, most of the NEPA procurement staff members are not familiar with
World Bank guidelines and procedures due to the fact that there has not been IDA-funded project executed
by NEPA for a long time. However, NEPA is currently undergoing a fundamental reform and
restructuring as part of the Government's overall power sector reform program. It was proposed that
NEPA's procurement regulations be changed in the interim to make them more transparent, economic and
efficient.
4.     To ensure compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines, it was agreed that procurement of all
goods, supply and installation, and services under the project will be managed by the PMU with assistance
from qualified consultants. This organizational arrangement will ring-fence project procurement activities,
to a large extent, from the rest of NEPA. Other measures include: (i) intensive training provided to PMU
staff responsible for handling procurement; and (ii) engaging consultants to assist PMU. To date, more
than 25 higher level staff members from NEPA and FMPS have attended various procurement workshops
and courses sponsored by the Bank taking place in Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya. The PMU also requested
and the Bank agreed to assist PMU in identifying suitable training courses on contract management. It was
planned that PPF-funded consultants would be engaged before the effectiveness of the credit to assist in
setting up the format of project implementation progress reports in which procurement planning and
contract management is an important aspect. It was observed during the assessment that there is no proper
procurement filing system in NEPA and documents were scattered everywhere and even though they
existed, it was very time consuming locating them. The PMU has now moved to a new office building and
- 62 -



is in the process of hiring a filing clerk who will be trained, to file, monitor and track all procurement
documents, using the World Bank's procurement data management procedures. To further strengthen
PMU's procurement capacity, it was also agreed that procurement training will be provided on a regular
basis throughout project implementation.
5.    The procurement capacity of FMPS is weak and has been rated high risk. Even though FMPS will
not handle the procurement aspect of the project, there is a need for FMPS staff to be knowledgeable in
World Bank procurement procedures. Several staff membiers of FMPS participated in the World
Bank/Federal Ministry of Finance sponsored procurement workshop held in Abuja from December 1 1 - 15,
2000. It was recommended that FMPS provide procurement training on a regular basis (available within
the region at GIMPA, Ghana and in Nigeria) for staff involved in the project, and implement a proper
record keeping system.
6.     Advertising: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the UN Development
Business (UNDB) on August 16, 2000. It indicated all the procurement contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or more where the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) method of
procurement would be used. The GPN will be updated annually. All consultancy assignments estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more will be advertised in an international newspaper and in the
UNDB. In addition, expressions of interest may be sought from prospective consultants by advertising in a
national newspaper and or technical magazines. In the case of assignments estimated to cost US$ 150,000
or less the assignment may be advertised nationally and the short list may be made up entirely of national
consultants provided that at least three qualified national firms or individuals are available in the country
and foreign consultants who wish to participate, are not excluded from consideration.
7.    Procurement Planning: A final Overall Procurement Plan (OPP) for goods, supply and
installation of plant and equipment and consultant services which forms part of the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) was reviewed at appraisal and finalized at negotiations. The OPP includes relevant information
on goods, supply and installation of plant and equipment and consulting services as well as the timing of
each milestone in the procurement process. The first year's Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) was also
agreed upon during negotiations. The DPPs for the remaining years of the project, indicating the
procurement method and processing time for each contract, will be submitted to IDA every year for its
review and comments not later than three months before the end of each fiscal year.
- 63 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS AND PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ MILLION EQUIVALENT)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB        NCB    Other        N.B.F. 4   TOTAL
COST
1. Civil Works                           0.00      0.70       0.00        0.00        0.70
(0.00)    (0.00)      0.00      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Supply and Installation              89.95      0.00       0.00        0.00       89.95
(85.96)    (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)    (85.96)
3. Goods                                 0.00      0.00       0.13        0.00        0.13
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.13)      (0.00)      (0.13)
4. Services                              0.00      0.00      14.32        0.00       14.32
Consultants                          (0.00)    (0.00)   (10.16)       (0.00)    (10.16)
5. Training                              0.00      0.00       4.63          0.0       4.63
(0.00)    (0.00)    (3.75)      (0.00)      (3.75)
Total Project Cost                      89.95      0.70      19.08        0.00      109.70
of which IDA-Funded Cost               (85.96)    (0.00)   (14.04)       (0.00)   (100.00)
Note:
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes goods to be procured through national or intemational shopping, consulting services, various
training packages/modules, technical assistance services.
3/ The numbers indicating IDA Credit financing include amounts advanced by the PPF for consultancy services
and training totaling US$2,000,000.
4/ "N.B.F." means Not Bank Financed.
- 64 -



8.    Procurement Method: All contracts for supply and installation of plant and equipment estimated
to cost more than US$ 100,000 equivalent will be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). This includes the substation reinforcement at five substations in Oshogbo, Kano, Onitsha, Alaoji
and Benin and shunt reactors (75 MVA shunt reactor at Oshogbo substation); grid metering (132 KV); grid
protection; MIS for New TransysCo; Phase 1: upgrading of SCADA/EMS & communications equipment;
and Phase II: upgrading of SCADA/EMS & communications equipment.
9.    Goods and Equipment: All goods and equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent may be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The standard bidding document
for NCB will be submitted to IDA by NEPA for prior review. The approved document will form the basis
of all NCB procurement under this project. The procurement of environmental testing equipment,
environmental monitoring equipment (Lot 1) and environmental monitoring equipment (Lot 2) and goods
such as AIDS and HIV Prevention material estimated to cost US$30,000 equivalent or less per contract, up
to an aggregate value of US$120,000 equivalent may be procured through the Shopping (IS/NS)
procedures as detailed in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Procurement of Consultant Services
10.   Procurement Methods: As a rule, consultant services would be procured through Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. All consulting service contracts estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms will be awarded using the QCBS method. Consulting service
contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 1 00,000 for firms may be awarded through the Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) selection method in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
For contracts of a routine nature estirnated to cost less than US$100,000 and where well established
practices and standards exist such as financial audits, Least-Cost selection method may be used. All
consulting services of individual consultants will be procured under individual contracts in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. In exceptional cases, Single-Source selection
would be used in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11. The short list of consultants
for services estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7.
11.   Training: It is envisaged that there will be various training packages/modules estimated to cost
US$3,750,000 equivalent in total. The training will generally cover individual training attached to specific
institutions (specialized training), group training, on-the-job training of technical staff assisted by
consultants and intemational experts; and hiring consultants for developing training materials, conducting
training, and support for training activities through seminars, workshops and training abroad based on
individual needs as well as group requirements. A detailed training program giving categories of training,
number of trainees, duration of training, staff months, timing and estimated cost etc., will be submitted to
IDA for review and approval prior to initiating the training process. The appropriate methods of selection
will be derived from the detailed schedule.
- 65 -



Table Al: Proposed Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
SELECTION METHOD
Consultant Services  QCBS  QBS    SFB    LCS         CQ    Other    SS      N.B.F.  TOTAL
Expenditure Category                               I                                   COST
A. Firms        11.82   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     11.82
(8.82)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (8.82)
B. Individuals    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00      0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)
C. Training      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.63    0.00    0.00     0.00      4.63
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.75)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)    (3.75)
TOTAL          11.82   0.00    0.00    0.00    4.63    0.00    0.00     0.00      16.45
IDA TOTAL        (8.82)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.75)*  (0.00   (0.00)   (0.00)   (12.57)
Note:  QCBS           Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   =       Quality-Based Selection
SFB    =      Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS           Least-Cost Selection
CQ     =       Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  =      Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
SS     =      Single Source
N.B.F.        Not Bank financed
* Total value under CQ method of selection may be changed when all the appropriate methods
of selection are determined from the detailed training schedule.
Review by IDA
12.    Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each supply and installation contract estimated to
cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more will be subject to IDA prior review as per Appendix I of the
Guidelines. All other contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of Appendix
I of the Guidelines. All terms of reference, all consulting contracts exceeding US$50,000 for individuals
and US$ 100,000 for firms, and all training will be subject to IDA prior review. All TORs, all single
source selection - regardless of value, assigmnents of a critical nature as determined by IDA or
amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the prior review thresholds, will be subject to
IDA prior review.
- 66 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category       Contract Value Threshold   Procurement Method       Contract Subject to
(US$ thousands)                                   Prior Review
1. Supply and Installation        Equal or greater than 100        ICB                      All
2. Goods
HIV/AIDS prevention              Equal or less than 30         Shopping           None (post review)
Material
Environmental Testing,           Equal or less than 30         Shopping           None (post review)
Monitoring Equipment
(Lots I and 2)
3. Services (Consultant)
Firms                          Equal or greater than 150        QCBS                     All
(International
Advertisement)
Less than 150 but equal or       QCBS                     All
greater than 100     (National Advertisement)
Firms                               Less than 100                CQ               None (post review)
(National Advertisement)
Individuals                    Equal or greater than 50          IC                      All
Less than 50                 IC               None (post review)
Individual/Firrns                No thresholds (All)             SS                      All
4. Training                      Various Training Packages/      Various              To be determined
Modules
NOTE:
ICB            =       International Competitive EBidding
IS             =       International Shopping
NS             =       National Shopping
QCBS           =       Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ             =       Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
IC                     Individual Consultants
SS                     Single Source
1/ A detailed training program giving categories of training, number of trainees, duration of training, staff
months, timing and estimated cost etc., will be submitted to II)A for review and approval prior to initiating the
training process. The appropriate methods of selection will be derived from the detailed training schedule.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$99.5 Million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:         High
The frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Three in the first year of implementation and at
least two in the subsequent years. (This includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
- 67 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category               Amount in SDR       Financing Percentage
Supply and Installation                 57,500,000     100% of foreign CIF expenditures
100% of local ex-factory expenditures
90% of other local expenditures
Goods                                     100,000      100% of foreign CIF expenditures
100% of local ex-factory expenditures
90% of other local expenditures
Consultants' Services and Training      12,000,000     100%
Refund of Project Preparation Advance    1,600,000
Unallocated                              7,400,000
TOTAL Project Cost                      78,600,000
Disbursement Arrangements
13.   The IDA Credit of US$ 100 million equivalent will be made to the Federal Government of Nigeria.
The Government will on-lend US$98.7 million equivalent to the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA)
on terms specified in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The remaining portion of the Credit (US$1.3
million) will be assigned to the Federal Ministry of Power and Steel (FMPS) that will manage the
component of TA change management. For the components managed by NEPA, the implementing agency
would be required to adopt Quarterly PMR-based disbursement procedures using the Special Account
facility 18 months after the effectiveness of the credit (i.e. by April 1, 2003 at the latest). In cases where
country/project circumstances warrant, direct payment and/or special commitment procedures may be
allowed as specified in the Credit Agreement. Given the fact that the propeeds of the funds assigned to
FMPS will finance the change management component of the project that will be awarded as a single
contract, disbursement of funds for this component will be made on the basis of direct payment according
to the payment arrangements specified in the contract. Hence FMPS would not need a Special Account.
- 68 -



14.   The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed against 100% of foreign expenditures for
supply and installation and goods, while the percentage of financing would be 90% if same are procured
locally. For consultants' services and training the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed 100%.
As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be completed in four months
after the project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation.
Special account:
15.   To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for goods, training and services, the Federal
Ministry of Finance will arrange with NEPA the opening of a Special Account in a commercial bank to
cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by NEPA according to
the terms and conditions specified in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account would be US$3,500,000 covering an estiniated four months of eligible expenditures
financed by IDA. NEPA will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with
appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of
expenditures for the NEPA component should be paid through the Special Account.
16.   The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a
monthly basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as may be required until
April 1, 2003 after which further deposits to the Special Accounts will be on a quarterly basis as
determined through the Project Management Reporting System. All disbursement will be channeled
through Special Account and in lieu of Special Account, the borrower may choose to pre-finance project
expenditure and seek reimbursement from IDA.
Use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs)
17.   All application to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for: (i)
expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 for consulting firms and supply and
installation of goods, and US$50,000 or less for individual consultants and training, which may be claimed
on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures
claimed against SOEs will be retained by the PMU and NEPA and will be available for review when
requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements are subject to the
conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
- 69 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
PF!rojetSchedule                            i     Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                          12
First Bank mission (IdentIfication)            07/01/2000                   07/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    02/19/2001                   03/03/2001
Negotiations                                   03/26/2001                   05/01/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/30/2001
Prepared by:
National Electric Power Authority (NEPA), Federal Ministry of Power and Steel (FMPS) and the Bank
project Team.
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility of US$2.0 million, NEPA contribution US$30,000 equivalent and Bank
Budget
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Junhui Wu                         Senior Power Engineer and Team Leader, (AFTEG)
Wendy Hughes                      Energy/Environment Specialist, (AFTEG)
Chrisantha Ratnayake              Senior Power Engineer, (SASEG)
Helena Mamle Kofi                 Procurement Analyst, (AFTEG)
Karen Hudes/T. Mpoy-Kamulayi      Senior Counsel, (LEGOP)
William Marke/Hovsep Melkonian    Lead Financial Management Specialist, (LOAG2)
Anthony Martin Hegarty            Senior Financial Management Specialist, (AFTQK)
Rogati Kayani                     Senior Procurement Specialist, (AFTQK)
Bayo Awosemusi                    Procurement Specialist, (AFC12)
Karen Rasmussen                   Lead Financial Analyst, (AFTEG)
Paivi Koljonen                    Senior Energy Economist, (AFTEG)
Lily Wong Chun Sen                Team Assistant, (AFTEG)
Quality Assurance Team
Nelson de Franco                  Peer Reviewer/Lead Power Engineer, (LCSFE)
Kari Nyman                        Peer Reviewer/Lead Energy Specialist, (SASEG)
Jaime Biderman                    Lead Operation Specialist, (AFTQK)
- 70 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan (May 2001).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Project Appraisal Document, Procurement Capacity Assessment Report.
* Financial Management Assessment Report (December 2000).
C. Other
* Power Policy Paper approved by the Federal Government of Nigeria (March 2001).
* Power Sector Sustainable Financial Plan approved by the Federal Government of Nigeria (April 2001).
* Terms of Reference for Engineering Study for Design, Procurement, and Implementation of National
Dispatch Center and Area Control Centers for NEPA (July 2000).
*   Terms of Reference for the Medium-Term Transmission Planning Study (July 2000).
* Report on NEPA Interim Retail Tariff Study (April 2001).
* Report on Economic Evaluation of the Investments for the Transmission Development Project (April
2001).
* Environrmental Assessment and Environmental Policy Framework Evaluation of the Nigeria Power
Transmission Development Project (February 2001).
* NEPA's Financial Performance Review and Forecast (April 2001).
*   Draft Terms of Reference for Change Management (December 2000).
*   Draft Terms of Reference for Developing a Business Plan for TransysCo (December 2000).
* Draft Terms of Reference for Drafting Grid Code (December 2000).
*Including electronic files
- 71 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                  disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                           IBRD          IDA                            Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P09086        2001 Community Based Poverty Reduction                      0.00      60.00                               0.00      59.49        0.67       0.00
P066571        2000 SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                       0.00      55.00                               0.00      51.52       18.56       0.00
P065301        2000 ECON.MGMT.CAP.BLDG.                                    0.00      20.00                               0.00      15.44       -0.34       0.00
P064008        2000 SMALL TOWNS WATER                                      0.00       5.00                               0.00       3.93       -0.65       0.00
P002084        1991 WATER REHAB                                          256.00       0.00                               0.00      17.29       17.29      17.29
Total:      256.00       140.00                             0.00       147.68      35.52       17.29
- 72 -



NIGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997               AEF Radmed                    0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Telipoint                 0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Vinfesen                  1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Abuja Intl                    1.75    0.71    0.00    0.00    1.75    0.71     0.00    0.00
1964/66189         Arewa Textiles                0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
2000               CAPE FUND                     0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00    0.00
2000               Diamond Bank                 20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               FSDH                          0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00
1981/85/88        Ikeja Hotel                    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00
1993               Tourist Co Nir                0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00
1998               AEF Ansbby                    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/98            AEF Bailey Bridg              0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Courdeau                  0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Ekesons                   0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Eterna                    0.66    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.66    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Global Fabri              0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Hercules                  1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Hygeia                    0.38    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.19    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Mid-East                  0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00
1997               AEF Moorhouse                 1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Oha Motors                0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       29.21     9.63    2.62    0.00    17.89    4.38    2.62    0.00
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              AEF Gurmeet                       0.70     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              AEF SafetyCenter                  0.50     0.00      0.08      0.00
1995              AEF-NABEGU CO.                    1.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              Citibank Nigeria                 40.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              FSB                              22.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              GTB                              20.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              IBTC                             20.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      104.70      0.00      0.08     0.00
- 73 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                             Saharan       Low-    I
Nigeria    Africa   Income       Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        123,9        642      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                       310        500       410
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                         38.4       321       988
Average annual growth, 19934S9                                                                            T
Population fSO                                            2.8       2.6        1.9
Labor force a)                                           2.8        2.6        2.3      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estinate (tatest year available, t993-91                                    capita                        enrollment
Povertv (% of population below nationsl poverty line)     66
Urban coDulation (% of total population)                  43         34        31
Life exoectancy at birth (vears)                          53         50        60
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                  76         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                39         32        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source t% of population)         39         43         64
Illiteracy(% of population age 15+)                       37         39        39
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-a go population)     98         78        96             -     igena
Male                                                   109         85       102                    Low-income group
Female                                                  87         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratios'
GDP fUSS billions)                             47.3     23.8       32.2       34.1
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                  22.1      17.7      28.3       24.2
Exports of noods and services/GDP              24.8     32.7       33,2       36.5                      Trade
Gross domestic savinps/GDP                     27.8     25,3       23.4       18.4
Gross national savin4slGDP                     26.4      17.0      18.6       13.0
Current account balancelGDP                     3.5      .)0        -9.7     -11.2      Dmsi
Interest oavments/GDP                           0.5      6.2        4.6        5.7      Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 13,2    126.3       87.9       92.8      Savigs
Total debt service/exDorts                      2.2      20.9      37.7       31.1
Present value of debt/GDP                                          91.2
Present value of debtlexports                                     261.7
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(average annuia growth)
GDP                                   0.2       2.7       1.8        1.0       2.5                    Nigeria
GNP per capita                        2.7       0A4     .1.9        0.2       -0.2                    Low-income group
Exports of aoods and services        -3,6       5.1       4.9     -12.2        4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999       Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             30
Aariculture                                    28.7      31.3      39.0                20 -
Industrv                                       37.8     43.2       33.3                 in
Manufacturing                                 8.8       5.3        5.4                '_
Services                                       33.5     25.5       27.6       -9        0
Private consumDtion                            58.3     64.3       63.0       66.7    .20
General government consumption                 13.9      10.4      13.5       14.9              -       0t       CGDP
Imports of qoods and services                  19.1     25.2       38.1       42.3
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports I%)
/average annual growfh)
Aariculture                                     2.2       2.9        1.5               25
Industry                                       -2.7       2.0       2.9
Manufacturing                                 1.1       2.3        2.8
Services                                        2.3       3.5       0.1
Private consumption                            -1.6     -0. 1       -3.1                s            n
General aovernment consumption                 -4.6       1.6      24.6               -o0
Gross domestic investment                     -10.2       5.8      -7.4       17 6     15
Imnorts of goods and services                 -13.2      4.4       -2.8       18.6            -     Exporls         t imports
Gross national Droduct                          0.3       3.4       0.9        3.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-arouD averaae. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 74 -



Nigeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%/)
Domestic prices                                                                   s
(% change)
Consumer prices                             11.7    50.S       10.3       6.6    60,
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.5    44.4       -5.2      12.9    40
Government finance                                                                20
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                               0      9
Current revenue                             20.7    13.8       28.5      30.5    -20     94   96   06   67   96    9
Current budget balance                      12.0    -1.4       13.2      11.1            -GDP defator  -O'-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -2.5    -7.2     -13.4      -7.4
TRADE
(UIS$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       16,767    9,812    10,114    11,927    20,000
Crude petroleum                          15,655    9,411     9,218   11,393
Liquified natural gas                        ..      ..         ..      322    156000
Manufactures                                 ..      39       140        27
Total imports (cif)                       15,971    6,544    10,269   12,176      10000*L                   h
Food                                      1,638     425      1,397    1,583
Fuel and energy                            442       46       123       158
Capital goods                                ..      ..         ..       ..        0
93  94  9s  06  97  96  99
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                   117      107        71       94
Import price index (1995=100)                 59       80        94       93    |             Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    198      133        76      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989        1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             17,631    9,979    10,972   12,871      15
Imports of goods and services             13,543    7,679    12,934    14,901     10
Resource balance                           4,089    2,301     -1,962    -2030      s                 U
Net income                                -2,026   -2,668    -2,669   -3,445
Net current transfers                       -388      118      1,516    1,662      0
Current account balance                    1,675    -249    -3,115    -3,813      -   *                         *7
Financing items (net)                      1,765    1,521     3,000    2,147    -10
Changes in net reserves                   -3,440   -1,272       115    1,666    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     5,580    1,797     7,107    5,441
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             0.9      9.4      88.0      95.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debtoutstanding and disbursed        6,245   30,122    28,343   31,617
IBRD                                       478    2,906     2,278     1,989                        A: 1,989
IDA                                         38      30        564      624             G: 6,516          B:624
Total debt service                           392    2,117     4,235    4,082                  _        2        2,244
IBRD                                        65     411        466      443
IDA                                          1        1         4        7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              2      128         0        0
Official creditors                          59     461    -1,763    -1,994        F:5,829 
Private creditors                        1,234     522       -41         0
Foreign direct investment                    ..   2,443     1,351     1,494                                  14,415
Portfolio equity                             0        0         O        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                182     702          0        0      A - IBRO                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               51     450        222      114      B- IDA    0- Other muftilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        21     200        314      307      C - IMF                    G - Short-tern
Netflows                                    31     250        -9.1    -194
Interest payments                           45     212        156i     142
Net transfers                              -15      38       -249      -336
Development Economics
- 75 -



Additional
Annex 11
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Overview of the Power Sector and Planned Reforms
Energy Resources
Nigeria possesses over 20 billion barrels of known crude oil reserves, 120 trillion cubic feet of natural gas,
a hydropower potential of 36,000 GWh per year, as well as significant coal and forest resources. Nigeria
produces about 2.2 million barrels of crude oil per day (OPEC quota) mostly for export, that account for
over 90% of Nigeria's export earnings. One trillion cubic feet of associated natural gas is flared annually.
Flaring is to be eliminated by 2008.
The Power Sector
NEPA's available capacity is about 2,600 MW after a year of intense rehabilitation effort. This compares
to an installed capacity of over 5,000 MW. The transmission and distribution networks are characterized
by excessive outages (seven out of nine total system collapses in 1999 were directly caused by transmission
faults) and high energy losses of between 30-35% from generation to billing (NEPA estimates the technical
losses in its power networks at about 15% and the non-technical losses at 17% of billed energy in 1999).
In the distribution networks, equipment (particularly transformer) breakdowns and line failures (sometimes
caused by vandalism and pilferage) have affected the operation of many sections of the network.
The transmission system capacity is sufficient to serve most major load centers at the current loads
restricted by generation availability. However, there are a number of bottlenecks caused by overloaded
substation transformers and vandalization of lines. Furthermore system upgrades are needed to meet
expected loads at reasonable reliability levels when generation constraints are removed. Dispatch and
operational control of the system is grossly inadequate. The National Control Center (NCC) is barely
functional relying on a single digital frequency meter. The Supplementary NCC (SNCC) designed as the
backup system, is only partially operational, its use limited to system monitoring. There is no reliable
communication path for exchanging information between the SNCC and the NCC. Most of the
SCADAJEMS system functionality have not been tested and commissioned. Most of the RTUs connected
to the SCADA systems remain in the disturbed state so that no data is available at the SNCC.
Only about 36% of the populace has access to electricity. Some state capitals and large towns are not
connected to the national grid.
NEPA's financial performance is also very poor as described in Section E2.
FGN-funded rehabilitation is the major focus of the effort to reach the 4000 MW target by end 2001. This
is complemented by a number of schemes involving the private sector: (a) Emergency Power Project (EPP),
a parallel plan for short-term contracts with private power producers to provide up to 450 MW additional
power under Build-Own-Operate (BOO) contracts; (b) Rehabilitate Operate Transfer (ROT) program
under which private financing will be solicited for rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the selected
plants for a fixed period; and (c) Enron/AES units: a power purchase agreement between Enron, Lagos
State Government and NEPA was signed to provide 270 MW of power to Lagos. Both EPP and ROT are
considered interim steps in recognition of the time required to achieve total privatization of generation.
- 76 -



The following table shows the history, current status and expected short-term status of the generation
stations, as of December 2000.
Station   Type         Date of        Installed    Actual      Expected    Expected
commissioning   MW          Available    Available    Available
Capacity    Capacity    Capacity
QMW)                    (MW)
November   December   December
2000        2000        2001
Afam     GT (gas)      1978-1982       710         0            30          456
Delta    GT (gas)      1966-1990       832         220          320         520
Sapele    GT, ST (gas)  1978-1981      1020        240          240         240
Egbin    ST (gas)      1985-1987       1320        880          880         1100
Ijora    GT (gas)      1978            60          0            0           0
Oji      ST (dual)     1956            30          0            0           0
Kainji    Hydro        1968-1978       760         0            200         680
Jebba    Hydro         1983-1984       570         570          570         570
Shiroro   Hydro        1989-1990       600         300          450         600
TOTAL                                  5902        2210         2690        4166
Electricity Supply and Demand
Nigeria's power market falls into two categories: NEPA customers, and market supplied from
privately-owned power generation facilities. NEPA's sales (total billings) amounted to 10,339 GWh in
1999, of which 53% consisted of sales to residential customers, 28% to commercial, and 19% to industrial.
This unusual consumption profile is due to the significant industrial auto-generation of electricity and
stimulation of residential demand for electricity under heavily subsidized tariffs.
A substantial number of small independent power supply systems have been developed either because of
the poor quality of grid supply or because of NEPA's failure to extend service to large parts of the country.
It was estimated that more than 90% of industrial establishments and huge number of commercial and
residential establishments have installed and run their owIn power generators. An ESMAP study indicated
that from 1975 to 1992, total installed auto-generation amounted to 117 MVA by residential consumers
and 1270 MVA by industrial/commercial consumers. A l987 World Bank study of 179 industries showed
that on average industries supplied about 25% of their powier needs from their own generations at an
average cost of USc 60/kWh. The situation has not improved since then, and it is estimated that
auto-generation and lost production, caused by shortfalls in NEPA's supply, has resulted in higher energy
costs for Nigerian manufactures of up to 30%. This cost burden places them at a comparative
disadvantage, particularly in export markets.
- 77 -



Electricity consumption and peak load in 1980 were 5,724 GWh and 1,181 MW, representing a load factor
of 55.3%. During 1980-1999, the average annual growth rate of electricity consumption was 5.7% while
the annual growth rate of peak demand was only 3.9%. The load factor in 1999 was as high as 75.7%,
clearly indicating a very seriously suppressed demand. NEPA estimated that without supply constraints,
the system's peak demand would be about 3,350 MW which is nearly 40% higher than the observed system
peak load in 1999. According to NEPA's load forecasts, system demand would increase by 3.8% each
year from 2000 to 2005 and 4.7% from 2006 to 2010. The peak load and energy demand in 2005 would
reach 4100 MW and 21,565 GWh (at generation level) respectively, and in 2010, 5170 MW and 27,158
GWh respectively. This forecast is considered reasonable.
Government Policy and Strategy
The FGN has embarked on a major restructuring program aimed at the establishment of new institutions
functioning in a suitably regulated commercial environment. The new Power Sector Policy Paper was
approved by the Federal Executive Council in March 2001.
Short-Term. Major elements of the Government strategy to significantly improve power supply in the
short-term include: (i) rehabilitation of the existing generating plants to reach the 4000 MW target at the
end of 2001; (ii) rehabilitation and enhancement of the communication systems and making the SNCC
functional; (iii) rehabilitation of over 30 transmission substations; (iv) augmentation of the transformer
capacity of 38 substations which serve as the distribution injection points; and (v) launching an
anti-vandalism program.
With the proposed rehabilitation of generation plants and restructuring and reform of the power sector, the
suppressed demand over many years could cause a heavy surge in the system demand. It is thus necessary
that the transmission system is adequately prepared to meet future demands. A number of proposals have
been prepared by NEPA to meet medium- and long-term system requirements. The proposals include
projects may be classified as developments to: (i) improve system integrity and reliability; (ii) improve
operational performance, relieve overloading and inefficiencies in the distribution systems; and (iii) expand
the networks to presently unserved areas where demand is increasing. A medium-term transmission system
planning is to be carried out to determine the least cost system development plan and hence the investment
requirements in generation, transmission and distribution.
Medium-Term. In the medium-term (three to five years), the power sector will consist of:
*   The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), independent from the Government, with an
independent source of funding. NERC will have decision-making powers on key aspects of technical
and economic regulation, for example: tariff regulation, approval of capacity expansion plans,
oversight of quality of service, service obligation, and competition. NERC will issue licenses to
companies operating in the sector, and will regulate wholesale and retail electricity tariffs and prices.
*   Competing, privately-owned and operated generation companies (including privatized NEPA facilities
and new generation capacity under IPP arrangements). All thenrl generating companies will be
privately owned and/or operated. Large hydro stations might remain partially or wholly state owned,
but with concessions to private operators.
- 78 -



* A single Transmission and System Operation Company (TransysCo) with responsibility for: (i)
transmission of electricity on an open-access basis with regulated transmission tariffs; (ii) system
operation and dispatch; and (iii) management of the power trade settlement system. The TransysCo
will neither buy nor sell electricity nor have any ownership in generation, distribution or sales
companies. The TransysCo will not be purely privately owned and the Government may remain the
majority shareholder, possibly with private management and operation.
* A number of distribution companies, if possible all privately owned, with special arrangements for any
companies that are expected to be chronically loss making in the long-term. Distribution companies
connected to the grid will be prohibited from owning generation plants other than small scale embedded
generators. Off-grid distribution companies will be permitted to have their own generation.
A Special Purpose Entity (SPE) will be created as an interim arrangement. This SPE would take over
some of NEPA's liabilities after unbundling. This will help ensure that unwarranted liabilities are not
passed on to the TransysCo. For example, the SPE could assume NEPA's obligations to purchase power
under PPA's and on-sell this power to the distribution companies. The SPE would negotiate the
reassignment of purchasing obligations under PPA's to the privatized distribution companies, and hold any
PPA's that the distribution companies will not take over until their terms end. The SPE will be supported
from FGN's budget for managing the non-payment risk, as well as for covering any shortfall in revenues
from the distribution companies during the transition period for raising tariffs, relative to payments for
purchasing power under the PPAs. The trade-off between the required level of budget support and any
deficiency in tariffs would be clearly apparent under this arrangement, and pressure to reduce the budget
support should result in pressure to raise tariffs up to full cost-recovery levels. Management of the SPE
should be contracted out to a private sector financial institution or energy trader.
Power will be traded initially on the basis of bilateral agreements between generation companies and/or the
SPE and distribution companies with each supplier having a portfolio of buyers and each distribution
company holding a portfolio of supply contracts. In the long-term, i.e. at the time when there is no longer a
power deficit and on average electricity prices cover supply costs, modifications will be made to introduce
more competition. Full wholesale trading, i.e. a power pool, will be established with formal rules.
The following table summarizes the target strategic timeline for the short- and medium-term that was
agreed by the FMPS, BPE, NEPA and the World Bank in April 2001 1/.
1/ Second Power Sector Reform Leaders' Workshop, April 3 and 4, 2001 in Washington D.C.
- 79 -



STRATEGIC TIMELINE
Legal and Regulatory Advisors start                            November 2000
Power Policy Statement Approved                                March 2001
Sustainable Financial Plan Approved by FGN                     April 2001
Establish Project Advisory and Monitoring team                 June 2001
Restructuring and Corporatisation Advisors start               June 2001
1st stage NEPA unbundling (cost centers)                       June 2001
Electricity Law submitted to National Assembly                 October 2001
Interim Tariff Increase Implemented                            October 2001
Start contracting out NEPA billing and collection              October 2001
3000 MW operational                                            October 2001
Electricity Law passed and enacted                             December 2001
Two NEPA power stations under ROT concessions                  December 2001
4000 MW operational                                            December 2001
National Electricity Regulatory Agency Established             March 2002
Privatization Strategy approved                                March 2002
Special Purpose Entity established                             April 2002
Prepare Rural Electrification Strategy                         July 2002
2nd Tariff increase                                            July 2002
Distribution and Generation Licenses approved                  September 2002
Unbundling of NEPA completed                                   December 2002
Two more NEPA power stations under ROT                         December 2002
- 80 -



Sale of first group of distribution JSCs completed               December 2002
New Power Trading Arrangements go live                           March 2003
First stage upgrade of TransysCo communications complete         end 2003
Sale of 2nd group of distribution JSCs completed                 end 2004
- 81 -



Additional
Annex 12
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Financial Management Action Plan
A. GENERAL
Under the supervision of the Project Manager, the Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be acceptable to the
NEPA, the FMPS and the World Bank.
The principal objective of the PMU's Financial Management System (FMS) will be to support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and
effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the
people of Nigeria. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant
and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise
the Project's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For the PMU to fully deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS will be developed in
accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Section B below.
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Financial Management Committee (FMC)
A FMC (comprising the Project Manager, the Project Accountant, the Procurement Specialist and
representatives of the NEPA, the FMPS and the FvF) will be appointed to review the Project
Management Report (PMR) every quarter. The PMR will comprise:
Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the FMC will review and approve Quarterly and
Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between budget/actual figures,
seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed time frame.
Project Progress, i.e. Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR will need
to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative interpreting the
Project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to date relate to those
planned at appraisal, and the likely effect on the Project by completion.
- 82 -



Procurement Management Report (including Goods, Works and Services)
Staffing
A Project Accountant has been appointed to direct and guide the financial operations. Relevantly
qualified and experienced support staff will be available. Varying levels of staff training will be required in
financial and management accounting; information systems and computer applications; and procedures
relating to the utilization of funds (e.g. Special Accounts, SOEs, PMR-based Disbursements, Special
Commitments, Procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be provided.
Accounting System/Financial Procedures Manual
A Financial Management Consultant will be retained to advise on the selection and installation of the
Project's computerized FMS (using a spreadsheet and/or an integrated accounts package), to prepare the
Project's Financial Procedures Manual (including records management) and to train staff in the operation of
the system. Provision has been made in the budget for hardware and software requirements.
Project activities will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Sub-sector of NEPA.
Cash Versus Accruals Bases of Accounting
For the foreseeable future, all Project funds will be accounted for on a cash basis. In due course, for
management reporting purposes, the FMC will decide whether to convert to an accruals basis of
accounting.
Planning and Budgeting
Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with the NEPA's budgetary process. The Project
Accountant, in consultation with the Project Manager, the Procurement Specialist and the FMC, will be
responsible for preparing the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast in line with generally
accepted accounting practice.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
World Bank and NEPA/Govemment procurement regulations will be observed. The Project
Accountant and support staff will be conversant with those procedures, as internal control issues and the
incurring of liabilities on behalf of the Project will be matters of concern to the financial management
function. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments,
will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMC (see above).
Procurement procedures will be documented in the Project Implementation Plan.
Banking Activities-Flow Of Funds
The PMU will maintain four accounts as follows:
(a) Special Account with Bank X in US Dollars/Naira, which will show:
- 83 -



Dollar/Naira cost of transfers to Part 1 Account with Bank X.
Dollar/Naira cost of payments to suppliers.
Dollar advances (Naira equivalent cost) from the IDA Ledger Loan Account.
Opening and Closing Balances.
(b) Current Account in Naira with Bank X (Part I Account) to which draw-downs from the Special
Account will be credited once per month (towards the end of the month) in respect of incurred eligible
expenses. Following the immediate payment of those liabilities, the balance on this account should be zero
at the end of each month.
(c) Current Project Account in Naira with Bank X (Part 2 Account) to which Counterpart Funding will
be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be provided and, thereafter, it will be replenished monthly.
(d) IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington) in US Dollars/Naira/SDR, which will show:
Cost of transfers to Bank X.
Cost of direct payments to suppliers.
Opening and Closing Balances.
Bank accounts will be reconciled monthly; identified differences will be expeditiously investigated.
Control procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Withdrawals/Disbursements
By credit effectiveness, the PMU will not be ready for PMR-based disbursements (World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998). Thus, in the short-term, existing
disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook will be followed, i.e.
Direct Payment (e.g. consultants' fees in respect of the change management component), Reimbursement
and Special Commitments. However, the appointment of the Project Accountant, coupled with the
establishment and development of the PMU's financial management system, should facilitate the
introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness.
In due course, the adoption of PMR-based disbursements (which integrates project accounting,
procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit with physical progress through the Project
Management Report, as summarized above) should enable the PMU to move away from
voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Special Account based on the
PMR.
Fixed Assets/Civil Works/Consultants
Control procedures will be docunented in the Financial Procedures Manual. A Fixed Assets Register
will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. Regarding Construction/Capital Work in Progress,
controls will be established to ensure that payments are made only for certified work (including physical
verification). A Contracts Register will be maintained for all contracts. A Procurement Management
Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be prepared quarterly for
consideration by the FMC.
- 84 -



Financial Reporting (Monthly and Quarterly/Annually)
Monthly Status of Funds Report
The Project Accountant will be responsible for preparing a Monthly Status of Funds Report for review by
the Project Manager.
Quarterly/Annually
The Project Financial Statements will include:
A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses oi Funds for IDA and Counterpart Funds.
Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date.
Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management when
preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a. "true and fair view".
A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts (including the IDA Special
Account) to the bank balances on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds.
SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements
by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount.
A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank publications -
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995), The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998), and the Draft Project Financial
Management Manual (February 1999). In due course, the formats adopted by the FMC will be
documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
ExternalAudit
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved terms of
reference for the project. Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months
after the financial year end. Besides expressing a primary opinion on the financial statements in
compliance with International Auditing Standards (IFAC,11.TTOSAI pronouncements), the auditor will be
required to include a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures
withdrawn under SOE procedures and the extent to whic h these can be relied upon as a basis for loan
disbursements. Regarding the Special Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to
the degree of compliance with World Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end. Additionally, the
auditor will be required to prepare a separate Management Letter giving observations and comments, and
providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls and compliance
with financial covenants.
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 13
NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Organizational Chart of the NEPA Project Management Unit (PMU)
MANAGING
DIRECTOR
(EPA)
.1-............ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... . ....... . ... ......
I   MANAGER
COORDINATOR  l      SECRETARY
LEGAL
ASSISTANT    I   ASSISTANT           PROWECT          ASSISTANT
MANAGER           MANAGER          ACCOUNTANT         MANAGER
POLICY            ADMN.      NVTMENT
COORIDNATOR                COORDINATOR  | COORDINATOR           PROCTRM           COORWATOR
ERSU                   TRANSMISSION      TRANSMISSION         OFFICER       SCADA/EMS & COMM.
PROJECTS          PLANNING
- 86 -



NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Implementation Schedule for Supply and Installation (Summary)
2001    1    2002        2003         2004         2005
Task Name                         Start          Finish    an a       o      Janl  a      o  a  IJna   I e I o Par4 a Ia IJul I e 1 o hla    I a  iaJu I e I o Jan
Substation Reinforcement      Thu 5/10/01     Fri 5/28/04        _       rtAwaf
Shunt Reactors                 Fri 5/4/01     Fri 5/28/04             Contrct Award
Grid Metering (132 KV)         Fri 5/4/01    Thu 10/9/03                   Award'
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Grid -Protection              Thu 5/24/01 Wed 10/29/03                 ContA Aw
MIS for New TransysCo         Thu 5/23/02    Fri 12/30/05                                        Contract Award
Phase 1: Upgrading of         Mon 4/23/01    Mon 3/29/04    rCotrAwat  -
SCADA/EMS &
Communications System
Phase ll: Upgrading of         Wed3/6/02    Tue 5/31/05         ,                   Contract Award
SCADA/EMS &
Communications System                      I



NIGERIA: Transmission Development Project
Implementation Schedule for Consultancy (Summary)
2001      20        2003       2004           2006 20
Task Name                                Start             Finish     Qtr 31 Qtr 1 | Qtr 31 Qtr 1| Qtr 31 Qtr 1| Qtr 31 Qtr II Qtr 31 Qtr 1| Qtr 31 Qtr 1| Qtr 3
TA - Change Management                Mon 3/19/01      Mon 3/15/04             c-ontract Award
TA - Trans        Prssion ?rcing Study  Mon 4/16/01     Fri 4/16/04          _   ontract Award
Power Market Development and         Mon I 1/1 9/01    Mon 9119/05                    Contract Award
Operation                                                                            _    NY
TA- Drafting and Implementing        Mon 10/15/01      Mon 9/19/05                  Contract Award
Oc     TransysCo's Business Plan                                                       -          N                               NY
Transmission Design & Engineering     Thu 4/19/01       TI'ue 5/4/04           IContract Award
Services                                                                     N        NY                    N
SCADAIEMS Communications              Thu 5/3/01       TIhu 4/22/04             Contract Award
Engineering                                                                     .    N
Environment Audit and Capacity        Thu 5/3/01       Wed 4/28/04              Contract Award
Building for ERSlJ                                                           N        N                     NY
Various Training Packages             Wed 3/21/01       Fri 4/28/06



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31357
14              '          4                               6A                              8                               10                               12'                       \      14          14MA
A'.- Nr~ ~                      N   ~AATA A   N  I G  E  R                                                                   Ad,, /CHAD
A,                                           *~~~~~~AA~~~~AA7~~~~~                                                                TRANSMISSION DEVELOPMENT
hA,NIAEY   7- - .. rInke\'A GZU                                                                                                  , , , ,             nFcsd3dcrnFlo     <      <      ! ;N      
Sokotog
A  /                                           'x.....        Kolsiro       - ~T6-yobe R-
4 , /  ox                                            Mh A *_-t TAoTATnD h / . ._                                                                                      ,YobtR-                                       _       NEb MARTS  r \CF'Od\  PROJ ECT
K           -                                                                                      W us  -  AFYAl            YORE
KERR                                                                                    -I FEADA  RA                                          0~  NO                              PROJECT YEXS        ONATIONGLONT PROPOSES
r' / (3 ,ggFiGnlx>> j>M;E \ >N&ADAMAWA J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Km'                                                                                                                                         TIN
2               ~~~        ~    ~      ~~KA  7 $AT
r           _ -SI R )  7    e    4   e  -               ' \                                       W O AIER   -                       D o m oturu                   M AdDg -                                                            S U B ST A T IO N   R EIN PO R C EM E N T
I                                                                                                                            -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~700 kV SUPER ORJD LINES
'I )_                                           ,       -itA9TENRAoC96oTO    -g .    ,    AOC           _    ;;        T   R    6      |            S8                                                                   -      TERATI330 kV IUNES
A|44KA i132 kV UNRIN
ASK ;A                                                                     0  t   ffi8; JE S s ' iNHYDROELECTRIC POWER STATIONS
G   VSE              l      TR                                                                               THERMAL POWER STATIONS
B  E  N l N         ain1-/                                                                                                                                                                                               H13                13   BULK SUPPLY
B          I   N    5)    R , r o r 0/                                  M O     SA A T                                                                                                                        e                                          N A T IO N A L  C O N T R O L   C E N T E R S
lE       ;                '' '-"             I  "  "m '''      ' A  )  -  I   NAS
- '  AA  idRNaTM 4T-A  ST>U<~                                                                                                           (                                      0NSTATE CAPITALS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
L.fia                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
TAKPI' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                STATE BOUNDARIES
(   SAOA COTO8O, AhAkA                           A                                                                                                                                                   '-     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I)   \                   ol      *  do~~~~~~~~~~~~-Ekiti    AS "E    W1l
r   ad                                              ; AS  N X LAR
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~        C     A     C     C C k                                    &TR      -'El~'N                                   SA
'If                                                                                                                                                            N I G E R~~~~~~~.-X V LN JRI   KNK   
s.    .' ,              *   sin~~~~~~ Ci          E             pAkO AAA  AAAI                                                          CA M ERO O N
~~~/dSb  TA<  IA                                                                                 200    250                          iT   )'BENIN)           NIGERIA           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BNI)  0
Wa-fl  AAA~~~1tAARRR   IC)  ~UmFaW.RI                                                                              KILOMETERS                                         -    '1>W/bIA.L~ 
A  A TAX  OAr.                          C                                                                                                                      OHAN4J I                          ,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HAI
12,sit   ~~~~  ~ ~ . ~~x  /           - N  ~~~   BAR                                                       XXI, TTAp AARpTAUASRUXyATOMAp D.RTA LA,,,IATT4O WoIdThSa-k                  ''\ . M. D-pU~il  Th~W~A' /-kCENTRALRA
Z~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                     Ihn -~~TkAA"lf    A'  ASASp dA FAASpI,-y 6,AA  RASAThXAWASIUEAALTAAp, -yA                            CAMEROO        AREPBICA
10'                     ~~~~~~~~~~12'                      14A                                                                -'--15GABON ~)CONGO



