Report No. PID9541
Project Name                     Nigeria-Transmission Development Project (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Distribution & Transmission
Project ID                       NGPE72018
Borrower                         GOVERNMENT  OF  NIGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address
NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY (NEPA)
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF POWER AND STEEL (FMPS)
National Electric Power Authority (NEPA)
Address: Plot 441, Zambezi Crescent, Maitama, Abuja,
Nigeria
Fax: (234-9) 234-7728
Contact Person: Engr. J. 0. Makoju, Managing
Director, NEPA
Email:  mdnepa@alpha.linserve.com
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date Draft PID Prepared          August 25, 2000
Date of this PID                 June 12, 2001
Appraisal Date                   March 3, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 26, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Nigeria, situated in West Africa with a population of 124 million, has the
potential to become an economic giant by virtue of its size, human talent,
rich resource endowment and economic capacity. The new democracy, after 30
years of military rule, has opened a window for economic and social reform
and development.
Energy Resources
Nigeria possesses over 20 billion barrels of known crude oil reserves, 120
trillion cubic feet of natural gas, a hydropower potential of 36,000 GWh per
year, as well as significant coal and forest resources. Nigeria produces
about 2.2 million barrels of crude oil per day (OPEC quota) mostly for
export, that account for over 90t of Nigeria's export earnings. One trillion
cubic feet of associated natural gas is flared annually. Flaring is to be
eliminated by 2008.
Sector Background
The National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) was created in 1972 as the
vertically-integrated utility responsible for the power sector in Nigeria.



NEPA developed new electricity generating capacity during the 1970s and 1980s
in both hydro and thermal power. Presently the installed power generation
capacity totals over 5,000 MW. However, about half of this capacity is non-
operational. Until this past year, none of the generation units had ever had
a major overhaul. Throughout the 1990s NEPA had been unable to meet a
simultaneous peak demand on its system of more than 2,500 MW.
The power system suffers from low generating plant availability and high
outages on the transmission and distribution networks. Seven out of nine
total system collapses in 1999 were directly caused by transmission faults.
The National Control Center (NCC) is barely functional. Persistent and
frequent blackouts on NEPA's system have been the norm for many years.
Consequently huge numbers of industrial, commercial and residential
establishments run their own power generators which produce electricity at
high cost to themselves and to the Nigerian economy.
The power sector is also characterized by high energy losses (about 30-35%
from generation to billings), a low collection rate (in the range of 75-80%),
and low access to electricity by the populace (about 36%). Inadequate tariffs
and gross inefficiencies in operations over the years have led to inadequate
internal cash generation. The utility is heavily dependent on fuel subsidies
and funding of capital projects by the Government. In 2000, the Government
financial support to NEPA amounted to about US$400 million, or 13% of the
total FGN capital budget. NEPA's unmet debt service obligations through 2000
amount to about N40.5 billion (about US$396 million equivalent).
In March 2000 the President of the Federation removed the top layers of
NEPA's management and appointed a nine-member Technical Board reporting
directly to him. The Board has two mandates: (i) bring about a significant
improvement in power supply in the short-term (specifically, by end-2001 at
least 4000 MW of generation capacity must be in operation); and (ii) prepare
NEPA for privatization. The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) is the agency
responsible for carrying out the privatization of the power sector.
Government Strategy to Address Main Sector Issues
(i)  Sector restructuring, reform and privatization.      The new power policy
was approved by the Federal Executive Council in March 2001, which defines
the framework for sector restructuring, privatization and independent
regulation. NEPA will be unbundled into generation, transmission and
distribution. Transmission will initially remain under state ownership; the
rest of the power sector will be privatized. A draft of the new electricity
law has been circulated for comment. The law is expected to be submitted to
the National Assembly in September 2001.
(ii)  Short-term improvement in electricity supply.      Uninterrupted power
supply is perceived by the Nigerian public as a major tangible result
expected as part of the "democracy dividend". The main elements of the
Government strategy to significantly improve power supply in the short-term
include the following: (i) Generation. FGN-funded rehabilitation is the
major focus of the effort to reach the 4000 MW target by the end of 2001.
This is complemented by plans to involve the private sector; (ii) System
Control. Interim measures are aimed at providing NEPA with a minimum reliable
data collection and control system to operate the power network, including
-2 -



rehabilitation and enhancement of the communication systems and making the
Supplementary National Control Center (SNCC) functional; (iii) Transmission.
FGN funding has been allocated for rehabilitation of over 30 transmission
substations. Many of the required transformers have already been purchased
and tenders are out for switch gear and other related equipment; (iv) Anti-
vandalism. A program has been initiated and repair of vandalized lines is
ongoing; (v) Distribution. A number of 132/33 kV transformers have been
secured to improve the capacity of 38 substations which serve as the
distribution injection points; (vi) Revenue Generation. A customer population
census and registration is underway. A program for private sector
participation in billing and collection will be started in 2001.
(iii)  Financial viability of the sector.      The weighted average tariff is
about 3.2 USc/kWh, i.e. about half of the cost of supply, and well below the
long run marginal cost (about USc 6.5/kWh). The tariff structure is skewed so
that industry provides a substantial subsidy to residential customers. NEPA
collects payment for only about 50t of energy sent out.    A sector sustainable
financial plan was approved by FGN in April 2001. The plan includes a
schedule for tariff increase linked to improvement in power supply, the
introduction of private participation in billing and collection to improve
revenue collection, reduction of staff and operation costs, and a short-term
FGN subsidy.
(iv) Electricity access. At present, Government seeks to expand electricity
access by electrifying all local government headquarters. To date, 565 of
the 744 local government headquarters are connected. This approach alone
might not be sufficient to maximize the economic benefit of the investments.
Under the proposed World Bank Privatization Support Project, a comprehensive
Rural Energy Policy and Strategy will be developed.
2. Project Development Objective
To support the Federal Government of Nigeria's (FGN) overall program of power
sector reform and privatization by addressing the requirements of the
transmission and dispatch sub-sectors, specifically through: (i) facilitating
NEPA unbundling, (ii) establishing a transparently-regulated, financially-
viable, commercially-operated Transmission and System Operation Company
(TransysCo) with private participation; (iii) removing transmission network
and system operation constraints on provision of reliable power supply; and
(iv) facilitating development of an efficient wholesale power market to
improve the power sector's long-term performance.
3. Rationale for World Bank Involvement
Longer-Term Development Focus.      NEPA's Technical Board, management and
staff are under enormous pressure to deliver the short-term improvements in
power supply promised by the President. A major benefit of Bank support is to
draw attention to the medium- and long-term issues and to help ensure that
short-term actions are consistent with longer-term objectives. For example,
through the PPF, the Bank is supporting essential studies and training for
the SCADA (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition) system and for medium-
term transmission planning. Planning in these areas was minimal prior to
-3 -



Bank involvement. Decisions about the SCADA system and investments in
transmission in the short-term will have significant long-term cost and
efficiency implications.
Incorporation of International Experience in Establishing the TransysCo.
The November 2000 international workshop (Organization and Functions of the
New Transmission Company), the upcoming study tour in June 2001 and the
significant resources set aside for training (about US$5 million) will ensure
that Nigerians have the opportunity to benefit from international experience
in order to select and implement the most suitable structure for the new
TransysCo.
Efficient Pricing.      NEPA management has been mainly concerned with tariff
levels. The question of efficient pricing has been neglected so far. Bank
assistance in developing an interim retail tariff adjustment plan through
PPF-funded international consultants has provided an opportunity for
Nigerians to consider impacts and methods of reducing pricing distortion
through tariff re-balancing. A transmission pricing study is planned under
the project and its outcome will be submitted to the independent regulatory
commission as a basis for transmission regulation.
Increased Social Focus.      Through the change management component of the
project, the Bank will assist in the development of an incentive-based scheme
and training opportunities to help retrenched workers find new employment,
for example with private firms that will provide services to the new
TransysCo and distribution companies after unbundling. This is a critical
aspect of the restructuring.
Increased Environmental Focus.      Bank assistance in setting up the
Environment, Resettlement and Social Unit (ERSU) and in the implementation of
the social and environment component will strengthen the institutional
capacity and raise awareness of the importance of these issues.
4. Description
(1) Investment Components - Reinforcement of Transmission and System
Dispatching:
(i)     Reinforcement of five main grid substations through augmentation of
transformers, provision of shunt reactors, and associated 330 and 132 kV
bays.
(ii)    Replacement of grid distance protection relays at approximately five
generation stations and seven 330kV substations.
(iii)   Installation of grid system metering at the 132 kV level in order to
measure the power supplied to distribution companies.
(iv)    Construction of the National Control Center (NCC) equipped with:
(a) a supervisory control and data acquisition system; (b) an energy
management system; (c) automatic generation control system; (d) a user
interface system; and (e) information systems for administration of the power
market.
-4-



(v)     Supply and installation of a Management Information System (MIS) for
the new TransysCo.
(2) Technical Assistance Components in Establishing the TransysCo:
(i)     Change Management. This includes (a) Activities associated with the
establishment of the new TransysCo (legal, economic, financial and management
structure, etc.); and (b) Development of a retrenchment program which may
include training and incentives to facilitate the hiring of NEPA retrenched
workers in the private sector.
(ii)    Preparation and implementation of Business Plan for the TransysCo.
This includes production and implementation of the initial business plan, and the
establishment of appropriate accounting, budgeting and financial management
systems.
(iii)   Transmission Pricing. This involves a study to assist the TransysCo
in developing a proposal for transmission pricing methodology and structure,
and an implementation plan which will be submitted to the regulatory agency
as a basis for transmission pricing regulation.
(iv)    Engineering Services. This item provides consultancy support for the
preparation of transmission development proposals (transmission lines, sub-
stations, reaction power compensation, SCADA/EMS and communication systems)
including the investment components under the project.
(v)     Institutional Capacity Building.   This includes a training program to
enhance the TransysCo's managerial, legal, technical and financial
capabilities. Training areas will cover sector regulation,
business/financial management, social/environmental issues, public outreach
and technical training on transmission maintenance and system operation.
(vi)    Power Market Development and Operation.   This will be implemented in two
phases. The first phase will provide assistance in preparatory work for
establishment of a wholesale power market including design, procurement and
installation of suitable hardware and software for a power trade settlement
system. The second phase will involve assistance in operation of the power
market and its further development.
(3) Social and Environment Component:
Establishment of an Environment, Resettlement and Social Unit (ERSU)
responsible for ensuring preparation of environmental impact assessments,
resettlement action plans, environment monitoring plans for new projects and
for monitoring and evaluation of on-going projects. The ERSU will coordinate
activities with the National Action Committee on AIDS (NACA).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
NEPA                             13
IDA                              100
Total Project Cost               113
-5-



6. Implementation Period: 2001 - 2006
Implementing Agencies
NEPA and the Federal Ministry of Power and Steel (FMPS) will be the joint
implementing agencies, with NEPA being the primary one. FMPS will be
responsible for the Change Management component. NEPA will be responsible
for implementation of the investment components and all other institutional
components. After the restructuring of NEPA, the newly formed TransysCo will
take over NEPA's responsibilities for the project.
Implementation Arrangements
Project Management.      NEPA (and later the TransysCo) will be responsible
for preparation and implementation of all aspects of the project except the
change management component. A Project Management Unit (PMU) was set up
within NEPA after the Bank project identification mission in July 2000. To
ensure close coordination with FMPS at the working level, a representative
from FMPS has been assigned to the PMU as a liaison officer.
During project preparation, the PMU was responsible for procurement,
administration of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and other funds,
contracting and supervision of consultants, coordination with various
departments of NEPA and with all stakeholders in the sector. At the project
implementation stage, the PMU will be responsible for procurement management
for both goods and services, supervision of construction scheduling, quality
and cost control, coordination of reform technical assistance activities,
coordination of training activities, financial management and project
reporting. All major investment contracts will be of supply and installation
type following Bank international competitive bidding procedure and the
bidding documents will be reviewed and finalized by international
consultants.
After NEPA is restructured, the PMU will be transferred to the newly created
TransysCo in its entirety. The PMU will play a critical role in maintaining
continuity throughout implementation.
Project Oversight and Coordination.      A steering committee consisting of
representatives from FMPS and NEPA will be established to provide project
oversight and coordination. The steering committee will make quarterly
reports to the Electric Power Sector Reform Implementation Committee (EPIC)
on issues concerning reform and restructuring. EPIC is a coordinating body
under the National Council on Privatization (NCP), and is headed by the
Minister of FMPS and consists of members from the Power Department of FMPS,
NEPA Technical Board, NEPA management, BPE and the Multilateral Institutions
Department of Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF). When the sector is
restructured, the composition of the steering committee will be modified to
include the TransysCo Board and Management, and the newly established
regulatory commission.
Social and Environmental.      An Environment, Resettlement and Social Unit
(ERSU) will be set up (section 4.3).
On-lending, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements.       An IDA credit
of US$100 million equivalent will be made to the Government of Nigeria on
- 6 -



standard terms. The Government will onlend US$98.7 million equivalent of the
IDA credit to NEPA for the investment, social and environment and technical
assistance components. The onlending terms are a maturity of 20 years
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of not less than 7.2 percent.
NEPA will bear the foreign exchange risk. US$1.3 million equivalent will
remain with the Government through FMPS for the change management component.
The on-lending part of the IDA credit will be transferred under the same
terms from NEPA to the successor TransysCo when it comes into being.
NEPA (and later the successor TransysCo) will have its financial statements
(including Project Accounts and any specialized accounts established under
the project) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with internationally
acceptable auditing standards, and by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA. These audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months after
the end of each fiscal year. Also, NEPA (and the successor TransysCo) will
submit its annual capital budget review to IDA prior to the end of each
fiscal year.
The PMU will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and
reporting procedures acceptable to NEPA, the FMPS and the World Bank are
adhered to. The PMU Financial Management System (FMS) is being developed in
accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan. Salient features of
the Action Plan include (a) the retention of a Financial Management
Consultant to advise on the selection and installation of the Project's FMS,
to prepare the Project's Financial Procedures Manual and to train staff in
the operation of the system; (b) the establishment of a representative
Financial Management Committee; (c) the appointment of a Project Accountant
and the availability of support staff; (d) capacity building; (e) the
establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts Register; (f)
monthly bank reconciliation and quarterly reporting of financial information;
(g) cash flow management including variance analysis; and (h) an annual
external audit of the project on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project is dependent on the implementation of the
FGN's overall power sector reform program. In particular the financial
viability of the TransysCo will depend on the revenues it collects from the
generation and distribution companies for which it provides services.
The social, environmental, financial and institutional sustainability of the
program will be underpinned through a combination of the following factors
which have been built into the project design:
Ownership by the Borrower and power sector stakeholders through broad
stakeholder consultation.
Fundamental institutional and structural transformation of the sector.
Adoption and implementation of a sustainable financial plan including a
retail tariff adjustment plan; and improved billing and collection through
private participation.
Adequate attention to the social aspect of sector restructuring, i.e.
providing assistance in change management.
Adequate institutional capacity building for management and operation of the
TransysCo and environment and social aspects of the investments.
-7 -



8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Major institutional change is needed.      The Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the last Bank project in the Nigerian power sector states
that: "Institutional deficiencies are the source of NEPA's technical and
financial problems, and any project that attempts a technical solution
without a major institutional change that guarantees autonomy in operations
will produce results that are not sustainable and waste scarce resources."
The proposed program incorporates institutional change directly by setting
the goal of establishing a commercially operating transmission company as a
result of unbundling NEPA.
Importance of broad-based consensus for institutional change.       Experience
has shown that consultation leading to broad-based support is critical to the
success of fundamental institutional reforms in the power sector. The
Nigerian Government has established an active forum for stakeholder debate on
power sector reforms: the EPIC. As part of project preparation the PMU, with
Bank assistance, arranged a 2 day international workshop in November 2000 on
"Organizations and Functions of the New Transmission Company". The workshop
was well-attended: over 70 people representing the private sector, NEPA,
FMPS, Ministry of Finance and the National Assembly. The project will
continue to provide support for consensus-building relating to the structure
and functions of the new TransysCo and the transition process.
Continuity in management and implementation.       Experience from Bank-
supported power sector projects during sector restructuring highlights the
importance of ensuring continuity of project management throughout project
implementation. NEPA will be dismantled and the new TransysCo will become
the primary implementing agency for this project. The issue of continuity
has been discussed with NEPA from the outset of the project. In part to
address this issue, a PMU was established immediately after the Bank
identification mission. The PMU will move to the TransysCo.
Financial management.      Poor financial management results in delays and
occasionally misuse of funds. Financial Management arrangements are outlined
in section 6. Financial management requirements and responsibilities were
discussed and agreed at the early stage of project preparation with the
Manager and Accountant of the PMU, the Technical Board Member responsible for
this project, NEPA's Managing Director and Executive Director for Finance,
and the Director of Power at the FMPS.
Procurement management.      Inadequate procurement management causes delays
in contracting and often opens doors to corruption. So far, more than 25 NEPA
staff members, including four members of the PMU, have attended procurement
training courses/workshops. During the pre-appraisal mission, a two-day
workshop - an Introduction to Operations Procurement, Procurement Data
Management and Procurement Filing - was specifically conducted for NEPA. In
the PMU, there are two members assigned for procurement management and the
Project Accountant has received training on procurement.
Support and monitoring of environmental and social aspects.       When the
major focus of a project is institutional reform, supervision and monitoring
of the environmental and social aspects of investment components are
sometimes neglected. Currently, there is inadequate institutional capacity in
the power sector to handle the environmental and social issues. The program
- 8 -



design includes a social and environment component. An ERSU will be
established at the outset of project implementation and will become a
permanent unit in the TransysCo.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Environment
Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) has been carried as part of project
preparation. There are no major environmental or social problems due to this
project. However, there are potential environmental issues associated with
pre-existing contamination at some of the project sites.
The EA could not eliminate the possibility that some of the sites might be
contaminated with PCB-containing materials. The project Environment
Management Plan (EMP) calls for Phase I environmental audits, including PCB
testing, at all substations prior to construction design. If the presence of
PCBs is confirmed, a Phase II audit will then be conducted to delineate the
extent and concentration of contamination. The Phase II audit results will
allow development of construction plans for new facilities designed to
minimize disturbance of contaminated areas and therefore human exposure. If
PCB is found at any of the sites, appropriate steps will be taken for
containment or removal. Any pre-existing environmental contamination will be
handled in compliance with the World Bank safeguard policies. Institutions,
frameworks and budget to implement mitigation measures are in place. The EIA
was sent to the Infoshop on February 7, 2001.
Currently, there is inadequate institutional capacity in the sector to handle
the environmental and social issues. A consultant will be hired to recommend
ERSU staffing, design a training program for the ERSU and to help establish
the ERSU.
Social
Retrenchment is expected in the process of restructuring and privatization,
although the amount of retrenchment associated with the establishment of the
TransysCo is expected to be small. The FGN, through BPE with the assistance
of the World Bank under the Privatization Support Project, is preparing a
comprehensive retrenchment policy for all public enterprises (including NEPA)
targeted for privatization. This policy will be in place before any
retrenchment associated with the creation of the TransysCo occurs. The change
management sub-component of the Technical Assistance component includes
development of a retrenchment program (section 4.2).
Consultation
The consultative process for this specific project was set in motion from the
outset of project preparation, with the two-day international workshop to
discuss functions and options for the new transmission company (November
2000). The PMU has a member specifically responsible for ensuring
participation in the existing vehicles for consultation on power sector
issues, for example the electricity market design and technical and
environmental sub-committees of EPIC.
-9-



The Government and NEPA Technical Board will accord high priority to
consultation with NEPA employees through a staff information campaign that
provides regular briefings to all staff on on-going and future activities of
NEPA restructuring and privatization. A public awareness consultant will be
hired in the next few months to design and implement the staff and public
awareness program. The consultant will also assist in the preparation of a
widely-advertised public project launch to take place at, or soon after,
credit effectiveness.
In preparing the EA for investment-related social and environmental issues,
NEPA, with assistance of the Consultant, met with all major stakeholders
(Government and NEPA staff at the substations). As no adverse environmental
or resettlement impacts due to the proposed project have been identified,
there has been no need for consultation with impacted groups. The site-
specific EMPs to be developed during project implementation will address
stakeholder and public consultation issues. These EMPs will be circulated to
all stakeholders for comment.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Junhui Wu
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-2447
Fax:   (202) 473-5123
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 15, 2001.
- 10 -



