Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3559 UNI
Development Credit Agreement
(Transmission Development Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 23, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3559 UNI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 2001, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated April 25, 2001, from the 
Borrower describing a program of objectives, policies and actions for the power sector 
designed to restructure National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) into separate 
companies for the generation, transmission and distribution of power, to privatize the 
generation and distribution companies, to establish a transmission and system 
operation company operating on a commercial basis and to establish an independent 
regulatory commission to regulate the power sector and to introduce competition (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower's agreement to the execution of the Program;
(C)
Parts A, B (3), B (4), B (5), B (6), B (7), B (8) and C of the Project 
will be carried out by NEPA with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will relend to NEPA a portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
as provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NEPA 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories;
(c)
"Environmental Mitigation Plan" means the Borrower’s plan dated February 
5, 2001 for the implementation of the Project in accordance with appropriate 
environmental standards and guidelines, and including, inter alia, the preparation of 
plans of action to mitigate adverse environmental effects; 
(d)
"Financial Procedures Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement containing detailed 
arrangements regarding the financial procedures to be used for the purpose of 
implementation of the Project, and such term includes any schedules to the Financial 
Procedures Manual; 
(e)
"FMPS" means the Borrower’s Federal Ministry of Power and Steel;
(f)
"NCC" means the National Control Center established in NEPA to handle 
generation dispatch and operation of the transmission system;
(g)
"Naira" means the currency of the Borrower;
(h)
"NACA" means the Borrower’s National Action Committee on AIDS;
(i)
"NEPA" means the National Electric Power Authority, established and 
Page  3
operating pursuant to the National Electric Power Authority Act 1972 (Act No. 24) of 
the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(j)
"Power  Sector  Sustainable Financial  Plan"  means the plan dated   
April 25, 2001 of the Borrower, describing the elements of the Borrower's plan to 
achieve and maintain financial viability in the power sector;
(k)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established within NEPA for 
purposes of procurement, funds administration, contracting and supervision of 
consultants and contractors, and coordination within NEPA and with stakeholders in the 
power sector;
(l)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and NEPA 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(m)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan dated May, 2001, as amended 
from time to time, setting out: (i) details of all procurement and disbursement 
arrangements under the Project; (ii) performance indicators for the Project; and (iii) 
such other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements as shall be 
required, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Plan; 
(n)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
September 21, 2000 and October 18, 2001 between the Borrower and the Association, as 
amended by an exchange of letters dated February 6, 2001 and April 3, 2001 between the 
Borrower and the Association;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(q)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NEPA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(r)
"TransysCo" means the transmission and system operation company to be 
established under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-eight million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 78,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
Page  4
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2012 and ending July 15, 2036.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2021 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  5
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry 
out Parts B (1) and B (2) of the Project through FMPS with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
management practices; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Credit Agreement, shall within the limits of its 
constitutional powers cause NEPA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of NEPA therein set forth, shall take or cause 
to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NEPA to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Categories (1), (2), (3) (a), and (4) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement to NEPA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include 
interest at a rate per annum not less than 7.2% and repayment of principal in twenty 
years (including a five-year grace period) and the assumption of the foreign exchange 
risk by NEPA.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Program, Power Sector Sustainable 
Financial Plan, and the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B (1) and B (2) of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
such Parts of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than April 1, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  7
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
NEPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and NEPA;
(b) 
the Borrower has caused NEPA to adopt the Financial Procedures Manual, 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
NEPA has established financial management systems acceptable to the 
Association, appointed a Financial Management Committee, and appointed external 
auditors for the Project in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3; and
(d)
the Borrower has caused NEPA to open the Project Account and deposit 
therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NEPA, 
and is legally binding upon NEPA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and NEPA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NEPA in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Honorable Minister
Federal Ministry of Finance
Page  8
Ahmadu Bello Way
Abuja, Nigeria
Cable address:
FEDMINFIN
Abuja
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By /s/ Adamu Ciroma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Lutz Woicke
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
(a) Supply and Installation
  41,000,000
100% of foreign
under Parts A  (1), A (2), 
expenditures,
A (3) and A (4) of the 
100% of local
Project
expenditures 
(ex-factory
(b) Supply and Installation
  12,600,000
cost) and 90% of local 
Page  9
under Part A (5) of the Project
expenditures for other
items procured 
locally
(c) Supply and Installation
   3,900,000
under Part B (7) of the Project
(2)
Goods
     100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 90% of 
local expenditures 
for other
items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’ Services
100%
and Training 
(a) Under Parts B (3), B (4),
  11,000,000
B (5), B (6), B (7), B (8) and 
C  of the Project
(b) Under Parts B (1) and  
   1,000,000
B (2) of the Project
(4)
Refunding
   1,600,000
Amount due of
Project
pursuant to
Preparation 
Section 2.02
Advance
of this 
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
   7,400,000
TOTAL
  78,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) under Category 1 (b) until the draft Electricity law has been approved 
by the Executive Council of the Borrower; and (c) under Category 1 (c) until TransysCo 
has been established with staffing and institutional structure satisfactory to the 
Association pursuant to Part B of the Project, including transfer of the PMU, and 
TransyCo has assumed the obligations of NEPA under the Project and Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) supply and 
installation under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (c) services of 
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (d) 
training, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall cause NEPA to open and maintain in US Dollars a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
Page  10
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions  of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to  this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement. 
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
Page  11
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term "Authorized Allocation" means:  an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $3,500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of 
amounts allocated to the Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said 
Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 11,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
Page  12
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $14,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the long-term performance of the 
power sector in the Borrower’s territory through: (i) increasing transmission capacity 
and the provision of reliable power supply; (ii) reducing transmission losses; and 
(iii) facilitating competition through development of an efficient wholesale power 
market and creation of Transysco.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Reinforcement of Transmission and System Dispatching
1.
Reinforcement of about five main grid substations through augmentation of 
transformers, provision of shunt reactors, and associated 330 and 132 kV bays.  
2.
Replacement of grid distance protection relays at approximately five generation 
stations and seven substations of 330 kV.
3.
Installation of grid system metering at 132 kV in order to enable the 
measurement of power supplied to distribution companies.
4.
Construction of NCC with:  (a) a supervisory control and data acquisition 
system; (b) an energy management system; (c) automatic generation control system; (d) 
a user interface system; and (e) information systems for administration of the power 
market.
5.
Reinforcement of communication facilities between the NCC and the generation 
stations and main grid substations.
Part B:
TransysCo
1.
Incorporation  of  TransysCo, with an appropriate legal, financial, corporate 
and managerial structure.
2.
Development of a program, including training and incentives for staff of NEPA, 
to facilitate their outplacement.
3.
Preparation and implementation of a business plan for TransysCo, including 
introduction of accounting, budgeting, and financial management systems.
4.
Establishment of a detailed regulatory framework for interconnection and use of 
the transmission grid, and provision of scheduling and dispatch services.  
5.
Carrying out of a feasibility study, design, engineering and preparation of 
technical specifications for future transmission lines, substations, reactive power 
compensation, energy management and communication systems.
6.
Carrying out a training program designed to enhance TransysCo's managerial, 
legal, technical and financial capabilities.
7.
Design and installation of a management information system for operation, 
financial management, and maintenance operations of TransysCo.
8.
Carrying out preparatory work for the development of a wholesale power market, 
including a power trade settlement system.
Part C:
Social and Environmental Component
1.
Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit for environmental and social 
activities by the PMU, including coordination with activities of NACA.
Page  13
2.
Preparation of environmental impact assessments, environmental management plans,  
resettlement assessments, and resettlement action plans.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and, (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for Parts A (4) and B (7) of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraphs 2.7 and 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines, provided standard bidding and contract documents for such contracts shall 
have been approved by the Association.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
Page  14
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, supply and installation, and 
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for strengthening of power sector management, and technical assistance 
and training for the regulatory agency, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Page  15
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, single-source 
selection, and training, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall cause NEPA to continue to maintain the PMU in a form and with 
functions and staffing necessary for successful Project implementation.  The PMU shall 
be responsible for coordinating and monitoring Project activities under NEPA’s 
Managing Director.  
2.
The Borrower shall carry out Parts B (1) and B (2) and shall cause NEPA to carry 
out Parts A, B (3), B (4), B (5), B (6), B (7), B (8) and C of the Project in 
accordance with the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan, and shall 
not, except as the Association may otherwise agree, amend or waive any provision 
thereof.
3.
The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views with regard to the tariff pricing policies and plans in 
respect of the overall development of the power sector.
Page  16
4.
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures, including the discharge of its 
own obligations, to ensure the achievement of the financial restructuring targets set 
out in the Power Sector Sustainable Financial Plan.
5.
Upon the establishment of TransysCo, the Borrower shall agree on necessary 
revisions to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement for the assumption by TransysCo in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association of NEPA's obligations thereunder in order to take 
account of the transfer of NEPA's transmission lines, system operations undertaking, 
system operation dispatch facilities; and containing adequate provisions to protect 
the interest of the Association and the Borrower.
6.
The Borrower shall cause NEPA to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and 
Program during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
