Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3559 UNI
Project Agreement
(Transmission Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY
Dated August 23, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3559 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY (NEPA).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies  
equivalent  to  SDR  seventy-eight  million  six  hundred  thousand,         (SDR 
78,600,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, 
but only on conditions that NEPA agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and NEPA, a portion of the proceeds of the credit allocated to Parts A, B (3), B (4), 
B (5), B (6), B(7),  B (8) and C of the Project provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to NEPA on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NEPA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Page  2
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)  NEPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A, B (3), B (4), B (5), B (6), B (7),  B (8) and C of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and NEPA shall otherwise agree, NEPA shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. NEPA shall: 
(a)
open and maintain an account (the "Project Account") in Naira in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in an 
amount equivalent to $2,000,000, to finance NEPA’s contribution to the costs of the 
Project;
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, semi-annually, the amount 
required to replenish the Project Account up to NEPA's contribution to the costs of 
the Project; and
(d)
use the funds in the Project Account exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.04. (a) NEPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively)    in respect  of    the  Project  
Agreement  and  Parts A, B (3), B (4), B (5), B (6), B (7), B (8) and C of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NEPA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and NEPA, a plan for the future  
operation of Parts A,  B (3),  B (4),  B (5), B (6), B (7), B (8) 
and C of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with NEPA on said plan.
Section 2.05 NEPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as contemplated under the Program and as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, NEPA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) NEPA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the  Association  with  regard  to  the progress of Parts A, B (3), B (4), B (5), 
B (6), B (7), B (8) and C of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to 
Page  3
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
NEPA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B (3), B (4), B 
(5), B (6), B (7), B (8) and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit, or the performance by NEPA of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. NEPA shall, prior to reinforcement of grid substations under Part A of 
the Project, mitigate adverse environmental effects, all in accordance with the 
Environmental Mitigation Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.08. Upon the establishment of TransysCo, NEPA shall: 
(a)
transfer to TransysCo its transmission lines and substations, system 
operations, dispatch and communication facilities, and associated property, interest 
in property, rights, and personnel in a manner consistent with the Program;
(b)
transfer to TransysCo the liabilities associated with the assets referred 
to in paragraph (a) above in a manner consistent with the Program;
(c)
transfer to TransysCo its obligations under this Project Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in accordance with the Program and with the 
consent of the Association; and
(d)
transfer to TransysCo its obligations associated with the transferred 
transmission lines and substations, system operations, dispatch and communication 
facilities in a manner consistent with the Program.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NEPA
Section 3.01. NEPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utilities 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NEPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. NEPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
Section 3.04. NEPA shall implement the Power Sector Sustainable Financial Plan 
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  NEPA shall establish and thereafter maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
NEPA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
Page  4
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may request.
Section 4.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, NEPA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) 
of said Section 4.01 in order to enable NEPA, not later than April 1, 2003, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NEPA shall 
achieve a current ratio of 0.9 for fiscal year 2002, and 1.0 for fiscal year 2003 and 
thereafter.  
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "current ratio" means current assets divided by current 
liabilities.
(ii)
The term "current assets" means all assets which could, in the 
ordinary course of business, be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including cash, accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(iii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could, under circumstances then 
existing, be called for payment within twelve months, including 
bank overdrafts, short-term loans, accounts payable, customer 
advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, and dividends.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NEPA shall 
generate a rolling three-year average on capital expenditures (for that year, the 
preceding fiscal year and the next fiscal year) for each of its fiscal years after its 
fiscal year ending on December 31, 2002, on funds from internal sources equivalent to 
not less than 7% for fiscal year 2003, and 17% for fiscal year 2004 and thereafter.
Page  5
(b)
Before December 31, NEPA shall, in each of its fiscal years, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by NEPA and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review upon 
its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that NEPA would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for NEPA's fiscal year covered by such review, NEPA shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, proposing 
adjustments of the structure and/or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and 
other non-cash operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the 
difference between current assets excluding cash and current 
liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and prepaid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt services requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of amount 
of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of NEPA maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(viii)Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(ix)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
Page  6
construction, related to operations.
(x)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of the International Monetary Fund rate of exchange.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
NEPA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Association shall promptly 
notify NEPA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
RTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For NEPA:
National Electric Power Authority
Plot 441
Zambezi Crescent
Maitama, Abuja
Nigeria
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NEPA may be 
taken or executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as NEPA 
shall designate in writing, and NEPA shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Page  7
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Abuja, Nigeria, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Lutz Woicke
Regional Vice President
Africa
NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY
By /s/ Liyel Imoke
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
NEPA shall continue to maintain the PMU in a form and with functions and 
staffing necessary for successful Project implementation.  The PMU shall be 
responsible for coordinating and monitoring Project activities under NEPA’s Managing 
Director.  
(b)
NEPA shall, as part of its training program and in consultation with the 
Association from time to time assign a sufficient number of appropriately qualified 
staff to work with consultants and contractors employed on the Project.
2.
NEPA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Page  8
