Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7591-ID 
Loan Agreement 
 
(BOS-KITA School Operational Assistance - Knowledge Improvement for  
Transparency and Accountability Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 08, 2008 
Page  2
Page  3
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated    October 08, 2008 between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$600,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement
 (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Page  4
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MONE in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  5
3
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
any of the BOS Establishment Documents have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability 
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.  
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
FINMINISTRY  
45799 DJMLN-IA 
(21) 381 2859 
 
 
Jakarta 
  44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Page  6
4
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Rahmat Waluyanto 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Chris Hoban 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve access to quality education in 
Indonesia for all children of ages 7 to 15 by strengthening school-based management and 
community participation, improving existing fiduciary arrangements for greater 
transparency and accountability of the BOS program and, consequently, bringing about 
better utilization of BOS funds.   
 
The Project consists of the following: 
 
BOS Operational Assistance School Grants
.
Provision by
 
the Borrower
 
of
BOS Grants to BOS Schools to finance BOS 
Eligible Expenditures set out in the BOS Operations Manual for: (1) Part 1: the BOS 
2008 Program; and (2) Part 2:  the BOS 2009 and Later Program. 
 
Page  8
6
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the implementation arrangements set out in the 
BOS Operations Manual, including the arrangements set out in this paragraph 1, 
as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.    
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that each BOS School shall maintain the BOS 
School Team established in accordance with the BOS Operations Manual 
and including the principal, a treasurer and a community/parent 
representative.  The Borrower shall ensure that each BOS School Team 
shall manage each BOS Grant received by such BOS School at all times 
in accordance with the BOS Operations Manual. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall maintain:  (i) in each District, a BOS District 
Management Team; (ii) in each Province, a BOS Provincial Management 
Team; and (iii) a BOS Central Management Team in MONE, in each 
case established in accordance with the BOS Operations Manual.  The 
Borrower shall ensure that each BOS District Management Team, each 
BOS Provincial Management Team and the BOS Central Management 
Team shall comply with all obligations assigned to it in the BOS 
Operations Manual. 
 
B. Implementation 
Obligations 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall:   
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the BOS Operations Manual; 
 
(b) 
ensure that the BOS Operations Manual is made available, at all times 
until completion of the Project, to all BOS Schools; 
 
(c) 
by no later than July 1, 2009, with the prior agreement of the Bank, 
adopt, make publicly available, and thereafter implement the Revised 
BOS Operations Manual for the BOS 2009 and Later Program, 
including, 
inter alia
:
(i)  
the requirement that each BOS School posts a record of 
purchasing information and results, and use of funds;  
Page  9
7
(ii)  
clarification of monitoring responsibilities of BOS Central 
Management Team, BOS Provincial Management Teams and 
BOS District Management Teams, including review of BOS 
School reports;   
(iii) 
 
clarification of composition and role of the purchasing 
committee at each BOS School which must consist of at least 
three (3) persons, at least one of whom is a parent representative 
from the local community;  
(iv) 
 
revised guidelines for procurement through community 
participation and shopping;   
(v)  
guidelines that strengthen the role of the school committee at 
each BOS School, including sign-off on budget plan and 
expenditure report; and 
(vi) 
the Anticorruption Guidelines; 
 
(d) 
undertake, during Fiscal Year 2009, a training program agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank, on the use of the Revised BOS Operations 
Manual;  
 
(e) 
only amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the 
BOS Operations Manual or the Revised BOS Operations Manual with 
consultation and agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; and 
 
(f) 
references to the BOS Operations Manual include the Revised BOS 
Operations Manual, commencing on the date on which such revised 
manual is adopted by the Borrower.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, at all times during the implementation of the Project, ensure 
that each BOS Grant is made to, and thereafter utilized by, the recipient BOS 
School on terms and conditions in accordance with BOS Operations Manual in 
effect at the time that such BOS Grant is made to, and thereafter utilized by, the 
recipient BOS School, including that: 
 
(a) 
each BOS Grant is made:  (i) to a BOS School meeting the requirements 
set out in the BOS Operations Manual; (ii) for an amount determined 
based on enrollment data for such BOS School collected in accordance 
with the BOS Operations Manual; and (iii) by deposit from the Province 
into the account established, operated and maintained by such BOS 
School, in accordance with the BOS Operations Manual; 
 
(b) 
each BOS School uses each BOS Grant for BOS Eligible Expenditures 
as set out in the BOS Operations Manual;  
 
Page  10
8
(c) 
each BOS School maintains operational and financial records on the use 
of each BOS Grant it receives; and 
 
(d) 
the Borrower and each BOS School implements the complaints handling 
mechanism and sanctions system in the case of mis-use of BOS Grant 
funds.  
 
3. 
The Borrower and the Bank shall each have the right to review records and 
accounts of BOS Schools. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than June 30, 2009, make available the BOS 
audit report for Fiscal Year 2008, meeting the requirements of Section II.B of 
this Schedule 2.    
 
5. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be utilized for:      
(a) any land or other land associated asset purchase or involuntary resettlement, 
as the BOS program does not support either the purchase or acquisition of land; 
(b) environmentally-hazardous goods; (c) items already covered under another 
financing source; (d) goods, works and services produced or supplied by 
contractors or suppliers, as the case may be, who are under sanction by the Bank; 
or (e) any goods, works or services which are not BOS Eligible Expenditures. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall implement the Transparency and Accountability Plan. 
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  With respect to each BOS Grant, 
the Borrower undertakes that each BOS Grant shall be carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of 
Loan proceeds other than the Borrower. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Attachment to this 
Schedule 2.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar 
quarter, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
Page  11
9
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
In the event of any adverse findings in any audit report referred to in the 
foregoing paragraph 3, the Borrower shall develop a course of action satisfactory 
to the Bank to address the situation within a reasonable period of time as required 
for satisfactory continued implementation of the Project. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
2. 
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Community 
Participation procedures set out in the BOS Operations Manual.
 
Page  12
10 
 
C.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
All contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”) the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) BOS Grants under Part 
1
of
the Project for the BOS 
2008 Program 
 
248,500,000 
60% of BOS Grants disbursed by 
the Borrower 
 
(2) BOS Grants under Part 
2
of
the Project for the BOS 
2009 and Later Program 
 
350,000,000 
60% of BOS Grants disbursed by 
the Borrower 
(3) 
Front-end 
Fee 
1,500,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 
2.07(b) of the General 
Conditions 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
600,000,000 
 
Page  13
11 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after September 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures; or   
 
(b) 
under Category 2:
 
(i)  
until the Borrower has made available to the Bank an audit 
report, acceptable to the Bank, for the BOS program for the 
Borrower’s Fiscal Year 2008; and  
 
(ii)  
except for expenditures incurred for the BOS program on or after 
the first day of the calendar quarter (being July 1, October 1, 
January 1 or April 1) that commences on or after the date on 
which the Borrower adopted the Revised BOS Operational 
Manual acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, each application 
for withdrawal under Category 1 and Category 2 shall be made on the basis of an 
authorized withdrawal application, including the quarterly interim financial 
report, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
.
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010.
 
Page  14
12 
 
ATTACHMENT to SCHEDULE 2  
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Project Development Objective 
Outcome Indicators 
To improve access to quality education for all 
children aged 7 to 15 by strengthening school-
based management and community participation, 
improving existing fiduciary arrangements for 
greater transparency and accountability of the BOS 
program, and consequently, bringing about better 
utilization of BOS funds.  
For Indonesian primary and junior secondary schools 
(disaggregated by gender, region and income 
quintile): 
ƒ
%
net enrollment rates  
ƒ
%
net drop out rates  
ƒ
%
transition rates 
ƒ
Average monthly household expenditure per 
child on education by poorest quintile 
 
Intermediate Results 
Intermediate Outcome Indicators 
Improved Management of BOS Funds: 
Schools 
improve their management of BOS funds. 
 
ƒ
%
of schools receiving funds on time 
ƒ
%
of schools receiving full allocation of funds 
based on student numbers 
ƒ
%
of school committees that approve annual 
budget plans 
ƒ
%
of school committees that receive expenditure 
reports 
ƒ
%
of schools that disclose the BOS expenditure 
by category on the notice board 
Increased Public Information and 
Dissemination regarding BOS: 
Improved 
accountability through communities and parents 
receiving more information regarding the BOS 
program. 
 
ƒ
Number/type of socialization materials 
distributed 
ƒ
%
of parents knowledgeable on BOS, its uses and 
school budgets and plans 
Improved Monitoring and Evaluation: 
BOS 
program managers, schools and communities 
increase their monitoring and evaluation of the 
program in order to improve its effectiveness.
 
ƒ
Annual consolidated reports produced as a result 
of MIS improvements 
ƒ
Final process evaluation and special studies 
undertaken 
Page  15
13 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
March 15, 2017 
1.90 
September 15, 2017 
1.95 
March 15, 2018 
2.00 
September 15, 2018 
2.05 
March 15, 2019 
2.10 
September 15, 2019 
2.15 
March 15, 2020 
2.20 
September 15, 2020 
2.26 
March 15, 2021 
2.32 
September 15, 2021 
2.37 
March 15, 2022 
2.43 
September 15, 2022 
2.49 
March 15, 2023 
2.56 
September 15, 2023 
2.62 
March 15, 2024 
2.69 
September 15, 2024 
2.75 
March 15, 2025 
2.82 
September 15, 2025 
2.89 
March 15, 2026 
2.96 
September 15, 2026 
3.04 
March 15, 2027 
3.11 
September 15, 2027 
3.19 
March 15, 2028 
3.27 
September 15, 2028 
3.35 
Page  16
14 
 
March 15, 2029 
3.44 
September 15, 2029 
3.52 
March 15, 2030 
3.61 
September 15, 2030 
3.70 
March 15, 2031 
3.79 
September 15, 2031 
3.89 
March 15, 2032 
3.99 
September 15, 2032 
4.09 
March 15, 2033 
4.19 
September 15, 2033 
4.31 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (
“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
Page  17
15 
 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
 
Page  18
16 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“BOS” means the Borrower’s Operational Aid to Schools (
Bantuan Operational 
Sekolah
)
program, established pursuant to the BOS Enabling Documents. 
3. 
“BOS 2008 Program” means the Borrower’s BOS program funded in the 
Borrower’s budget for Fiscal Year 2008, and covers only those disbursements 
made by the Borrower under BOS in the period January 1 – December 31, 2008. 
4. 
“BOS 2009 and Later Program” means the Borrower’s BOS program for which 
funding provision is included in the Borrower’s budget for Fiscal Year 2009 and 
each Fiscal Year thereafter during implementation of the Project, and covers only 
those disbursements made by the Borrower under BOS in the period of January 1 
–
December 31, 2009, and any Fiscal Year thereafter for which funding provision 
is made in the Borrower’s budget during Project implementation and during 
which period the Revised BOS Operations Manual is in effect. 
5. 
“BOS Central Management Team” means the management team at the central 
level of the Borrower, established and operating in accordance with the BOS 
Operations Manual. 
6. 
“BOS District Management Team” means each management team at the level of 
a
District of the Borrower in which BOS Schools are located, established and 
operating in accordance with the BOS Operations Manual, and “BOS District 
Management Teams” means more than one BOS District Management Team. 
7. 
“BOS Eligible Expenditures” means the list of items for which a BOS School 
may use a BOS Grant as set out in the BOS Operations Manual, as the same may 
be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 
8. 
“BOS Establishment Documents” means Law No. 20 of 2003 on the National 
Education System; Instruction of the President No. 5 of 2006 on the National 
Movement to Accelerate Full Accomplishment of Nine Years Mandatory Basic 
Education and Eradication of Illiteracy; and Joint Decree of the Minister of 
National  Education  and  the  Minister  of  Religion  No.  1/U/KB/2000  and             
No. MA/86/2000 on Pondok Pesantren Salafiyah as the Blueprint for Nine Years 
Mandatory Basic Education. 
Page  19
17 
 
9. 
“BOS Grant” means any of the grants to be provided by the Borrower to BOS 
Schools for BOS Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the BOS Operations 
Manual, and “BOS Grants” means more than one BOS Grant. 
10. 
“BOS Operations Manual” means the manual, dated 2007, issued by MONE, 
giving details of: (i) criteria for BOS School participation; (ii) the list of BOS 
Eligible Expenditures; (iii) implementation arrangements at the BOS School, 
District, Province and central government levels; (iv) BOS Grant disbursement 
mechanisms; (v) financial reporting and auditing requirements at each 
governmental level; (vi) monitoring, supervision and reporting requirements; 
(vii) complaints handling and sanctions, and (viii) information campaigns, as the 
same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; and after 
the adoption by the Borrower of the Revised BOS Operations Manual in 
accordance with paragraph 1(c) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
the term “BOS Operations Manual” includes the Revised BOS Operations 
Manual, as the same may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank. 
11. 
“BOS Provincial Management Team” means each management team at the level 
of a Province of the Borrower in which BOS Schools are located, established and 
operating in accordance with the BOS Operations Manual, and “BOS Provincial 
Management Teams” means more than one BOS Provincial Management Team. 
12. 
“BOS School” means each school under the authority of MONE, meeting the 
eligibility criteria set out in the BOS Operations Manual which receives a BOS 
Grant, and excludes those schools which are not under the authority of MONE 
(including religious and private schools), and “BOS Schools” means more than 
one BOS School. 
13. 
“BOS School Team” means each management team at the level of a BOS School, 
established and operating in accordance with the BOS Operations Manual, and 
“BOS School Teams” means more than one BOS School Team.  
14. 
 “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
15. 
“District” means an administrative sub-division of a Province. 
 
16. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31. 
 
17. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
Page  20
18 
 
18. 
“MONE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of National Education, and any 
successor agency thereto. 
 
19. 
“Part” means Part or Part 2 of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as applicable. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
21. 
“Province” means an administrative sub-division of the Borrower’s territory. 
 
22. 
“Revised BOS Operations Manual” means the BOS Operations Manual, as 
revised pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1(c) of Section I.B of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, to be issued by MONE for the BOS 
2009 and Later Program, as the same may be revised from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank. 
 
23. 
“Transparency and Accountability Plan” means the plan, adopted by the 
Borrower on September 5, 2008, designed to integrate the contents of the       
Anti-corruption Guidelines and to strengthen management control over BOS 
while also improving program governance and enhancing corruption prevention 
efforts.   
 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
Page  21
19 
 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
