                                 Document of
                                The World Bank

                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                   Report No: 65452 v1
                                                              _______-ID




                          RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                     ON A

                   PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                               OF
INDONESIA - BOS KNOWLEDGE IMPROVEMENT FOR TRANSPARENCY AND
                   ACCOUNTABILITY PROJECT
                         LOAN 7906-ID
                         April 23, 2010


                                    TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                                November 1, 2011




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2011)

                         Currency Unit =         Indonesian Rupiah (IDR)
                                US$ 1 =          IDR 8,869


                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 – December 31



                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOS           Bantuan Operasional Sekolah (School Operational Assistance)
BOS-KITA      School Operational Assistance - Knowledge Improvement for Transparency and
              Accountability
GoI           Government of Indonesia
IG            Inspectorate General - (Internal Auditor)
ISR           Implementation Status and Results Report
MoF           Ministry of Finance
MoNE          Ministry of National Education
SBM           School Based Management




                      Vice President:      James W. Adams
           Country Manager/Director:       Stefan G. Koeberle
                     Sector Director:      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
                    Sector Manager:        Luis Benveniste
                  Task Team Leader:        Ratna Kesuma
                          INDONESIA
 INDONESIA - BOS KNOWLEDGE IMPROVEMENT FOR TRANSPARENCY AND
                        ACCOUNTABILITY
                            P107661
                           CONTENTS

                                                                                                                            Page



I.     Introductory Statement............................................................................................ 3
II.    Background and Reasons for Restructuring............................................................ 3
III.   Proposed Change to the Grant Agreement and Rationale....................................... 5
IV.    Analysis................................................................................................................... 5
V.     Expected Outcomes................................................................................................. 6
VI.    Benefits and Risks................................................................................................... 6




                                                              1
DATA SHEET

Date: November 1, 2011                               Task Team Leader: Ratna Kesuma
Country: Republic of Indonesia                       Sector Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Project Name: BOS Knowledge Improvement for Sector Manager: Luis Benveniste
Transparency and Accountability                      Country Director: Stefan G. Koeberle
Project ID: P107661                                  Environmental Category: C
Recipient: Republic of Indonesia
Responsible agency: Ministry of National Education,
Directorate General Management of Basic Education,
Jl. Jend. Sudirman, Senayan E Bldg. 5th Floor, Indonesia
Phone: (62-21)572-5057; Fax (62-21) 572-5606
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USD)

FY                       2010                             2011                       2012
Annual                      177,897,468                      322,102,532                        0
Cumulative                  177,897,468                      500,000,000              500,000,000

Current closing date: 12/31/2012
Revised closing date: 12/31/2012

Indicate if the restructuring is:
CD approved               X
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to      __ Yes   X No
Bank policies?

Revised project development objective/outcomes:

No revision is proposed to the project development objectives and outcome indicators.

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No

                                 Revised Financing Plan (USD)
            Source                 Local         Foreign                     Total
Recipient                         500,000,000       -                                 500,000,000




                                            2
I. Introductory Statement
   a. This Project Restructuring Paper seeks the approval of the Country Director for a
      Level 2 amendment to the Indonesia: BOS-KITA AF.
   b. The amendment proposed by MoF is to Section IV. A2 of the Loan Agreement to
      reflect changes in the Bank portion resulting in the Bank disbursing 100% of BOS
      grants financed in 2011 instead of the currently specified 40%.
   c. The proposed amendment does not change Project Development Objectives,
      Outcome Indicators or Safeguard status and falls under the category of minor
      restructuring.

II. Background and Reasons for Restructuring
    a. Background: The original US$600 million specific investment loan for BOS-
         KITA became effective on November 11, 2008. It was supplemented with
         Additional Financing through another specific investment loan of US$500
         million, which became effective on October 21, 2010. The second loan was
         designed to facilitate activities to help “scale-up? the project’s development
         effectiveness. Both loans are designed to further strengthen the fiduciary
         arrangements of the GoI’s BOS Program procedures for (i) financial management;
         (ii) procurement; and (iii) governance. They enable the reimbursement of a
         portion of the GoI’s 2010, 2011 and 2012 BOS grants to public and private,
         primary and junior secondary schools under the auspices of MoNE. Both loans
         are scheduled to close on December 31, 2012.
     b. Original Project Development Objective: The objective of the Project is to
         improve access to quality education in Indonesia for all children of ages 7 to 15
         by strengthening school-based management and community participation,
         improving existing fiduciary arrangements for greater transparency and
         accountability of the BOS program and, consequently bringing about better
         utilization of BOS funds.
      c. Intermediate Outcomes: (i) Improved management of BOS funds (schools to
         improve their management of BOS funds); (ii) Increased Public Information and
         Dissemination regarding BOS (improved accountability through communities and
         parents receiving more information about the BOS program; and, (iii) Improved
         Monitoring and Evaluation (BOS program managers, schools and communities
         increase their monitoring and evaluation of the program in order to increase
         effectiveness.
      d. Project performance related to project development objectives, outputs and
         implementation:
         (i) Supervision activities confirm that the BOS-KITA support has contributed
               in important ways to a strengthened BOS program in terms of GoI
               monitoring and the complementary and highly effective oversight provided
               through formal institutional structures such as policy to strengthen the role
               of School Committees.
         (ii) The BOS program has played a vital role in mainstreaming SBM practices
               to facilitate an enabling environment for resource allocation. However, since
               the GoI decision to decentralize the BOS program in December 2010 there

                                             3
               has been a marked delay in onward transfer of funds to schools by
               districts/cities, and the different treatment of private and public schools is an
               additional concern.
         (iii) MoF and MoNE have been quick to recognize problems associated with
               decentralizing BOS and are planning to make significant changes to
               disbursement and reporting mechanisms for 2012 with a return to Provincial
               disbursement mechanisms (similar to those in 2010). This is expected to
               reduce delays in disbursement and improve required reporting to MoF.
         (iv) The ISR Ratings table below shows that performance ratings have been
               constant over the last year with the exception of:
               (a) Financial Management where the rating was downgraded from MS to
                    MU. Districts and schools were ill-prepared to implement BOS 2011:
                    transfers were delayed; there was confusion at district level over which
                    regulations should be applied school financial management was poor
                    and insufficiently supervised. It is expected that this status will change
                    as a result of:
                    • Increased District BOS Management Team competence as a result of
                        participation as School Management Team Trainers for the
                        nationwide BOS training. Nominated DEO BOS Management Team
                        members (including Supervisors) have been trained to conduct the
                        modularized training (under the guidance of Master Trainers). The
                        training has a strong emphasis on school plans, budgets and financial
                        management (the Principal/Head Teacher, Treasurer and a School
                        Committee member or Parent Representative are the targeted
                        participants).
                    • The planned change to the 2012 disbursement mechanism which
                        reverts to one similar to that in 2010 (refer 3 d. ii above).
               (b) Project Management where the rating was downgraded from S to MS.
                    • Under decentralized BOS management experienced Provincial BOS
                        Management teams ceased to exist with BOS-related work
                        designated to Basic Education staff. District team membership
                        increased, staffed by 30 people (approximately) from across the local
                        government.
                    • School BOS Management Teams exist at school level and are meant
                        to be comprised of the Principal/Head Teacher, the School Treasurer
                        and a Non-School Committee Member Parent Representative.
                        Review findings indicate that only 30% (approx.) of schools visited
                        had a Non-School Committee Member Parent Representative,
                        highlighting the need to better describe the role of the School
                        Committee.
     ISR Ratings                            06/26/2010           05/26/2011
Project Development Objective               S                    S
Implementation Progress                     MS                   MS
Financial Management                        MS                   MU
Project Management                          S                    MS

                                              4
   Counterpart Funding                        S                         S
   Procurement                                MS                        MS
   Monitoring and Evaluation                  S                         S

III. Proposed Change to the Grant Agreement and Rationale
     MoF has proposed the following amendment:

  Category               ORIGINAL         ORIGINAL              PROPOSED               PROPOSED
                         Amount of Loan                         AMENDMENT              AMENDMENT
                         Allocated        Percentage       of   Amount of Loan         Percentage       of
                         (expressed  in   Expenditures to be    Allocated (expressed   Expenditures to be
                         USD)             Financed (inclusive   in USD)                Financed (inclusive
                                          of Taxes)                                    of Taxes)
  (1) BOS Grants         175,000,000      40% of BOS Grants     177,897,468            40% of BOS Grants
  under part 1 of the                     disbursed by the                             disbursed by the
  Project for the BOS                     Borrower.                                    Borrower.
  2010 Program.

  (2) BOS Grants         325,000,000      40% of BOS Grants     322,102,532            100% of BOS Grants
  under part 2 of the                     disbursed by the                             disbursed by the
  Project for the BOS                     Borrower.                                    Borrower.
  2011 and Later
  Program.



     The restructuring is required to accelerate the disbursement of the Loan to meet the
     GoI’s fiscal gap for this budget year. This will mean that the Bank will disburse 100%
     of BOS Grants financed in 2011 in lieu of the currently agreed 40%.

IV. Analysis
    The Bank Team agrees with this proposed amendment request finding that:
    a. The proposed change has occurred as a result of (i) decentralizing BOS and
       associated changes which negatively affected disbursement; and (ii) slow
       submission of required MoF reports by districts.
    b. The proposed amendment does not affect project implementation. The loan
       refinances an ongoing GOI project and overall resources for the project remain the
       same with or without the increased financing proposed under the amendment.
    c. Under the conditions of the loan, the BOS manual must at all times be acceptable
       to the Bank. The 2011 BOS Manual was reviewed as required by the
       disbursement condition for Category 2. The 2011 BOS Manual was determined
       to be acceptable to the Bank, and the Bank notified GOI on October 14, 2011 that
       the condition had been met. The 2011 BOS Manual will continue to apply to all
       withdrawals based on government BOS expenditure in FY 2011. It is expected
       that all remaining reimbursement will be against government BOS expenditure in
       FY2011.
    d. In 2011, the GoI and the Bank agreed that the withdrawal application for
       refinancing would be based on individual district reports which stated (i) the total
       amount of BOS funds received from MoF; (ii) the number of schools receiving
       grants; and (iii) the total BOS resources transferred to schools. Despite efforts by
       MoF and MoNE to speed up district reporting only 287 out of 497 (58%) had

                                                     5
          submitted the necessary reports by the first week in October 2011. This resulted
          in a smaller proportion of total GoI BOS spending eligible for refinancing.
     e.   BOS program implementation and district disbursement of BOS grants has been
          acceptable, although district reporting slow: (i) all BOS grants for the first half of
          2011 and 76% of grants in the third quarter are already disbursed; (ii) schools are
          using funds for intended purpose; (iii) transparency at school level is improving;
          and (iv) School Committees are playing a more active role in developing and
          approving school development plans and BOS related expenditure reports.
     f.   BOS monitoring is now institutionalized with districts integrating these activities
          into routine district operations and local IG.
     g.   Disbursement delays will be reduced and MoF reporting improved as a result of
          MoNE and MoF’s plans to return to pre-2010 Provincial disbursement
          mechanisms. The proposed Level 2 restructuring: (i) does not affect the original
          economic, financial, technical, institutional, or social aspects of the project as
          appraised; (ii) does not raise the environmental category of the project; (iii) does
          not trigger new safeguard policies; and (iv) does not involve any exceptions to
          Bank policies.
     h.   Analyses and studies on project file in support of the proposed amendment
          include: ISR May 26, 2011; Aide Memoire: BOS-KITA Second World Bank
          Implementation Support Review (January 18 – May 13, 2011); ISR June 29,
          2010; Project Paper April 23, 2010.

V. Expected Outcomes
   a. The proposed change will enable GoI to meet its fiscal gap this budget year.
      Under the amended refinancing criteria, project indicators and outcome targets
      will not change. There is no adjustment to the yearly achievement target in the
      monitoring framework since some disbursement, against government spending on
      BOS in FY 2011, may occur in early 2012.

VI. Benefits and Risks
    a. This amendment will accelerate loan disbursement and enable GoI to meet the
       fiscal gap this financial year.
    b. No additional risks are introduced by the proposed amendment, in itself a risk
       management strategy.




                                                6
