Doemst of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqit N.. 9150
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
(CREDIT 1117-BD)
DECEMBER 3, 1990
Resident Mission in Bangladesh
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performanee of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorizaton.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -    Asian Development Bank
BSB         -     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
DFI         -     Development Finance Institution
GOB         -     Government of Bangladesh
IDA         -     International Development Agency
KfW         -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
L/C         -     Letter of Credit
PCR         -     Project Complet:on Report
SLA         -     Subsidiary Loan Agreemient
TA          -     Technical Assistance
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme



roB OrnmaL Un ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, DC 20413
U.S A
Ofte i4 DwectrewCi
OpwaI t   StW
December 3, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Second Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project
(Credit 1117-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Second Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project
(Credit 1117-BD)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without Wod Bank autboriao.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
(CREDIT 1117-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .             ..............................................................                                    i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ....................................................                                             iii
PART  I.   PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  THE  BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE  .................                                          I
1.   Project  Identity  ...........................................                                           1
2.   Background  and  Sectoral  Context  ............................                                         1
3.   Project  Obiectives  and  Description  .........................                                         1
4.   Project  Design  and  Organization  ............................                                         2
5.   Project  Implementation  .....................................                                           3
6.   Major  Results  of  the  Project  ...............................                                        4
7.   Project  Sustainability   .....................................                                          6
8.  IDA Performance .................................                                        .                8
9.    Borrower  Performance  .......................................                                         10
10.    Project  Relationship   .......................................                                        11
11.    Consultir,g  Services   ........................................                                       11
12.   Project  Documentation  and  Data  .............................                                        11
PART  II.    PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  THE  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE   ....                              .........        12
1.0   The  Project  ................................................                                          13
2.0   Project  Background  and  Its  Objectives   ......................                                      13
3.0   Project  Implementation  Position  ............................                                         13
4.0   T.A.  Fuads  .................................................                                          15
5.0   Conclusion  .................................................                                           17
PART  III.    STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  ....................................                                            31
Table    1:   Related  Bank  Loans  .........................................                                           31
Table   2:   Project  Tlmetable ...................................                                     .....           32
Table  3:  Credit Disbursement ................................. .....                                                  33
Table    4:   Use  of  Bank  Staff  Resources ......................  .........                                         34
Table    5:    Project  Implementation  .....................................                                           35
Table   6:   Free  Limit  Subprojects .....................................                                             36
Table    7:   Collection  Performance  .....................................                                            37
Table   8:   Aging  of  Arrears  ...........................................                                            38
Table    9:   Analysis  of  Arrears  ........................................                                           39
Table 10:  Collection Ratios and Arrears on IDA-Financed Subprojects ..                                                 40
Table  11:    Time  and  Cost  Overruns  of  IDA  Subprojects   ..................                                      41
Table  12:   Geographical  Distribution  of  IDA  Subprojects ...............                                           42
Table  13:    Status  of  Covenants  ........................................                                           43
Table  14:   Bangladesh  Shilpa  Bank  Balance  Sheets ......................                                           44
Table  15:    Bangladesh  Shilpa  Bank  Income  Statements  ...................                                         45
Table  16:   Assistance  by  Sector  and  Subloan  ...........................                                          46
This documnent has a restrictcd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oi their official duties Its contcnts mas not otherwise be disclosed witlout World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
(CREDIT 1117-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) Project in Bangladesh, for which IDA Credit No.
1317-BD in the amount of US$50.0 million was approved on March 19, 1981. The
loan was closed on October 31, 1986 after an extension of six months. Only
US$20.87 million was disbursed; the last disbursement being made in December
1986.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Unit of the
Residenit Mission in Bangladesh and the Industry and Energy Operations Division
of Country Department 1, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts 1 and
III). No comments were solicited from the Borrower under Part II in view of
the special procedures for delayed PCRs. However, commnents were prepared by
BSB and are included as Part II. These were dated September 1990 and update
some of the data obtained by the PCR mission late in 1989.
Preparation of this PCR was started in November 1989, and is based,
inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit and Project
Agreements; visits to BSB; on-site visits to some subprojects; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
(CREDIT 11l7-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives. This project followed up the First Bangladesh Shilpa
Bank (BSB) Project and aimed at expanding private investment in non-
traditional, export-oriented, efficient import-substituting industries and in
less developed areas. The Credit also sought to strengthen BSB's
institutional development, with particular emphasis on its economic and
sectoral review activities and reduction of arrears (para 3.01).
Implementation Experience. The principal shortcomings in
implementing were BSB's failure to commit and disburse the entire funds
available under the credit and its inability to select viable subprojects.
Only 42Z of the credit amount was disbursed mainly because of: delays by
subborrowers in raising equity; slowdown in disbursement caused by the
suspension of the credit; and lack of suitable subborrowers. The approved
subprojects were equally distributed amongst fully export-oriented, fully
import-substituting and partly export-orieiLted industries, as well as, among
developed, less developed, and least developed areas. Subproject
implementation was not satisfactory, and almost all subprojects suffered from
time and cost overruns (para 5.02).
Results. The project objectives were largely unniet. While the
objectives of regional distribution and expansion of export-oriented
industries were largely met, the project had a limited impact on industrial
growth, value added, and employment. Thus, of the 30 subprojects financed, at
the end of 1989, 26 were in commercial operation, three were completed but not
in commercial operation, and one was in the pre-operating stage. Only 58Z of
the subprojects in commercial operation were operating at a profit, and the
other 42? were oper.ting at a loss (para 6.02). The annual aggregate
collection ratios for the subprojects were 5Z, 11Z, and 18?, respectively, for
FY87, FY88 and FY89. While five of the 30 subloans have been fully repaid,
the remaining 25 subloans were in arrears (para 6.05). Efforts to strengthen
BSB institutionally had limited success, and coupled with its poor financial
performance, BSB continues to be financially unviable (para 6.07).
Sustainability. Neither the project nor BSB are sustainable. As
long as BSB continues to finance subprojects that eventually run into arrears
and uncollectible loans, it will not achieve financial viability (para 7.01).
Current efforts by BSB to reverse this trend have not been successful, and
further efforts are necessary (para 7.02).



- iv -
Findings and Lessons Learned. The project failed to achieve any of
its objectives. Important lessons have been learned from this failure. It is
now clear that the success of such a project depends not only on the onlending
institution but also on the environment in which it is operating. The lack of
a supportive credit environment because of inadequate legal framrawork for debt
recovery, ineffective debt recovery efforts, and an atmosphere supporting
willful default, had a major impact on the project and contributed to its
failure (para 8.04). Moreover, it is also apparent that financial and/or
institutional restructuring of publicly owned entities--whether banks or other
types of organizations--without other fundamental reforms in the way the
public enterprises operate, will most likely be unsuccessful. The current
system of excessive government controls, lack of accountability, and the use
of enterprises for non-commercial objectives will continue to make public
enterprises inefficient. Public enterprises must be carefully assessed before
being considered for Bank operations (pp-as. 8.03-8.11).
Borrower's Assessment. The Bor.ower's comments on this evaluation,
contained in Part II, differ greatly from the findings of IDA. They were
drafted by BSB and conclude that implementation was 'more or less
satisfactory." They indicate that most of the shortcomings ascribed by IDA to
BSB an. its implementation of the project are a function of circumstances
external to and beyond the control of BSB and often also of its subborrowers.
These problems include unfavorable economic conditions, the effects of
devaluation on subborrowers' ability to bear foreign exchange risks, working
capital shortages, natural disasters, and subborrowers' technical, marketing
and managerial deficier.cies, for example. BSB's comments are also critical of
the time taken by IDA to process subprojects submitted for approval. Finally,
BSB maintains that its problems are largely behind it and that collection
should improve greatly following a recently completed portfolio review and
renegotiations of debt with its clients.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
(CREDIT 1117-BD)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identitv
- Project Name:      Second Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) Project
- Credit No:         1117-BD
- RVP Unit:          Asia Region, Country Department I
- Country:           Bangladesh
- Sector:            Industry
- Subsector:         Export Promoting and Import Substituting
2. Background and Sectoral Context
2.01      Since the mid 1970's, GOB's major industrial sector objectives
consisted of: expanding the role of tne private sector in industrial development;
increasing exports, particularly non-traditional exports; and enhancing
efficiency of the public manufacturing enterprises. To achieve these objectives,
GOB initiated efficiency improvement programs in the public manufacturing
enterprises, liberalized private sector investments and increased private sector
investment allocations in the Five Year Plans, expanded the industrial term
lending operations of nationalized commercial and development banks, and expanded
promotional and incentive schemes for exports.
2.02      Consistent with GOB's industrial development objectives outlined above,
BSB's overall lending strategy (including that under the project) emphasized
financing the private sector, regionally balanced industrialization, and export
oriented and efficient import substitution industries. This financing strategy
was also expected to lead to improved income distribution and employment
generation.
3. Project ObJectives and Description
3.01      Project Objectives.  The project concept was based on the first BSB
Project (Cr. 632-BD). Its main objectives were to: (i) assist GOB in expanding
the private sector's role in non-traditional export oriented and efficient import
substitution industries, and projects in less developed areas; (ii) further
strengthen BSB's institutional capabilities, with particular emphasis on its
economic and sectoral review activities; and (iii) develop an integrated
monitoring and control system of legal instruments and inter-bank coordination to
reduce the level of arrears on term loans from the banking system. To support
these objectives, IDA provided a Credit of US$50 million.
3.02      Project Components.  The project had two components: (i) a lending
component of about US$49.75 million for BSB to provide subloans to finance the
foreign exchange costs of public and private sector subprojects; and (ii) a



- 2 -
technical assistance (TA) component of about US$25C,000 to finance the services
of an industrial economist for 24 months in the event of unavailability of UNDP
funds for this purpose.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01      Based on the subproject pipeline at appraisal, and new subprojects
coming into the pipeline, net subloan approvals were forecast to increase by
about 102-12Z p.a. between FY81-FY83. On this basis, BSB's resource gap was
estimated at about US$110 million, of which US$60 million was to be financed
under this project. While the project design correctly reflected the substantial
demand for investment funds, more emphasis should have been given to the
following factors:
(i)   The environment prevailing in the financial sector was not favorable to
the effective use of credit for stimulating economic growth and
development. Credit decisions were largely influenced by political
motives. BS. and oLher government-owned banks were seen primarily as
channels for rapidly disbursing donor funds. There was a widespread
perception amongst BSB staff and borrowers that repayment of loans was
not very important and that political pressures could be put on BSB not
to enforce recovery. The inadequacies of the debt recovery system
wlhich supported this situation could have bean addressed more
vigorously. Thus the commercial, political and administrative reality
in which BSB was operating was not sufficiently recognized in the
project, and it was implicitly but incorrectly assumed that the poor
performance in the Fast was almost entirely due to inadequacies within
BSB.
(ii) In designing the projecL, greater attention should have been paid to
the low absorptive capacity of the nascent entrepreneurial class, the
lack of mechanisms for providing good quality credit information on
existing and potential investors, and market intelligence on sectoral
investment. The project should have provided more TA (e.g. s;eminars
and technical advice to the project sponsors, and TA for the
development of credit and market intelligence systems) to deal with
these institutional problems.
(iii) Between FY76-FY80, loan approvals increased almost 10OZ p.a. While
such rapid growth was expected, given the suppressed investment climate
in the early 70's, there was a need to critically examine whether sound
lending could have taken place at such high growth rates, particularly
considering BSB's institutional weaknesses. It is now clear that the
majority of loans made during this era have become bad.
(iv) Despite the fact that the collection ratio was around 1OZ-40I during
FY76-FY79 and over 90% of the subloans were in arrears at the time of
appraisal, the apparent profitability indicated by BSB's accounts was
accepted without question. Similarly, BSB's ability to continue to-be
profitable with such high arrears was not questioned. Had a critical
and thorough analysis been conducted (as was done later during
supervision), it would have been clear that the apparent profitability
was more a result of inappropriate accounting policies than of good



- 3 -
performance. These policies masked an unsustainable financial position
and the fact that the spreads of around 5.52 then available to BSB
(para 7.01) were totally inadequate to support the poor quality of its
portfolio.
(BSB expresses serious reservations about these conclusions in its detailed
observations in Part II.)
5. Project Implementation
5.01      Being a follow-up project, it started on time.  However, implementation
was not satisfactory. Due to continuing deterioration in
BSB's collection performance, the Credit was informally suspended from October
1982 to February 1983. The project closed in October 1986, after a six month
extension to allow for disbursement of already committed funds.
5.02      Subloan Component.  The highlights of the subloan component
implementation are as follows:
(i)   A total of 36 subloans were approved between effectiveness and March
1984, when IDA stopped approving any further subloans due to BSB's poor
performance. After lifting the suspension, IDA approved only two
additional subloans.
(ii)  After cancellations, 30 subloans were extended, of which 27 were for
new subprojects and three were for modernization and expansion. Total
subproject costs were US$51.4 million, of which IDA subloans financed
US$20.9 million.
(iii) At appraisal, it was expected that 25Z by number and 50Z by amount of
subprojects would be reviewed by IDA. In fact, about 60? by number and
93Z by amount of subprojects were subjected to prior review by IDA
because there were more subloans over US$300,000 than anticipated.
(iv)  In terms of product market, the number of subprojects were relatively
equally distributed among fully export-oriented, fully import-
substitution, and partly export-oriented industries. Similarly, in
regards to locttion, subprojects were relatively equally distributed
among developed, less developed, and least developed areas.
(v)   The subsectora]. composition of the subloans was: paper, paper products
and printing (.9.32); food and allied products (23.22); cotton and
woolen textiles (21.8Z); jut: a..d allied products (12Z); non-aetailic
mineral products (4.5Z); and other (9.2Z).
(vi)  A substantial number of projects had both time and cost overruns (Table
11). Forty percent of the subprojects had time overruns of one to two
years, mainly because of delays in raising equity, opening letters of
credit (L/Cs), completing loan docamentation, and management problems.
Thirty-seven percent of the subpro,ects had cost overruns of 30Z-lCOZ
beceuse of implementation delays, changes in project design and scope,
inflation, and urderestimation of subproject costs. Time and cost



-4-
overruns were one of the major factors contributing to tne subsequent
increase in arrears.
(vii) Credit disbursements were 421 of appraisal estimates (Table 3). The
main reasons for the low disbursement were: (a) delays in opening L/Cs
because of project sponsors' inability to fulfill BSB's requirement
that import duties on machinery bp deposited in cash before opening
L/Cs; (b) slow disbursement for many subprojects which had to be
reappraisec after lifting of the Credit suspension in view of changes
that occurred during the period of suspension; and (c) rejection of a
large rnumber of subloan applications toward the end of the subloan
approval period because of tighter appraisal stdndards in line with the
recommendations of the Industrial Economic Consultant.
5.03      Technical Assistance Component.  The Industrial Economic Consultant
appointed by BSB, under this project, completed three model sub-sectoral stud'es
and 11 model sectoral profiles. These subsectoral studies are being used by
investors and BSB as guidelines for subsectoral investments. The Consultant also
contributed towards improving the appraisal standard.
5.04      Risk Assessment.  Th3 main risks identified in the SAR were the
investment climate and BSB's arrears. While these risks, particularly the
latter, contributed to po(r performance under the Credit, niany other risks were
not fully covered including an unconducive credit environment, BSb's operating
and institutional weaknesses, and the lack of sufficiently skilled entrepreneurs
(Para 4.01).
6. Major Results of the Project
6.01      The project objectives were largely unmet.  First, less than 502 of the
Credit amount was disbursed, and the objective of expanding the private scctor's
role in industrial investment was only partially realized. Second, as noted
below, the actual performance of the subprojects has been unsatisfactory,
limiting their impart on industrial growth, value added, and employment.
Finally, the objective of establishing an efficient and financially viable DFI
remains to be r-alized.
6.02      Subloan Component.  While the lending pattern met the regional
distribution objectives and also financed export oriented subprojects, half the
subproje,.ts are operating at a loss or not operating at all. Of the 30
subprojects financed, at the time of PCR preparation (end-19o9) 26 were in
commercial operation, three were completed but not in commercial operation, and
one was in the pre-operating stage. Only 15 subprojects, representing 582 of the
subprojects in commercial operation, were operating at a profit while 11
subprojects were operatin' at a loss.
6.03      Twelve subprojects, representing 401 of the total, were visited by the
PCR mission during November 1989. Eight subprojects were in good running
condition although only five admitted that they were operating at a profit. The
common element found in each of those profitable concerns was an interested group
of entrepreneurs, highly skilled in their line of business and personally
nterested in the stbproject. Three of the subprojects visited were not in
commercial operation and one was abandoned due to management problems.



-5-
6.04      In terms of their operations and repayment performance, no significant
differences could be found between the export oriented and import substituting
firms.
6.05      While five subloqns have been fully paid off by subborrowers by
refinancing their BSB lcans with cheaper commercial bank credit, the collection
ratio and arrears for project subloans are unsati3factory (Table 10), and not too
different from the ratios for BSB as a whole. Only a few (2-4) subprojects were
regular in their repayments; tie rest defaulted. The yearly collection ratio for
project subloans ia F-'87, FY88, and FY89 was 52, llZ, and 18X, respectively. In
FY89, BSB's overall collection ratio was 14.7?. Arrears as a percentage of loans
outstanding as of December 31, 1989, were 232 for project subloans compared to
49? for BSB as a whole. By number, all the 25 subloans are in arrears.
Subprojects subjected to prior review by IDA have not fared much better: their
FY89 collection ratio is 21I while the arrears level is 25?. Poor collection
ratios and high arrears are an indication of poor credit discipline and
unsatisfactory operating performance of the firms. The dismal collection
performance of project subloans demonstrate tnat the project had a negative
financial impact on the institution. (BSB maintains that the commercial and
financial results of the project were largely beyond its control and the control
of its subborrowers. BSE also maintain that IDA was ineffective in anticipating
and responding to these results. See BSB's comments oa. paras 6.01 and 6.05 in
Part II.)
6.06      Hard data are not available, but subloan portfolio performance
indicators are a clear sign that the investmants are performing poorly. Their
impact on the real sectors of the economy--industrial value added, exports,
employment--is in all likelihood limited. Rough estimaLes suggest that only
around 4,000 additional jobs, compared to appraisal estimates of 13,500, were
created because fewer subprojects were financed and the average cost per job
created was much higher than anticipated. The cost per job was around Tk351,000
compared to the appraisal estimate of Tkl8,000 showing that most of the projects
were capital intensive.
6.07      Institution Building.  The project was designed to strengthen BSb's
appraisal standards to improve its future lending, improve BSB's existing
portfolio through the establishment of performancs targets and strengthen inter-
bank coordination on lending. These efforts were intended to establish an
efficient, financially viable DFI.  These objectives were not realized as
discussed below:
(i)   While there was some tightening of appraisal standards as s result of
the Economic Advisor's work, the impact has been marginal. Subloan
apiraisals, then and now, continue to be mechanistic with limited focus
on experience and quality of management, product markets, etc.
(ii) Similarly, while BSB undertook some strengthening and reorganization of
its end-use department, portfolio monitoring and supervision remair
weak. Review of subloan files by the PCR mission suggest that there is
very little subproject monitoring after funds are disbursed.
(iii) The objectives of developing an integrated monitoring and control
system for legal instruments and improving inter-bank coordination to



-6-
reduce the arrears on terui loans within the banking system were not
effectively carried out.
Limited success at institution building, coupled with poor financial performance
(as discussed below), has precluded BSB from becoming efficient and financially
viable. (BSB rejects these conclusions in its detailed observations in Part II.)
7. Project Sustainability
7.01       The sustainability of this project, and the institution itself, is
closely linked with BSB's arrears and collection ratios. So long as BSB
continues to finance subprojects that eventually run into arrears and
uncollectible loans, its ability to finance new subprojects will be severely
curtailed. Moreover, its credibility as an effective financial institution will
remain open to question. A review of BSB's financial performance during FY80-
FY89 points to its precarious financial situation:
(i)   In FY80, BSB had achieved a "high" but still inadequate collection
ratio of around 42Z, compared to 25Z-30Z during FY76-FY79. From 39Z in
FY81, the ratio declined to 18% in FY83 and has since been 122 to 152
(Tab'e 6). While cash collections during FY81-FY83 were 761 of targets
established at appreisal, the targets were far lower than current
amounts due. Being unable to collect even half of the current dues,
BSB's artears kept on accumulating so that by June 30, 1989, about 89Z
by amount and number of its outstanding portfolio became infee.ted by
arrears. About 47Z of the arrears are overdue by more than two years
and 222 by between one and two years (Table 8).
(ii)  At current collection levels, BSB is not even collecting the new
interest falling due. At these rates, BSB will never be able to
collect its outstanding loans, and arrears will keep on mounting
absolutely as well as on a percentage basis.
(iii) Inappropriate accounting policies masked BSB's real performance. Thus,
over the last ten years BSB reported interest income in its accounts of
Tk.4.2 billion, whereas the actual interest collections amounted to
Tk.2.3 billion or 54Z of the reported income. The difference of Tk.l.9
billion, representing uncollected interest income accumulated in its
books, was 127Z of the total operating profit during this period. If
BSB had recognised as income only the interest it actually received,
its financial statements would have shown a cumulative (FY80-FY89)
operating loss of about Tk.0.4 billion instead of a cumulative
operating profit of Tk.1.5 billion, thus wiping off 40% of its paid-up
capital.
(iv)  Despite its acute portfolio problem, BSB was able to avoid a liquidity
crisis by defaulting on its liabilities to GOB (its primary lender) and
by generous conversion of debt to equity by GOB.
(v)   BSB's lending rates remain insufficient to give it a positive spread.
Although it is currently charging 14.5% on all loans it has to suspend
50% of its interest income because it is accrned on bad and doubtful
debts. That leaves it with an average interest income of 7.3Z which is



not even sufficient to cover its average interest expense of 9Z.
Taking out another 2Z in administrative costs leaves BSB with a
negative net margin of 3.7Z from its long-term lending orerations. To
provide for its bad and doubtful debts BSB has to charge more than 8Z
as annual provisions expense which worsens the net margin to a negative
12Z. These rough estimates suggest that BSB's onlending rate should be
26.51 just to break even. If BSB is forced by competitive pressures to
charge market rates which are bound to be less, it would incur losses
unless it dramatically improves collection performance. Therefore,
BSB's long term prospects for achieving viability appear questionable
at best.
7.02       Post-Project Efforts to Turn BSB Around.  In 1985, the GOB/BSB
initiated a reform program to turn BSB around.  The major elements of this
program, developed with the assistance of ADB, IDA and KfW, were: (i) changes in
BSB's Charter to increase its autonomy, enlarge private sector representation on
its Board, and allow GOB to sell 49Z of its shares to the private sector;
(li) changes in management; (iii) initiation of an aggressive collection drive,
including publication of names of large defaulters and seizure of defaulters'
projects for sale; (iv) increasing cumulative provisions to more than 40Z of
loans outstanding; (v) restructuring liabilities, including conversion of some
long-term loans to equity; (vi) a large TA program in 1989 to strengthen various
institutional aspects; and (vii) undertaking an aggressive arrears reduction
campaign (outright forced auction of defaulting companies, and negotiated
settlement involving a combination of partial write-offs and rescheduling linked
with cash downpayment of some arrears). It is BSB's intention to "clean up" its
entire overdue portfolio by June 30, 1990.
7.03      These efforts are producing some beneficial results.  The portfolio
cleaning up, overdue for almost a decade, is in the right direction. Overall,
however, the impact has been limited; (a) BSB's new lending since 1985 has been
no better, in terms of both collections and arrears, than the past; (b) debtor
pressures led to the changes in BSB's Managing Directors who were seen as too
tough; (c) collection ratios are still low; (d) it appears that significant
"cleaning up" is being accomplished by partial write-off of interest and
rescheduling loans without adequate analysis of borrower's ability to meet the
new schedule; (e) the public has shown little interest in purchasing assets from
defaulters; out of the 340 companies put up for auction between FY88-FY90, only
11 could be sold. Investors appear unwilling to bid for problem firms; (f) the
recent interest rate reform1/ gave BSB an opportunity to adjust its onlending
rates upwards, but it actually reduced them, reflecting an uncommercial attitude.
BSB's rates are lower than those of all other banks, even though, as the major
source of term project finance, it could have charged higher rates without
affecting its competitive position,
Financial sector reforms supported by the Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit approved June 5, 1990, allows banks to set their own interest
rates within given bands, as of January 1990.



-8-
8. IDA Performance
8.01      IDA's infcrmal suspens.ion of the Credit to stem the tide of arrears
proved very useful in highlighting the problem's magnitude. This was made
possible by close IDA monitoring of BSB's collection targets. However, project
financial and investment performance remained generally deficient. IDA failed to
develop ar agreed action plan of policy/procedural reforms with GOB to address
the weaknesses in BSB's operations and to have any impact on the overall
financial environment. The magnitude of the bad debt losses indicates that the
projecc essentially failed to address the lending environment and tochnical
banking matters including lender's risk, loan pricing, and loan accounting.
Because these issues were not addressed, BSB lost money on subprojects under the
project, as or, its other operations. The equally poor performance of "prior
review" subprojects suggests that IDA can only minimize the risk of financing bad
subprojects but cannot eliminate it altogether.
8.02      Supervision Effort.  IDA supervision of the project was satisfactory,
Between 1981 and 1985 nine supervision missions visited BSB and held discussions
with GOB as also with ADB and KfW on BSB's performance. These missions kept
close track of BSB's overall performance and especially its collections,
cautioned both the Bank and GOB about the continually deteriorating conditions
and suggested some remedial acticns. When BSB's collections did not improve the
mission recommended suspension of the Credit which was accepted by the Bank and
the other eonors. BSB maintains in its detailed observations in Part II that IDA
supervision was ineffective in addressing critical problems adversely affecting
project performance.
8 0~   Lessons Learned.  The project neither met nor came close to meeting its
objectives. Important lessons have been learned from the failure, and from IDA's
monitoring the performance of BSB and the banking system in general, over the
last decade.
8.04      (i)  Importance of the Credit Environment:  BSB's dismal portfolio
performance reinforces the importance of having a supportive credit environment
for sound banking. In the absence of much needed reforms, the financial sector
was gradually deteriorating along with BSB. Industrial expansion was being
sought at the cost of financial discipline. Rapid credit expansion without
regard to credit-worthiness led to poor debt recovery in all public sector
financial institutions. This was further compounded by the inadequate legal
framework for debt recovery and ineffective debt recovery efforts. In this
environment it was unrealistic to attempt to build a cordon-sanitaire around BSB.
In retrospect, it is clear that the Second BSB Project should not have been
undertaken prior to ensuring that the credit environment and GOB's attitude with
respect to BSB's commercial objectives were conducive to sound banking.
8.05      (ii)  Improving Performance of Public Enterprises:  A lesson to be
learned from this project and other IDA projects dealing with public enterprises
is that mere financial and/or institutional restructuring of publicly owned
entities -- whether banks or other types of organizations -- is unlikely to
succeed unless a real breakthrough is made in GOB's attitudes about the specific
organization and the way the public entities operate in general. Thus, any
intervention is likely to fail unless there is strong commitment at the political



and senior bureaucratic levels to improve the performance of public sector
entities and unless the following measures are taken:
(a)   reduction in excessive, misdirected controls and intervention by
government and in the use of government entities as vehicles for non-
commercial operations;
(b)   strengthening management and provision of full autonomy to managers,
concomitant with establishment of effective management accountability,
and a compensation package for managers based on performance;
(c)   implementation of effective loan recovery laws; and
(d)   establishment of a competitive environment.
8.06      It is difficult to determine when and whether to initiate a project in
circumstances in which project success depends on turning around a public
enterprise with a poor track record. A sharp increase in BSB's collections in
FY80 was mistakenly taken as a sign of permanent turnaround, presumably an
important factor in deciding to proceed with the project. Experience under this
project demonstrates that sustained good performance should be required before
starting a project involving a poorly performing public enterprise. Thus, BSB's
performance should have been observed for another two to three years before
proceeding with this project.
8.07      (iii)  Ensuring Sound Lending in a Competitive Environment:  In the
mid-1970s BSB began facing competitive pressures from the NCBs when they
initiated term lending to the SSI sector. These competitive pressures were
accentuated with the advent of private banking in the early 1980s, which took
away the "blue chip" market. While the need for competitive markets is
undeniable, competition in 'lending' is very different from competition in
selling goods. 'Too much' competition can lead to imprudent lending in an
environment where disbursement levels are emphasized, debt recovery efforts are
not supported, professionalism has declined, institutions do r3t have primarily
commercial objectives, penalties for poor lending are non-existent, government-
owned institutions dominate the financial sector, and both staff and borrowers
perceive loans are viewed as 'government money' not to be repaid. While it is
difficult to judge what level of such competition is potentially harmful, it is
crucial to ensure that a market is not generated and an institutional framework
established in which too much money is chasing too few good
projects/entrepreneurs. For publicly-owned financial institutions, this aspect
is of even greater significance: experience shows that the government ultimately
has to absorb the losses from poor lending.
8.08      A related issue is the need to develop effective mechanisms (e.g.,
interbank information sharing, good sector studies, etc.) to minimize the risk of
over-investment by the bank or the borrower. While there are many causes for the
lackluster performance of Bangladesh's industrial sector, tremendous over-
investment in the late 70s and early 80s in certain subsectors and the poor
performance of these projects have had a dampening effect on new investment.
Capacity utilization in many subsectors remains below 50Z, often because of over-
investment. Institutional rigidities which preclude exit of failed enterprises,
mobility of labor and capital, and poorly functioning capital and financial
markets, inhibit the movement of resources out of these subsectors to correct for
over-investment. Increasing external indebtedness to finance under-utilized



- 10 -
capital is clearly undesirable and, therefore, institutional mechanisms should be
put in place to avoid financing excessive investment.
8.09       (iv)  Institutional Reform:  Over the past two decades numerous
institutional reform efforts have been undertaken. These provide two important
lessons. First, institutional reforms are slow since they involve changing
fundamental behavior and formal/informal relationships established over a long
period of time, and, second, unless there is commitment to excellence and reform
from within, outside intervention will have limited success.
8.10      (v)  Arrears Reduction Programs:  The inability of BSB (and of many
other financial institutions) to improve collections confirms that collecting bad
loans is a very difficult task. At one stage, BSB mounted a public campaign by
announcing names of large defaulters; it was envisaged that public pressure and
defaulters' desire to avoid being classified as an "unethical businessman and
criminalw would motivate borrowers to pay. Unfortunately, the impact was limited
as borrowers did not perceive defaulting as unethical. The very limited success
of the effort to auction foreclosed properties also came as a surprise. In
retrospect, it seems that investors prefer new investment rather than taking over
a problem project. This behavior could be partly explained by the fact that most
investors are owner/managers and taking on a sick project requires more effort
than a new project. Collecting through the courts has also not been very
successful. Even if the courts ruled in favor of creditors, taking over the
assets and disposing of them proved problematic. In many cases the assets were
worthless because the machines were too specialized and/or poorly maintained.
Thus, the main lesson is that pragmatism and conservatism are necessary in
formulating collection strategies and arrears reduction programs. The
conventional wisdom based on experience in developed financial/business systems
may often not be applicable in nascent financial systems with weak institutional
and legal foundations.
8.11       (vi)  Encouraging Investment in Less Developed Areas:  The performance
of subprojects in less developed areas has been generally poor. Set up in less
developed areas, to take advantage of the lower duties on imported machineries,
they tend to run far below capacity because of communication problems with its
markets in developed areas. This suggests that using fiscal incentives to
encourage investment in lesser developed regions of the country is unlikely to
succeed unless infrastructure such as dependable power supply and inexpensive but
speedy transportation and telecommunication systems are first developed.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01      GOB performance was at times detrimental to the success of the project.
Despite repeated requests by IDA to provide BSB with greater autonomy in its
regular operdtions, no actions or efforts were initiated in thir regard. BSB's
debt recovery efforts were hampered by the lax GOB attitudes tc ard willful
defaulters. Influencing BSB's credit decisions by other than economic
considerations led to the approval of non-viable loans which later turned sick.
Subsectoral targeting for investment purposes led to over capacity in GOB
preferred subsectors.
9.02      BSB's performance was, at best, mixed.  During project p,.eparation and
appraisal it was good, with BSB cooperating effectively in providing technical



- 11 -
and financial information. During project implementation, and especially after
the informal suspension of the Credit, both GOB and BSB cooperated fully in
meeting the conditions for lifting the suspension.
9.03      An important deficiency in BSB's performance was the quality of subloan
appraisals and subborrower selection. Appraisals were done mechanistically
without paying adequate attention to marketing, product quality and pricing,
technology, ability to compete with imports, excess subsectoral capacity, and
risk assessment. Another important shortcoming in the appraisals was the
inadequate focus on the track record and background of borrowers, their ability
to implement and manage subprojects, and their knowledge and experience with
subproject technology and product marketing. (BSB's detailed observations in
Part II on this point, raised earlier in para 6.07, are that it followed
prescribed procedures and utilized technical assistance. BSB also observes that
IDA reviewed and approved 60Z of the subprojects.)
10. Project Relationship
10.01     The relationship between GOB and IDA was generally satisfactory.
Although some tensions developed before and during the informal suspension of the
credit, misunderstandings were quickly removed, and GOB cooperated fully in
meeting the conditions required to lift the suspension.   Coordination with ADB
and KfW, which also provided funds to BSB, was excellent in this project. All
three lending agencies remained in close contact and carried out discussions
leading to the unanimous decision to suspend the Credit informally. There was a
consensus among the donors on the design and scope of the institutional
strengthening program initiated in 1987 (para 7.02).
11. Consulting Services
11.01     The Industrial Economic Consultant appointed by BSB in March 1983 left
the job in July 1984 for better prospects. He completed three model sub-sectoral
studies and 11 model profiles, besides improving the appraisal standards. His
subsectoral studies are used as guidelines by both BSB and investors. The short
duration of his stay, however, limited the impact of his work.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01     Most loan covenants were complied with in letter but not in spirit.
Although the covenant relating to the half-yearly review by GOB of BSB's
collection performance was complied with, effective steps were not taken to
improve performance despite repeated failures to reach the targets. Moreover,
the public sector overdues were not fully adjusted as agreed in the DCA.
12.02     BSB's MIS has improved but is still deficient in important areas.
During PCR preparation, major problems were encountered in obtaining repayment
data on individual subloans. Data on disbursement are kept in one place, while
data on amounts falling due, repayments and overdues are maintained on separate
cards. There is no routine central record showing all the pertinent data
relating to disbursements, amounts falling due, repayments, unpaid balances, and
amounts not due for each subproject. Parallel records that often disagree are
kept by different parts of the institution.



- 12 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
*  2SE'P t I       iinin;tr of F;nco
s.vamwn..t of t%o People,'s R.pubh of uIodmoAb
Prom : M. Kamaluddix n                 Maw __
Deputy Secretary.
ERD/IDA-/Ind-6/85/(Vol-IV)/Oc               _e_t_ r_li  1990_ .
Dear Mr. Willoughby,
Second Shilpa Bank Projeot (Credit No.
1117-BD) : Project Completion Report.
Please refer to the letter dated July 6, 1990
from Mr. J.lexander Nowicki Division Onief,(Policy
based lending, Industry, Public Utilities and Urbam
Sector4.,on the above subject. We are forwarding here-
with the comments of Bangladesh Shilpa Bank on the
Draft Project Completion Report.
2.       You are kindly req4eeted to arrange it's
despatch to the concerned division of IDA Head Quarters,
Wa shington.
With regards,
Yours all e1eYP
(M. Kanaluddin
Mr. Christopher R. Willoughby,
Chief of Mission
World Bank Resident Mission in Bangladesh,
3A, Paribagh, DIi&ka.



- 13 -
BEAR=-&1    SEJA BANK
2nd Ban I desh 1.3ilps. Bnnle nsoJet
PAR    Ile PR03MT  RWOR   naI    E
BD(IER' 8B(3) PEM=ln.
1.0   The Projewto
The IDA aetended an amount of MO 50.00 miLlion to GOD under
the DCA execmted on Maroh 31, 1981,  The proceeds of the credit were
relent to S8O uder the Project Agrewneit siged bebwaeen IDA  and
6on the .se day ,nd the E7A  exeoated betreen. OB md 1f3B on
Ame 15, 1981. The terms of credit, mont others, provided for a
repayment period of 50 yers, includ.inr a  erace period of 10 yeeri.
The aredit was made effeative from Aungut 12, 1981 Ad closod on
October 31, 1986. The credit was however, kept suponded by IDn for
the Period      Ostober 12, 1982 to Febroaz7 10, 1983.
2.0   Project bac!gomd &W it. objectives:
BB3 wms supposed to orrry nuit tho prmjeot onnd         tfs I
operations in accordance with itn chnrtor end its Operatinr Policies
and the Operating ftratey Bttatemert8. The purpose of the proleot,
mong other.t was to assist in the economic and social dovelo3ment
of to Gountry. The projeot consisted of s-
a)  rinancing specific Indtstrinl projects by grnntin' loeans
for wjhich U.'% 409.75 ml rd1on (ePtlqnivnt ru3P. 3n.n9 ri?ilio!)
was eanzarkedg  nd
b)  Fisnaning of a Tebhnical Assistace Pzgoprme for sutgth-
"4n"  f8Y, Institiont.7 eapabilities for hich US 0.25
mioni (equivalent to SDR 0.21 mflion) war exnsrked.
).Or ProJoet Icmplenetr.tian w onitlorn
B6  sent 57 sub-loan proposals to 1DA for wittMirRwol rrthori-
cation (under free - 3imit ad above free- limit) under this credit,
of wbich 37 loan-easc'z were tnpprovd. Out of these 31 sub-projects,
howver 30 cases were actually financed under the credit.



- 14 -
3.1   Geatora2 oan1 distribution of the oreditt
The" was a  high enoentratien of in"esrtent in four  mcb-
peotae namely, Paper, Paper produats and Printing, Food end allied
produts, Textiles  .. Jute s alled industw ea  whioh aoeonmted
for 846 of the disEttfsed fud.ds  rhe bslance 14fY went to the  i'ih-
Bectoro of Chemicalo en'i Thrxmv^ceiiticalse  T,n-enetrllic   n
Products, Metal Produotas Petra - Chensorls tnrd 11rircell.mnenis indus-
tries. R.gionall2y, Zhak8a 1d Mnhlna division  received about 76% of
the f4od for 21 sub-prolo,ts, while Chittagong and ajS2IhSh divisiono
received 24% of the f%md for 9 sub-projets. About 91% of the fund
was utiliaed for 27 Lew sub-proleats and 9% for 3 eR  rub-proJeate.
3.2   Credit suslpension  td  itn
ofreot upo eub-borrowers t
As stated earlier nLi put an embargo on utilieation of the
faid f    Ootor '12, 1982 cm the plea of poor recovery perfozrmane
of BSB oiih was, however, liftod on Pebry 10, 1983. The projeet
was closed on Ostober 31, 198e  nfter mx montho' extension of utili-
mation period. Durinr, t:he perioA. of r .r4o, sroncors of mnn%r proj^otm
which were ollooated forei;  currencny under the cr-ecit loot telir
interest In their projeotn due to price- hike of mhhinery. It may
further be mentioned that m= 'mb-loan cases forwarded to the It
for approval took abnomally long period   4gt g from 120 to 275
"   inspite of repeated requests by B8/GC. This longer apprval
period also caused dol7 im implementat.on of the atb-projoetn with
resultant cost over-nmr  and siol'm'se of the pro,,lecto.
3.3   Reasons for slow-utilization of the fundt
1) Credit under consideration wam made amilable to BS3 at a
time when the eooc2  of BSEgladesh was pausing through a
phase of reeonstruetion/rehebilitation after liberation.
There were vory fcn.r eetreprenmtra hprv   r-pr%,e#o In teh^
industrial field. As a mreult tnere  were few lonn p3?ropostmli
suitable enough for finoncing untder' the credit;
2), Credit vas kept ua"pended by IDA, frm October, 1982 to
79b'az74 1983. Ths  resated di   ointment enong the
sponeore who were nppro'ed loans under t'he oredit tLnd
lost interert Sx ire-ir,*inr thlleir r-niatnt
3)  In mar  cases IDA mode iimcual delny in aprovinrc ?Vtth-
drva al terisation;



- 15 -
4)  In some cases the flitb-borrovers tfiled to complete the post
sanotion formalitiAs for rvtd1inr, of the loptn rund mobiliuo
required equity capital which delavred opening of L/s and
implementation of the proJect.
3.4   Operatiodal &apsa;ent Performe2os of the
a^ib,ro.etU finanoed.under the eredit-
Operational perfnmmancP of nrOit SNy of the implemented nub-
proJeots was hirh3r eatiefactorr reeording onpncify utilisti.on
ranging from 60% - 90% of their rnted capacite, while other sub-
proJects could hot adhieve the desired level of production.
Rowever, overall repalment p.rforsmuie of the sub-projeotc
fingneed under the credit vras more or lese satisfactorz7i Of the total,
5 sub-projeets have neanwhile liquidrtted their loan liabilities, two
cARes  rebeing proeesned for lidilrit1.on r'nd le ub-pro1ects ern  mnking,
very good psyment. The Bank having court's decree in its favoiir has
sold one sub-project and oersonal guarantee of the directors of the
ooaparT are being invoked for realization of the balance dues. Loan
accounts of 4 sub.projests have been restruetured/resoheduled.
Repaement of 7 Sub-projacts are not satsffattorr while 3 sub-proJects
were stuck-up during implementntion stape and/or in operationtl stage.
Necessary steps are being undnrtankpn for rehabilitation of the Ftuck-
up sub-projects.
3,5   Measures adopted by  EBB to
habilitate the siek proaAectst
In order to semure imooth and timely im'plementation of sanctioned
sub-proJects as per pln and proRr.nmIet phasioaesl 5innections Nre e.or-
ducted by the bank during the i'ple'mentation stng. to (a) help dotreee
deviation from the  mplementqticn/construotion progroes# (b) extend
technical advise whe   neeessary to safeguard the mutual interest,
post-implementation follow-up actions were .180 intensified. The bank
personnel$ undertake quarterly visits (or "s frequently as neaessary)
to project sites for clone and effective monitoring. Inspections are
carried out on halfyear.l1 baris of the n'th-prol1netR wh'ich Ari Sin
operation to ascertain their physical conditions (inclulding mnintennne"
of projeat assets), opermtional and financial status. These were
designed mainlT to assess #ottal physleal and financial eondition of
the siek/problem sub-roJects l or either rehabilitation or for deoid-
ing on selling out the mortgaged assets to recover bank's loans, as
mrl be the .ase.
4,    T,A.  funds i
Vith a view to upgrading appraisal standard, sub-seotoral
st-ddies aed identifidAtion of new are" for potential investment in
private sector, an Industrial Feonomic Consultant was appointed by-



- 16 -
o In flrmh 10, 1983 an per the project         mt  eeb mted betwe.
I6A god BSB. The oonoultant,howr-ver, work3cd for at out 16 months
(left BSB in July, 191"). The cn'nailtant'n  :uidolines/etuidies were
followed by MM3. It was also felt thnt tho TA allocation wee net
sufficient. Efforts qguld have been made for h)ghoer training of usoe
BS3B preofuionul utaff.
4.1   Bo Opzating PolUSY
MMSB devises its Orntirr PoNliey rpd f trnte7r Strt9ewtent for
each financial year. PS% PBoard of .Trreotors approves the Orerating
Polioy and sends it to the vsrious donor/loan iving agencies
including ID. BaB Board of Directors reviews the Operating Policy
fro  time to time giving due eonsideration to the smgestions/
reeeommndationa given by the donor agencie*s.
4.2   Institutional Dev#,loznent:
In order to strenthen TS's overall operntional performanoes,
it was agreed in 1983 between the GCfl ADB IDA  JPW and UT1P that a
conprehnBeive ingtitutional review of both B83 and B8f8 (B.nugladesh
8hllpa SRn Sanugtha) wmild  be neoesosry. In this regard on Institu-
tional Review and Portfolio Audit (IRPA) - was carried out which
identified specifie solutionu to the problems fteed by P8B end 3BRS.
A top level neeting attrmnded by the GMfl, AMD, IDA,  W rind UTDT end.
the oansaltants was held in February, 1985. The meeting arrived at
aL M!U* in whiAh it was agreed that an Action Progra5 (A.P) woulld be
fo"rmlated towards restz,oturing BfB and BS. rowever, it was agred.
that the restrastured BSB would rmnain as the prime term ledg
institution of the cormtry.
4.3   UTDP's 2nd rhrise TAPs
Pole restructuring BS8B/BsI), the 2nd. TA Project titled "Assistane
to BS3 end BSE" funded by UNDP was under-taken end to thin effeot a
PECODOC wa  sign   in Miaka In Jarmary, 1988 among ADB, UNDP end GB,
The AIB vas appointed as the executing agene. To imolement the
projet,t 11/.. Nathan An.ociAt"o (1TA) W nhington P.C. Ihns ben  nple
ted b.ADP. T!he pro,1ect ia cm n4nco Aiir,nt 21, 10.
The objeotives of the TA nre to s-
(i)  strengthen the institutional framework of PSB end PSRB
br bdpraving the enpacity of both the institutions in
projeot supervision, personnel management, loan accounting,
A2flgheent infotrnttion systems end camRiterisati.cm in addi-
tion to ipr.rva P"TI 5,n the aren of nro,1eet nrr-'1innle ?y'nd
staff trnining-



0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 17 -
(ii) formulate and impleertr aomprehensive, but quick-
7ieldingq portfolio rehabilitation progrz  for the
problUm proj"ets of both the institutioneg an
(iii) impoe the expertise of flI staft through long-.term!
fellow-ship depTee courses in seleoted institutions end
short-term on-the-job trainingr in portfolio rehebilita-
tion in mature and. efficient DFIs in the region.
Ml vlew of the foregoing, it may not obe exagerated to state
that the EBS's perforrnnce i  in pleenmng thh swib-pro6eats  end
recovery is more or less satisfnotorye The Bf1  Order, 1972 hvs also
been manded to provide flexibility ad mitonoem  which has helped
fow tekig expSdtiuI d*4iisiin   r th  Danko It is expc"ted that on
auesesei eanplstion e  th*  MAi tmder implamentationt MmB's opera.
tional performsmeO  will improve  AS fuoh, thO B39B is now tuoh more
capable end st  ger to utilise loan of Foreign loan Giving Agencies
then be6r..
b~~~~~~~~~~q



IDA's Coruents                                              BSB's Observations
4.01(i) There was a widespread perception amongst BSB        4.01(i) BSE hanagement/and or staff have never shown such Dercep-
staff and borrowers that repayment of loans was not very   tion that loan recovery was less import-nt. BSB study team also
important and that political pressures could be put on       did not indicate any such perception in the past.Further, each
ESS not to enforce recoviry.The inadequacies of the debt   sub-loan case was sent to IDE for their approval (withdrawal autho-
recovery system which supported this situationcould have   risation). The allegation is not tenable.
been addressed more vigorously.Thus the co mercial,poli-   The main reasons for inadeouate debt recovery is primarily due to
ticel and administrative reality in which BSB was opera-  huge increase in indeb-tedness for substantial exchange rate
ting was not Sufwiciently recognised in the project,and    fluctuation, increased interest liabilities due to increased time-
it was implicitl1 but incorrectly assumed that the poor    over-run in project implementation, loss of market/market compe-
performance ir thet past was almost entirely due to          titiveness, inexperienced entrepreneurship, working capital fund
inedequacies w.thin BSB.                                     shortage, technical know-how problem etc. alongwith frequent
natural disasters and not for so-called perceptions among --SB
staff.
L.O1(jj) In designing the pro4ect,6greater  ttention          4.01(ii) Though the absorbin  capacity of the nascent entrepreneur
should have been paid to the iow absorptive capacity of    class was lower due to historical reasons, there was however an
the nascent entrepreneurial Class,the lack of mecha-         urgent need for rarid industrialisation and as such,theasite o         f
_zs=s for providinr good quclity credit information on       the. project seemec to have been approprirtely designed excepting   X
e2tsting and potential investors,and market intelligence   the size of the TA Programne for extending services to BEB vhich
on sectoral investment. The pro4ect should have provided   was highly inadequate.
more TA (e.g.seminars and technical advice-to the pro-
ject sponsors and TA for the development of credit and
market intelligence system) to deal with these insti-
tutional problems.
4.O1(iii) Between FY 76 - FT 80, loan approvals increa-    4.01(iii) In view of the need for rapid industrialization through
sed almost 100C p.a. While such rapid growth was expec-    private sector, IDA's Project objectives were well designed
ted,given the suppressed investment climate in the early   thougb BSB's recovery performance was not upto the expect.t-on due
70's,there was need to critically examine wbether should   to various reasons mostly beyond it's control.
lending could have baken place at such high growth rates,
particularly considering BSB's institutional weaknesses.
It is now clear that the majority of loans made during
this era have become bad.



IDA's Comments                                                 BSB's Observations
4.0O1(iv)          ..4.01(iv) The accounting policy followed by BSB is as per fccepted
the apparent profitability indicated by BSB's accounts         commercial accounting practice and did not mask unsustainable
waB accepted vithout question. 6in$la%r, BSB'B ability         financial position. however, poor industrial performance was caused
to continue to be profitable with such high arrears was        due to various unavoidable factors. It may be mentioned th5t in
nto coestinued.Hdaciia                 horogh arrars B as      terms of the UJNDP Project Document No.BGDt73/047/A/01/42, aated
not questioned. Had a critical and thorougb analysis           100_17  BSB was provided with an Accounting Advisor to improve
been conducted (as was done later during supervision)          10the  flowwof  i  rm vioad  vise a  setiof  Ac niso  pocidure
it would have been clear'that the apparent profitability       the flow Or  information  and devise a set of accounting procedures.
was more a result of inappropriate accounting policies         Adviordigw,hoondte IDAappinte  lir.h Si977. Rose  isa  Acowenr,fonog
than of good  performance. These  policies masked  an    in g            who joing       B in     h, B      B     s b   v
unsustainable financial position and the fact that the         inug thoz~e accounting guide-lines developed by Mir. S. Rose. Asa such,
spreads of around 5.5% then available to BEB (Para 7.01)       the comment on accounting principles adopted by ESB does not stand
vwre totally inadequate to support the poor quality of         valid.
its portfolio.
5.01  Being a follow-up project,- it started on time.          5.01  ffective utilisation of the credit was not solely dependent
Bowever, inplementation was not satisfactory. Due to           upon BSB; rather to a great extent upon the eagerness of the
continuing deterioration in BSB'a collection perfornance,   prospective sponsors. The other reasons for low utilisetion of
the Credit was informally suspended from October, 1982         the credit may also be attributed to the following
to February, 1983. The project closed in October, 1986,
after a six mouth extension to allow for disbursement of       (i)   IDA suspended utilisation Of the credit on 12-10-82. The
already committed funds.                                       suspension was,thowever, witbdrawa on 10-02-83. This causedp
considerable dislocation in utilisation of the credit;
(ii) Sub-loan cases for both free-limit and above free-limit
had to be sent to TDA for withdrawal authorisation/approval
which took much time. IDA's inordinate delay in approv ng/rejec-
ting projects after submission was no less responsible for low
~ -    utilisation of the credit. An analysis of the time taken by IDA
is given below '
- For 9 sub-loan projects time taken by the IDA according
their approval was between 120 - 275 deys.
- More than 30 sub-loan projects recommended by BSB were not
approved by IDA at all.
(iii) In many cases sponsors had failed to complete the post-
sanction formalities in time for availing of the loan as per the
terms and conditions of sanction letter.



IDAhs Comments                                                        BSB's Observations
6.01   The project objectives were largely iunmet. First,      6.01  The project objectives of 'uller utilizaticn of the credit/
less than 50% of the Credit amount was disbursed,and the       slower utilisation Of the credit is attributed to the delay byIDA
obJectivre Of espanding the private sector's role in           and  sponsors as explairw,6ince the entire IDA Fund utilised by
industrial investment was only partially realized.Second,    BSB was relent sIi  to the p.:e- secter enterpreneurs it can not
as moted below,the actual performance of the subprojects       be said that the Private-Secter'B role in industrial investment
bas been unsatisfactory,limiting their Impact on indus-        was only partially realized. Arrears were  caused due to various
trial growth,value added, and emplhyment.Pinally, the          problems that could be redressed by BSB only throuEh appropriate
objective of establishing an efficient and financially         rescheduling/restructuring/rehabilitation of sick projectL if
viable DFI remains to be realized.                             timely advice and assistance could be extended by the IDA/donor
-                                                          agencies, such measures would have made BSB an efficient and a
financialf viable institution.
6.02   Subloan Component. XIhile the lending pattern met      6hf   Oaut of 30 sub-projects, 7 projects have been liquidated,
thc reglonal distribution objectives and also financed         7 projects are sick (due to technical, marketing & financial
,xport oriented subprojects,half the subprojects are          problem ard inadecuate working capital) and 16 projects are in
operating at a loss or not operating at all. Of tne 30         oDeration.
mubprojecta financed, at the time of PCR preDaration                                                                                  0
(end-1989) 26 were in conmercia) o-ez-ation,tlree were
conpleted but not in commercial operation,and one was
in the pre-operating stage. (bly  5 subprojects,represent-
ing 58% of the subprojects in commercial operation,were
operating at a profit while 11 subprojects were opera-               -
ting at a loss.
6.05  . .    .  .the    6.05                                                   pe -- 's--forinnce of subprojects were due to marketing
collection ratio and arears for project  subloans are          -  -cr:  ,  in-adequate working capital, lack of
unsatisf actory . . . . . . .                                             kvc_ w-how and other various reasons as expleined in
preceding  paragraphs, which could not be foreseen by BSB as
well as by the IDA. flost of these causes were also beyond the
control of BSB a?id the sponsors.



IlsB Comments                                                          BSB's Observations
5.07 ( i ) VTile there was sone tiEhtening of eppraisal        6.07 (i) Economic advisor's suggested appraisal standards which
standards as E result of the Economic Advisor's work,          were of course in line vith the UNIDO ?iannual of appraisfe  as
the impact has been marginal. Subloan appraisals, then         adopted by IDA but may not be termed as "mecbanistic". The
and now, continue tobe mechanistic with limited focus          appraisal standards were also adjusted/modified in line w_th the
on experience and quality of management, product               suggestions given by the IDA while approving the sub-loans.
markets, etc.                                                  'TueI   i  reality, the appraisal standard could not be achieved Bs
Pbor performance of the sub-projects led to the poor recovery
or insufficient realization of overdues by BSB from its financed
projects. However, unsatisfactory operation of the sub-projects
were due to so many factors including fall in the export market
etc. As such, BSB's appreisal standards may not be held responsible
and termed as "Mechanistic".
The BSB's onganisationel strength wes improved earlier as per
advice of the Advisors provided under different TA. The tendency of
the donors to view the organisation end its strength as weak due to
poor recovery : s not tenable as the same may be attributed to the
poor performance of the sub-projects for various reasons beyond
control of BSB.
6.07(ii) Similarly, while BSE undertook some strength-         6.07(ii) Unsatisfactory performance of the sub-projects vere not
ening and reorganization of its end-use department,            due to weak supervision monitoring by BSB. It was due to erport
portfolio monitoring and supervision remain weak.Review        marketin, problem, lack of tec'inical know how, shortage of rorking
of subloan files by the PCR mission suggest that there         capital fund time overrun, cost over-run, weak management,pov-er
is very little sub-project monitoring after funds are          shortage, etc.
disbursed.
6.07(iii) The objectives of developing an integrated           6.07(iii) The legal instrument & inter Bank coordination system
monitoring and control system for legal instruments and        were properly introduced but the situation could not be improved
improving inter-bank coordination to reduce the arrears        due to unsatisfactory performance of the industries. But for
on term loans within the banking system were not effec-        making the system effective the Controlling Bank (i.e.Bangladesh
tively carried out.                                            Bank) is monitoring the system.



IDA's Conments                                                BSB's Obser7ations
7. Project SustainabAility
7.01  The sustainability of this project,and the institu-    ?.01 For the present situation of BEE the burden of responsibi-
tion itself,is closely linked with EsMs arrears and             lity can not be fixed solely on BSB. This responsibility also
collection ratios.So long as BSB continues to finance           lies with the entreprenuers,Govern-ent policy,donor agencies,etc.
e'ubprojects that eventually run into arrears and unco-         The comment should be modified with a remark that sucb arrears
llectible loans,its ability to finance new subprojects          and collection can be improved if BSB & Donor agencies together
will be severely curtailedJioreover, its credibility as         take appropriate timely steps for rescheduling/restructuring/
an effective financial institution will remain open to          rehabilitation of sick projects.At present BSB finances sub-
question. A review of BSB's financial performance during        projects with utmost caution and expects that the projects will
PT 80 - FT 89 points to its precarious financial situation:  be implemented on schedule and will not ran in arrears. Insti-
tutionally BSB is now more capable to take adequate measures
for timely implementation end monitoring of its financed
projects. However, factors responsible for cost over-run due
to exchange fluctuations etc.resulting in increase in liability
of the sub-projects make it difficult for debt-servicing.
However, Exchange fluctuation,fiscal anomalies etc.still remain
an unfavourable dragon. Since the donors have appointed   an
internationally reputed consultant,further appropriate recources
are beinG tak:en by ESB for remedial measures of the situation so
that in future there remains no doubt about the efficiency of
tie institution.
(i)  In YF  80, BSB had achieved a "hiFh" but still in-         Ci)  The arrear situation has been aggravated as large number
adequate collection ratio of around 429, compared to 2%-30% of BSB-financed projects have fallen sick. For redressing the
during PT 76-PT 79. Prom 39% in 7Y  81  the ratio declined    sickness of the projects even the donors have not come forward
to 18% in FY 83 and has since been 12i  to 15% (Table-6).       with any appropriate measures for rehabilitation of the pick
While cash collectici  during FT 81- Fl 83 were 76% of          projects which,however, of late is being taken care of by BSB
targets established at appraisal,the targets were far           with its meagre resources, following various mechanisms adopted
lower than current amounts due,Beiag unable to collect          by similar DFIs in the recion.
even half of the - current dues,BSB a s-rears kept on
accumulating so that by June 30, 1989,about 89% by
amount and number or its outstanding portfolio became
infected by arrears.lbout 47% of the arrears are over-
due by more than two years and 22% by between one and
two years (Table-8).
(ii) At current collection levels, BSB is not even              (ii)  The arrears are expected to fall substantially with the
collecting the new interest falling due.At these rates,         improvement of the performence of the sub-projects after
ESE will never be able to collect its outstanding loans,        rehabilitet-on/restrurctu-ing/rescheduling.
and arrears will keep on mounting absolutely as well 86
on a percentage babls.



IDU's Comments                                                    BSB's Observations
(iii) In appropriate accounting policies masked BSB's        (iii) Though BSB has been following accounting policies based on con-
real performance.Thus over the last ten years BSB            ventional merchantile accounting system adequate provision (46% of the
reported interest income in its accounts of Tk.4.2            outstanding as on 30-6-1989 for covering bad & doubtful debts. As
bilion, whereas the actual interest collections               such, it can not be concluded that BSB's reel performance has been
amounted to Tk.2.3 billion or 54% of the reoorted            masked.
income.The difference of TkA1.9 billion, representing
uncollected interest income accumulated - in its              (iv) BSB had been meeting its debt service liability regularly.It bas
books, was 127X of the total operating profit during          recently requsted for rescheduling only to meet its investment require-
thiB period. If BSB had recognised as income only the        ment out of its own resources in the absence of funding by donor
interest it actually received its financial state-            agencies.
mentB would have shown a cumulative(Pr 80-FT 89)
operating loss of about Tk.0.4 billion instead of a           (v)  The on lending rates were fixed at the prevailing rates but bad
cuwp oltive operating profit Oc Tk. 1,5 billion,thus         debt provision has been made at a very high rate. In future BSB
wiping off 4cr% Of its paid-up capital.                       expects to borrow at substantially lower rates aB wall as improve
collection rates after rescheduling, restructuring and rehabilitation
of sick projects and close monitoring of projectsbotb under implementa-
tion and in operation. LS such, t,here should not be any question on
the   viability of BSB.                      -
7.02 Post-pro.ject efforts to turn BSB around:
(i)  The charter has been amended by increasing the autonomy,enlarging
private sector representation in the loard (at present 4 in number),
providing sale of 49% share to the private sector individuals an well
as international financial institutions.
tii) The management has been changed by the GOB in line with its
policies.
(iii) BSB has initiated an agressive collection drive and put a large
number of defaulting projects on sale by publishing in the national
dailies. Detailed year wise position for the last three years are
furnished below:- ^
frojects sued  Sale Notice   Auction done   Cases settled
in Courts       served           (sold)        Outside Courts.
1987-88      32            116              1                 58
1988-89       7            105              6                 70
1989-90       -    I       216              8                 54
To make this sale system more effective BSB has already suggestedan
arrangement for sales on deferred. payment similar to disinvestment
program of GOB.



IDA's Comments                                                         DSB's Observation.
(iv) The provision has been in. '-ased to 46% upto 30-6-1989.
(v)  *The actions are continuing.
(vi)  The TL programme is on and is expected to achieve the desired
goals.
(vii) Appropriate measures have been taken for arrear reduction by out-
right forced auction of defaulting companies and negotiated settlement
involving combination of partial write off and rescheduling linKed with
cash down payment of some arrears.Last 3 years' position is given below:-
98788   1988-8         1989-90
Sold project                            1 -        6            8
Liquidated projects through            49         59           83
interest .waiv!r
Rephasement/Rescheduling               45         49           61
Restructuring                           -          -            1
GOB and BSB have, therefore,been complying w!ith the conditions of the
MOU and other advice of the donors in full spirit. The acquiescence that
the portfolio, clearing up is in right direction is appreciable.
7.03 (a) BSB's new lending and- collection-rates showed an increasing
trer.d as given belowt  4-
(Tk.in million)
Period        Sanction                Disbursement       Collection.
1986-87       Tk.754                      279                659
1987-88       Tk.520                      309                667
1988-89       Tk.120,,                    468                736
(c)  Collection ratios will improve after restructuring/rescheduling/
rehabilitation etc. of the projects.
-I;



IDA's Comments                                                    ESB's Observations
(d) The so-called 'cleaning up" process as incorporated in sub-
para 7.oe as per MoM is bing accomplished by partial write off
of interest in case of one time settlement of the total liabi-
lities and rescheduling of loan after proper reappraisal of sub-
projecta' 7iability including cash flow and debt servicing capa-
biAity of individual projects. Once rescheduling/rehabilitation
is completed appropriately end on time, repayment is expected
as per new schedule.The comment seems to have been made without
any case studs by the donor agency.
(e) Public have shown little interest in purclhase of defaulting
projects but as an effect of these sale notices, a large number
of sub-loans have been cleared either by full redemption or by
rescheduling/restructuring with partial down payment.ovwever,in
order to attract new investors for such projects sale rules
have proposed to be modified with provisions for deferred
payment as well.
(f) AB a national DFI, BSB has so far kept -he rate of interest
at aCceptable level in- order to encourage the investors in
setting up of industries.
8. IDA Perfonmance
8.01  IDA's informal suspension of the Credit to stem the tide    8.01  As result of suspension of credit GOB & IDA agreed on an
of arrears proved very useful in highlighting the problem's           action plen which resulted in appointment of Price Water House
magnitude.This was made possible by close ID; monitoring of           for IRPL, a MOU containing, among others :-                            I
BSB's collection targets.however,project financial and invest-    (a) Amendnents in the Orders of BSB and BSES to enhance their
ment performance remained generally deficient. IDA failed to  -managerial and operational auonomy and legal powers and to
develop an agreed action plan of policy/procedural reforms            manageriaa     pertionlatonomy and legapower  an  to
with GOB to address the weaknesses in BSB's operations and to provide prBvate participation in their share capital as well
have any impact on the overall financial environment.The
magnitude of the bad debt losses indicates that the project
essentialiy falied to address the lending environment and tech-   (b)  Recelculation of provisions for bad debts of BSB and
nical banking matters including lender's risk,loan pricing,and    BSRS by independent auditors, reflection of additional provi-
loan accounting.Because these issues were not addressed,BSB           sions in tne DFIs financial statements and necessary recapi-
lost money on subprojects under the project  as on its other          talization of3DFIs as a result of additional bad debt
operations.The equally poor performance of  prior review" sub-    provisions.
projects suggests that IDA can only minimize the risk of
financing bad subprojects but cannot eliminate it altogether.



IDA's Comments                                                BSB's Observations
(c) Improvement in credit discipline through measures such as
publication of names of defaulters,strengthening of the functions
of the Credit Clearing House, intensified legal actions againts
wilful defaulters and strengthening of commercial courts.
(d) Improvement in cash collection performance of BSB and BSRS
satisfactory to the lenders.
GOB/BSB comDlied with the requirements of the MOU by amending the
charter of BSB,making adequate provision for loan loss,adjustment
or debt service liability and conversion in equity and restruc-
turing the orgenogram of the Bank for upgrading appraisal standard,
close monitoring of projects botb under implementation and in
operation and rehabilitation of sick projects,deposit mobilisation
and working capital financing and also measures for facilitating
sales of defaulting projects.
In the meantime,under Second Technical Assirtance Programme 2 Consul-
ting Firm has been appointed which is still continuing their func-
tion.Of course,the visible results still remain to be realized as
this requires a minimum time frame.
8.02 5t-ervision Effort.  IDA supervision of -he project           8.02 Though nine supervision missions visited BSB during 1981-85
was satisfactory.Between 1981 and 1985  nine supervision    - it does not appear to be a fact that the missions bad suggested
minsiors visited BSB and held discussions with GOB as              remedial measures for solving problems faced by the BSB/sub-proj-
also with ALB and MF'I on BSB's performence.These missions         ects in the area of incressing liability due to abnorsal exchange
kent close track of BSB's overall performance and especia-         fluctuation, time over-run, delay in implementation,cost-ovcr run
';,y it collections,cautioned both the Bank and GOB about         due to unforencen price hf':e_, inzdequate infrastructural facili-
trae continually deteriorating conditiors and suggested some    ties, deficiency/delay in supply of machinery, nonavailability of/
remedial sctions.When-BSB's collections did not improve the    inadequacy in working Capital, fiscal anomalies and over all
mission recommended nuspension of the Credit which was             nascent entrepreneural class. Consequently, collections could not
accepted by the Bank and the other donors.                         be improved and GOB/BSB had to accept suspension which was imposed
by the IDA and others unilaterally.
8.O3 Lessons Learned. The project neither met nor came             8.03 They seem to have set their objectives of project comner-
close to meeting its objectives.lmportant lessons have been    cially without tiking into account the historical background of
learned from the failure, and from IDA's monitoring the            the country and the existing inadequacies and deficiencies
perforniamce of BSB and the banking system in general,over         mentioned earlier in para 8.02.
.he last decade.



IDA's Comments                                                  BSB's Observations.
8.04 (i)    ortance of the Credit Environment: BSB's dismal    8.04  The credit environment and the banking and financial
portfolio performance reinforces the importance of having a    operations,have been reformed/jnodified/adjusted from time to
supportive credit environment for sound banking.In the           time by the GOB/Financial Institutione.Often at the behest of
.absence of much needed reforms,the financial sector was          the multilateral agencies,which was not unknown to the IDA and
gradnelly deteriorating along with BSB. Industrial expan-        other donors who seem to have failed to diagnose the basis
sion van being sought at the cost of financial discipline.       conceptual problems/issues and suggest measures thereof.
Rapid credit expansion without regard to credit-worthiness
led to Door debt recovery in all public sector financial         For example, they have been professing the need fcr rehabi'ita-
institutions.This waB furtber compounded by the inadequate       tion of sick projects but they have not provided the required
legal framework for debt recovery and ineffective debt           assistance (fund or otherwise) for those projects.Further,wbile
recovery efforts. In this environment it was unrealistic          the credit environment is considered by them to heve deteriora-
to attempt to build a cordon-sanitaire around BSB.In retro-    ted.further,it seems ironical and paradoxical that IDA is going
spect, it is clear that the Second BSB Project should not        to provide substantial credit to Private Commercl a1 Banks
have been undertaken prior to ensuring that the credit            (PCBs) who have no experience on term fianacing at all.
environment and GOP.'s attitude vith respect to BSB's
commercial objectives were conduc ive to-sound banking.
8.05 (ii) lunroving Performance of Public Enterprises._           8.05   The point raised in this paragraph may be looked into
-   - -                      ~~~~~~~by the Government.-
8.0S It is difficult to deternmie when and whether to ini-. 
tiate a project in circumstances in which project success
depemes on tuaning around a public enterprise with a poor         8.06   This has been covered in the foregoing parag-rphs.
track record.
8.08 1 related issue is the need to develop effective            8.08  The Bank has already taken a number of steps in line with
mechanims(e.g.,interbank information sharing,gooi sector         the suggestions.jain steps taken by the Bank are as follows:-
studies,etc.) to minimize the risk of over-investment
by the bank or the borrower. While there are many                (a) Sub-sactocal studies have been carried out on a number of
causes for the lack-luster performance-of Bangladesh's           sub-sectors and as per the findings, some sectors have been
indnssrial sector,tremendous over-investment in the late         declared risky and in some sectors financial assistance are
?Os and early 809 in certain subsectors and the poor per-        extended with due care.
formsnce of these projects have had a dapaning effecton o
new investnent.Capacity utilisation in many subsectors           (b) Projects which are operating at below break-even level and
reAs-' below 50%,often because of over-investment.               have no scope for improvement of operation are sold out in the
InstVtutional rigidities which preclude exit of failed           way of winding up. In cases where projects are not operatiBng
ente--rises,mobility of labor and capital,and poorly             for management inefficiency but otherwise viable management has
func,ioninr  capital and financial markets,inhibit the           been changed.In cases where implementation of the project were
movereit of resources out of these subsectors to correct         delayed/could not operate profitably for the reasons beyond
fo- c!-e--'^vestment.Incressing external indebtedness to      - control but the projects were otherwise good loan have been res-
finznce under-utilised capital is clearly   t ry     E           tructured/rescheduled/rehabilitated as per the need of the
undeEirable and,therefore,institutional mechanisms should        project/viability.



IDA's Comments                                                    BSB's Observatiens.
be p_- ir place to avoid financing excessive investment.    (c) Inter Bank credit inforaition x are being exchanged at the
time of appraisal of the protects before sanctioning loans by BfB
and other Banks also.
(d) loan appraisal procedures have been stream lined- to ensure
timely implementation/investient by the sponsors, deposits are being
taken at various stages of ar?raisalloan documentation.
Besides the Bank officials' views,opinions are also taken from
the committee consisted of experts of different fields of
disciplinq'sectors.
8.10 (v) irrears Reduction Pro amns: The inability of B5B  8.10  BSB, in line with the suggestions, has since started
(and a! maEy other rinancial ins itutions) to improve           taking following actions, in acdition to leal action
collecticas confirms that collecting bad loans is a very
difficult task. At one stage, B5B mounted a public             (a)  Changes of management bv negotiation/sale.
caspism by announcing names of large defaulters; it
was ec isared that public pressure and defaulters'desire       (b)  Rescheduling of overdues %:ith/without Dartial waiver
to eroid being classified as an sunetheical business-          accordina to the prospective cash flow position based on the.
man znf criminal' would motivate borrowers to pay. Un-         past performance.                                       -
fort=ately, the impact was limited as borrowers did not
percEive defanlting as unethical.The very limited success    (c)  Restructuring with or without partial i-aiver,including
of t^e e''ort to auction foredosed properties also came        conversion of debt into eq-_ty based on prospective case flow
as a mrprise. In retrospect, it seems that investors          - position based on past performance.
prefer new investment rather than taking over a problem
projeet. Thts behaviour could be partly explained by the       (d)  MMR-through additional investment & restructuring/
fact that ut4 Investors are owner/managers and taking          rescheduling of existing loans.
on a sick woject requires more effort than a new proJect.
Collecting through the courts has also not been very           All these efforts when completed are expected to result in
successfrl.Even if the courts ruled in favour of creditors.         tion ofars.
t ai  arer the assets and disposing of them proved prob-   reduction of arrears.
lI-ac. x many cases the assets were worthless because
the mechines were too specialised anrd/or poorly main-
tained.ftns,the main lesson is that pragmatism and conser-
vatie  aze necessary in formulatinE collection strategies
and =Earear reduction programs.The conventional wisdom
based cr experience in developed financi&lArusinesA sys-
temE xay often not be applicatle in nascent financial
qystes witl weak institutional and legal foundations.



IDA's Coments                                                     BSBs Observations
9.01 ;CR -:eormance was at times detrimental to the         9.01  BSB has substantial autonomy to deal with lendixnC and
suomss of -.he project.Despite repeated requests by 33A     other improvement Dolicy decision. ESB is now fo]lowing lending
to We,vide !3S  with greater autonomy in its rerular        policies independent of any intervention and Government has not set
opernzlons,mo actions or efforts were initiated in          eny sub-sectoral tarEet.
this remad. BSB's debt recovery efforts were hampered
by the GCE attitueds toward wilful defaulters.Influ-
encixe BSE' s credit decisions by other than economic
con4 dcai-zns led to the approval of non-viable
loarns uic- later turned sick.Subsectoral targeting
for imseetzent purposes led to over capacity in GOB
prefeced r:bsectors.
9.03 An -.:ortant deficiency in 9B's performance            9.03  Appraisal was done in line with the IDA approved a?praisal
was te =9'ity of subloan appraisals and sub-   -            manual. As such, it is not tenable to observe that appreisal was
borrover se*ection.Appraisals were done mechnls-            done"%echanistically" without paying adequate attention to marketing,
tican7r o-qout psying adequate attention to narke-          product quality and pricing, technolo(7,ability to compet'with
to c-of -:t  iuality and pricinn,technology,eaility         imports,excess sub-sectoral capacity end risk asse6nent. For
to         :tc G e  -- h imports,excess sabsectoral capacity,  appraisal of eacb project, among others, all the factors mentioned    '
and risk assessment. Another important shortcoming          above were duly examined although some of these points subsequently
in the atz'eisals was the inadequate focus on the           deviated from assumed situation. It nay be. mentioned th_t more
track re::-  and background of borrowers,their              than 69% of the subprojects were cleared by IDA.
abilT 5-: 4-plement and manage subprojects, and
their k-o..edge and experience with sub-pro,ect
techaosoe ad product marketing.
11. C         Services:                                     11.00 Consulting services:
11 .0  !  industrial Economic Consultant appointed by       The Industrial .Econonic Advisor(IEL) appointed by the EEB prepared
BSB it Ksr=, 1983 left the job in July  1984 for            3 sub-sectoral reports and project profiles on 11 diffe-ent sub-
better- zcsects. He completed three .moael sub-              sectors. In this connection, it may be noted that the Economics
secto--al E.-dies and 11 model Drofiles, besides improving  Deptt. of the Bank used to prepare sectoral study reports and
the ar.  s-  standards. His sutsectoral studies are         projects profiles before appointing the IE; with a viev: to identi-
used d-ines by both BSB and investors.The short             fying the prospective areas of investment and assist the prospec-
dura-4= *' his stay, however, limited the inpact of his   tive berrowers in selecting suitable projects. The methocs/approach
work.                                                       followed by the IEA, however, helped ESB to make more izprovements
in the reports and rrofiles prepared by the bank subsecuently.The
bank has prepared 31 sectoral study reports and 23 project profiles
since August, 1984.



IDA's Comments                                                    BSB's Observations
12.01  Most loan covenants were complied with in letter      12.C1  ESB reviews collection performance on regular baE s by way
but not in spirit.Although the covenant relating to the      of preparation of various periodical statements.Weekly collection
half-yearly review by GOB of BSB's collection performance   report is being prepared for management information on i,ich
was cemplied with,effective steps were not taken to          monthly and quarterly statements are prepared for submission to
improve performance despite repeated failures to reach       international lendinG agencies sucb as World bank,hDB,M-nistry of
the targets. Moreover,the public sector overdues were not   Yinance and Bank's Board of Directors.
fully adjusted as agreed in the DCA.                         Over the last 4/5 years the Bank has taken several steps for
improving collection performance by wey of giving reliefs/
rebates,encouraging good borrowers by way of offering f_nancial
legal measures,taking over of projects, sale through public
auction, management taI:e-over, rehabilitation of sick aid problem
projects and also by wey of vigorous persuasion. As a result,the
Bank's recovery of loans increase4 from Tk.360.00 million in
1985 to 755.00 million in 1969. Public Sector o-verdues accounts
for less than 0.20% . tiajor portion of the, public sector ovex!-es
has been adjusted over the last 3/4 -years. The public Eector
overdues as on 51-03-90 stood at Tk. 6.77 million which is
less than 0.20%F of the total overdues of the Bonk.
12.G2 BSB's MIS has inr--oved-but is still deficient in      12.02  As regards BSE's I-S it may bementioned that the pr:_:-    o
important areas. DurinE PCR preparation,major problems        loan accounting system of the Bank was designed by one         __
were encountered in obtEining repayment date on indi-         Rose, an IN'DP consultant, engaged by TDA. Most of the inforaLtionf
viduzl subloans. Date on disbursement are kept in one         being furnished by the Bank to IDA genarated out of thzt acco-L-
place, while data on amounts falling due,repayments and       ting system. However, under the second TLP now in operazici  the
overdues are maintained on separate cards. There is no        present accounting system of the Bank is under review b- the
routire central record showing all the pertinent .. data -    consultants and it is expected thRt the shortcomings o' the
relating to disbursements, amounts falling due,repayments,  existing accounting system which was recommended by IDL Consul-
unpaid balances, and amounts not due for eachk subproject.   tants as pointed out in the PCR will be taken care of by the
Parallel records that often disagree are kept by differ-    TAP consultants.
ent Darts of the institution.



_ 31 _
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. RELATED BANK LOANS
No.         Credit Title            Purpose          Year of       Status
Approval
632-BD      First Bangledesh        Finance          1976          Completed
Shilpa Bank Project    industrial                     06/83
development
and strengthen
BSB



_ 32 _
Table2. PROJECT TDtETAELI
Name: Second BS3 Project
IDA Credit No.: 1117-BD
Approved           US$50 million  (SDR 40.2 million)
Disbursed         USS20.87 million:
Cancelled          USS29.13 million
Item                            Actual Date
Appraisal                       July/August  1980
HegotiaUions                    February 20, 1981
Staff Appraisal Report          February 23. 1981
President's Report              February 27, 1981
Board Approval                  March 19,    1981
Development Credit Agreement   March 31,    1981
PA between IDA L BS3            March 31,    1981
SLA between GOB & BSB           June 15,      1981
Effective                       August 12,   1981
Credit Suspension               October 12,  1982
Withdrawal of Suspension         February 13, 1983
Original Credit Closing         April 30,    1986
Actual Credit Closing            October 31,  1986



- 33 -
TABLE t. CREDIT DISSUSEMENT
Cumulstivo Estimated and Actual Dieburoaenet
(US1 Million)
.__ .----------------------_----__----_-----------___-_--_-----__-------_--_-__------_-------_-
Bank Fiscal Year
and Quarter                    Appraisal Estimate                             Actual
Qu-t.erly  Cumulotive      I       Quarterly  Cuwulative   I of         I of
Year  Quarter        9isburco.  Dioburae.  Estimated  Diaburge.  Disburso.  Estimate   Total Loan
FYt2  Jul. - Sept.       4.40        4.40        6.60
Oct. - Doe.        4.40        3.80       17.60
Jan. - Mar.        4.80       13.00       27.20       0.08        0.06        0.56        0.16
Apr. - June        4.30       18.40       36.80        1.92       2.00       10.66        4.00
FY83  Jul. - Sept.       4.80       23.20       46.40        3.35        6.86      26.24       11.71
Oct. - Dec.        4.80       28.00      5U.00        4.35       10.21       30.45       20.41
Jan. - War.        4.00       32.00       64.00       3.46       13.66       42.70       27.33
Apr. - June        4.00       36.00       72.00        1.62      11.19       42.19       30.38
FY84  Jul. - Sept.        4.00      40.00       80.00        0.13       15.31       38.29       30.63
Oct. - Doec.       4.00       44.00       68.00       0.06       16.40       36.00       30.80
Jan. - Mor.        2.00       46.00       92.00       0.16       16.66       33.63       31.12
Apr. - Juno        2.00       46.00       96.00        1.21      16.77       34.93       33.53
FY15  Jul. - Sept.        1.00      49.00       90.00        0.90       17.67       36.00       36.34
Oct. - Dec.        1.00       60.00      100.00        0.17      17.84       36.69       36.69
Jsn. - War.                                            1.17       19.01      38.03       38.03
Apr. - June                                            0.28       19.30      36.60       38.60
FY60  Jul. - Sopt.                                           0.34       19.64       39.26       39.28
Oct. - Doc.                                            0.03       19.67      39.35       39.36
Jan. - Mar.                                            0.31       19.98      39.97        39.97
Apr. - June                                            0.00       19.99       39.97       39.97
FY87  Jul. - Seopt.                                          0.47       20.45       40.91       40.91
Oct. - Doc.                                            0.42       20.87       41.74       41.74
TOTAL          60.00       60.00      100.00      20.67       20.87       41.74       41.74
___C___------- - -- =                            __ =5===S=  =======  ===== =-



- 34 -
Table 4: Use of Bank Staff Rosourcos
A. STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
Stages of the Prolect Cycle                       Actual
Through Appraisal                                  57.2
Appraisal through Effectiveness                     13.7
Supervision                                        91.3
Total                                       162.2
B. MISSIONS
Through        Month/   No. of   Days in  Specialization
Appraisal      Year     Persons  Field    Represented
Appraisal       7/80       3       14      Financial Analyst
Supervision   Month/  No. of   Days in  Specialization         a/  b/
Missions       Year     Persons  Field    Represented          Rating  Problems
Mission  1      3/81      1         14     Financial Analyst    2,1   Financial, Managerial
Mission  2      1/82      1          9     Financial Analyst    2,3   Financial, Managerial
Mission  3      6/82      2         16     Financial Analyst    2,3   Financial,Managerial
Mission  4    10/82       1          5     Financial Analyst    3,3   Financial, Managerial
Mission  5      3/83      1         20     Financial Analyst    3,3   Financial, Managerial
Mission  6      5/83      1         10     Economist              3,3   Financial, Managerial
MiFsion  7      8/83      1         10     Financial Analyst    n.a.  n.a.
Mission  8    10/83       1         10     Financial Analyst    3,3   Financial,Managerial
Mission  9      3/85      3         10     Financial Analyst    3,3   Financial,Managerial
Mission 10    10/85       3         10     Financial Analyst    3,3   Financial,Managerial
Mission 11      7/86      2          5     Finahcial Analyst    3,3   Financial,Managerial
a/  1 - Problem free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problpuwa; 3 - Major problems.
b/  1 - Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating.
n.a. - Not available.



- 35 -
Table 5. PROJECT IMPLEMNTATION
Appraisal            Actual                        S of
Indicators           Estimate                                       Achievement
Indicator 1          95Z of the credit   All the subprojects          100Z
will be used on      were in the
private sector       private sector
projects
Indicator 2          302 of the projects 292 of the subprojects   1002
to be located in    were located in less
the less-developed  developed and 362 in
areas                least developed areas
Indicator 3          Generation of         About 4,000                29.62
direct employment   full time jobs were
is projected to be  created
about 13,500 full
time jobs



- 36 _
Table 6. FREE LIMIT SUBPROJECTS
(In Millions of SDR)
Numbers of                Amount
Subprojects      z        Disbursed          z
A - Above free limit          18          60        18.04            93
B - Below free limit          12          40         1.37             7
TOTAL                30         100        19.41           100
Note: The free limit is below US$300,000.00



-37 -
TA&E 7
COLL.WTIO  Porwc1m                                     (YAKA PN NtLLION)
P.r FY omdidA  June 30               lWO       IW      IWI       166       1W'      it"       12 6       oo7      0114     1666
Aga      Actual Aete    Acua    Acua    Actul   Agmo    Ae1e    Ast,1    As*t k, ^, al X-
,--------------------------------------------   .,,,, ...............__.__...... _._...... __
Appars on I .Jyy                      343      37        43M       716      116"    1616       1I        2673      22I      2476
P,;Ae;*eI                         I61      176       1         301      4Wa       667       62       1064     1167      I1S6
In terest                        12        201       a"       416       S6          6 1164 i         is"      1764       3310
Curren t     .N Duign  te Yea,        431       44.      670        W0      604       10"      1174      171s      1S4       1540
Princial                          137      164       21       S36       34        410       SW        677       mg       713
tfttort                          2^174     261       401       621       o        672       674      lo        a"       027
T.1.1 0I. fee Col lei;on              774       a2       123      17        102        76      am        AM        426 *     S
Principal                        &3        360       417       so   r 5?         107       1s6       1761      1621      167
Inte'sa                          416       432       61        o62      1,21     1621      273       26w2     260       313
Cash Collectieo                       327       31       341       26        3,40      26        417      6441      667       ,3
Prini pal                                   141      14        IM       S1         31 U81212                    233       367
Interest                         161       176       200      I16        16       137       24C       409       26       26
Sd'y                                                                                          i6       44       126        73
70       52        63       124       116      142       S16                2"0        SW
1S       21        25        35       36         7       &111      36        122      260
Imte est                          54        31        36        62        77       SS       35        454       167       436
A..e... e. 30 J.ne                    377       433      716      1166      1616      21W       2673     2681      3476      3862
176      1W        301       463      647       6r       1o"4      1167      1136      1023
201      253       416       65         49      1269    1i6"       1764      2140      2462
CZs CoI l*ct:e_/Totml D*e fo, Co lection
P. nea                           '3 21    39.2%    30.2       1M.1      1.61    12.11       2.411   11.71    13.61    1. 51
l't.-et                         A   St    36.11    30.21    17.61    13.61    14.61    11.S         I5 .6     11.4%      9.41
P-t C P.C'  ..  :.t.-..t         42 21    38.61    30.41    18.21    16.41    13. n     11.7         13.06    13.31    14.71



38
Table S. Aging of Arrears
(Take in Millions)
---------_-------------------------_----------------------------__-----------__-------------------------------
1986               1998                1967                1999                1959
No, of Months           Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount      X       Amount      U       Amount      %
0 - 3.0              316        14       403        is      429         16      484         14      463        12
3.1 - 6.0             1S0         S       246         9       176         6       206         6       169         5
6.1 - 12.0            368        17       500        19       494        17       642        la       510       14
12.1 - 24.0            663        26       674        21       623        21       576        17       921        22
Above 24 months            791        36       961        36      1229        42      1668        48      1703        47
2199       100      2673       100     2951        100     3476        100     3866        100
Arrears against:
Principal                  999        41      1094        41      1187        40      1336        38      1326        36
Interest/Charges          1299        69      1689        69      1764        6o      2140        62      2329        64
Total                     2196       100      2673       100      2951       100      3476       100      3656       100
Amounts Due               2706                3672                4386                4296                6016
Val. of Infec. Port.    5171                  5663                6913                6092                e6e8
Val. of Total Port.       5674                6107                6414                7004                7468
Arrears as:
X of Amounts Due          81.2%               74.6%               67.31%              80.9X               72.9s
- of Infocted Port.       42.65               47.2X               49.9X               69.3%               54.7%
% of Total Port.          38.71               43.6%               46.0x               49.6%               48.91



- 39 -
Table 9. ANALYSIS OF ARREARS
(As of June 30, 1989)
Under         .   under    Total
Litigation   Litigation
Projects in Arrears                   233             411       644
Total No. of Projects                 233             489       722
Z in Arrears                          100            84.0       89.2
kmount in Arrea-s
(Taka in Millions)
Principal in Arrears                  483              843      1326
Total Principal outstanding           732             4407      5139
Principal affected by arrears          66             19.1      25.8
Total amount in arrears               1508             2147     3655
Total amount outstanding              1757             5711      7468
Z of c.;tstanding in arrears          85.8             37.6     48.9
Va  affected portfolio          1757            4929      6686
Tcal :ortfclio                       1757             5711      7468
:   .. : affected by arrears      100             86.3      89.5



- 40 -
TABLE 10. COLLECTION RATIOS AND ARREARS ON
IDA FINANCED SUSPROJECTS
(TAKA IN MILLIONS)
I    COLLECTION RATIOS       I      AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1989
AS  OF           |  TOTAL        TOTAL   ARREARS ASI
No  NAME OF SU8PROJECT                  106/30/87 06/30/88 06/30/89  WOUTSTANDINGS  ARREARS   X OF O/S I
I                            I                                  I
1.  DAULATPUR LEAF TOBACCO IND. LTD.  I   0.001    2.61X   5.70X1   32694.60   23741.66           72.62X1
2.  MARSU LTD.                          |  21.091   19.70X  65.10%1          0.00       0.00       0.00o1
3.  NEW UTTARA                          I   2.24X   11.42X   19.101I  19292.83  12661.04          66.11X1
4.  8IZYAKERS FREEZING COMPLEX LTD.   I  2C.02X   26.061   31.06%1    3007.70    1468.66          47.17%1
6.  BENGAL JUTEX LTD.                   I   0.00X    O.00X    0.0011   1701C.83    5407.46        31.6651
6.  WEIGHTS A MEASURES                  I   0.001    O.01X    0.01%1   34445.3C   26149.61        76.92%1
7.  SONALI AASH INDUSTRIES LTD.         1  29.665   36.760   66.801X   19233.82   19233.82    100.001
8.  ISLAM JUTE MILLS LTD.               I 100.00  100.00  100.00%1    1089.99        321.42     29.49%1
9.  SEAFS (BANGLADESH) LTD.             I   O.OOX   16.70X   30.63XI  76400.85   17829.44         23.65%1
10. BANGLADESH SOLVENT OILS LTD.        I   0.00    2.34X    0.98X6  147439.03          9.81      0.01%1
11. PATUAKHALI JUTE MILLS LTD.          I   0.001    0.0OX    0.011   30488.97   13816.77        46.31%1
12. ALIYA KNITT;NG CO. LTD.             I   0.00    6.211   19.67X1   39636.50   21027.09        63.06%1
13. NOVEL GARMENTS LTD.                 I  12.686   46.20X   68.66XI         0.00        0.00      0.001
14. SAVAR TEXTILES LTD.                 I   8.101    0.001   37.61X1   27067.78        865.41      3.20%1
15. TRIMAR A MARLINZ LTD.               I   0.001   23.191   68.43x1   74870.96   10999.91        14.69X1
18. JAMUNA TEXTILES LTD.                I   0.001    9.97X   12.4651   40788.19    8472.26        20.77X1
17. RAHIM BHAI A CO. LTD.               I   0.001    0.001    0.0011    9631.23    6000.71        83.94%1
18. SURMA PACKACES LTD.                 I   0.001   14.09X    3.1401   13172.92   10416.77         79.0e%8
19. PAPER CONVERTING A PACKAGING LTD. I   0.001   29.801   26.97X1           0.00        0.00      0.00%1
20. SONALI PAPER & BOARD MILLS. LTD.  I   0.001    0.001   34.69%1   23131.38   18627.69           81.39X1
21. PROTIVA PRINTERS LTD.               I   0.001    3.791   14.1651    8283.20    6207.01         62.86%1
22. HOSSAIN PULP A PAPER MILLS LTD.   I   O.OOX    0.001    0.00%1  243976.44   17619.69            7.22%1
23. ALCO PHARMA LTD.                    I   0.001   97.391    0.00%1    9634.17        159.82       1.6U%1
24. BANGLADESH CHE6ICAL INDUSTRIES LTDI    0.001   22.61%    O.0OX   67969.47   19893.60          34.32%1
26. TAJMA CERAMIC INDUSTRIES LTD.       I  84.91X  100.OOX   97.87%1   19607.61    4074.64         20.89X1
26. C.Q.BALLPEN INDUSTRIES LTD.         1  97.43X  100.001   67.9651    6031.37    3621.09         69.98%1
27. FARIDPUR TEXTILE INDUSTRIES LTD.  I    N/A         N/A       N/A I  64824.08    8623.11        16.73%1
28. ITTEFAQ GROUP OF PUBLICATIONS       I    N/A       N/A       N/A I    7434.96      261.87       3.39X1
29. CHORASAL CONTAINERS LTD.            I  43.41X   41.82X   76.8651          0.00       0.00       0.00%1
30. AHAD JUTE MILLS LTD.                I    N/A      0.001   76.13%1         0.00       0.00       0.001
AGGREGATE                           I   4.87X   10.74X   17.79X1 1016113.23  268487.16         25.4681



- 41 -
TABLE  11    TIME  & COST OVERRUNS OF IDA SUBPROJECTS
--------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------
Time/Cost  Overruns                     No.  of                         Z
Subprojects
Time Overruns:
3-6 months                                2                              7
6-12 months                               8                            27
12-24 months                            12                             41
24-36 months                              5                            16
Over  36 months                           3                            10
Total                           30                           100
Cost Overruns
______________
0 - 5X                                    9                            30
5 - 102                                   4                            13
10 - 20Z                                  3                            10
20 - 30?                                  3                             10
30 - 502                                  6                             20
50  - 752                                 3                             10
75 - 100Z                                 2                              7
Total                           30                            100
- - -  _- -_                 - -_-_ _ -_ _ -
---- -  ----   ---- -   ----   -----    ----  -----    ----   -----    ----   ----



- 42 -
Table 12. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF IDA SUBPROJECTS
Division      TOTAL           DEVELOPED       LESS DEVELOPED LEAST DEVELOPED
No.  2          No.  S          No.        I          No.        2
Dhaka   14   48.38       9.   81.82      3          44.44      2          18.18
Ctg.     6   19.36       2    18.18      -             -       4          36.36
Rajshahi 5   16.13       -      -        1          11.12      4          36.36
Khulna   5   16.13       -      -        4          44.44      1           9.10
Total   30   100S        11   100S       8          1001       11         1002
Area            No. of Projects                  Z of Total
Developed             11                           36.7
Less Developed         8                           26.6
Least Developed       11                           36.7
Total                 30                           1002



- 43 -
Table 13. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Covenant             Subiet                   Status
PA 2.09      BSB Shall employ an expert    In Compliance
in Industrial Economics for   Industrial Economist appointed by
at least 2 years                BSB in March 1983.
PA 3.04      Debt equity ratio of BSB         In Compliance
not to exceed 3:1               Debt equity ratio has remained
within 3:1 since FY83
PA 3.05      Debt service coverage not        Partial Compliance
to fall below 1.2:1             DSC fell below 1.2:1 during FY83-
FY86.
DCA           GOB to increase BSB's           Partial Compliance
3.04(a)       equity to offset any            GOB increased BSB's equity from
liabilities of BSB's            TkI100 million in FY80 to Tk.1,020
predecessors                    million in FY87. However, some
liabilities of BSB's predecessor
still remains.
DCA 3.06      GOB to review BSB's             In Compliance
collection performance
every 6 months until Jan
1985
DCA 3.07      GOB to improve investment       Partial Compliance
approval procedures             Dialogue continuing under proposed
Isc-II
DCA 3.08      GOB to offset the past due    Partial Compliance
obligations of public           Past due obligations of public
sector enterprises against    sector enterprises now amount to
BSB's liabilities to GOB        less than 5Z of total loans
outstanding
DCA 3.11      GOB to ensure that no loans   In Compliance
are made to enterprises
which are in arrears



- 44-
TARA! 14
6M.A   H 54LPA a14(
SALAMiCS 5.WS                                             CTM'A IN MILLIOG)
P1' PY end Ag JuAe 30             1940      1941    _,1902      1963      19o"      191       1to"      1967      1966      1969
Actual   Actwal   Actual   Actual   Act,ual   ACt..al   Actual   ActumI    Actual   Aetual
Cash                     ~~        ~~~2  2   2         3         3         2         4         6         1         3
CUr1.%.n  AcCounkS              162        As        79        74       170        76       107      109        at       SOS
Dopes;%&t                       253       224       140       321      408       723       a"4       963    1,273    1,671
Total L;i  As&416                         270       221       397       576      602       967    1,076    1. 3.4    2,260
IvnA.QGAenA,a                   156       159       137       162      162        39        29        32        30        52
0roaa Loan Por'tfolio         2.062    2,653    3,506    4.501    5,127    5,676    6.246    6.527    7,166             7.669
Loei: Pro.ionoe A lwau.    (166)         (229)    (314)    (511)    (763)    (676)  (1.511)  (2, 455)  (3,069)  (3.44.3)
met Loanas Outtanding         1,69      2.426    6,194    3.969    4,364    5,197    4.734    4.072    4.097    4. I6S
Other. Aa.eta                    la       139       195       199       569       M6O       750       601       609       919
TOYAL ASSETS                     2.533A    2,99S    3,767    4,747    5,693    6,626    6.461    S.963    6,291    7.416
Liabilitis. and Eau;ty
Curre~nt Liabilities             14       200       226       205       479       612       606       956       932    1.120
Nob,ilaed Deposit.
0.aanid 0....;t.               9'       137       17        271       261       11a       146       306       366       607
Tape. Oepoait,a               499       469       511       490       664       913    1,008        569       603    1,040
Total Depositsa               593       606       6a6       761       94.     1,032    1,151        675       991    1.690
Local CW         4AC                    172       319       369    1.163    1,512    1,250    1.169    1. 46          1,549
Foreign Cue...ec7             876     1.079    1,564    1.672    1.460    1.554         1.562    1,271    1,200    1,323
Total Borroweings             922     1,251    1.63       2,261    2.643    3.066    2.631    2,439    2,664    2,692
Special Punda and Pr..on        661       496       519       522       567       384       336       340       326       273
Total Lasbiliti.a             2.190    2,514    3.316    3.749    4.433    5.294    5,148    4,612    4.916    5,974
Equ.  ty
Paid-U. Caftstl                 100       150       310       750    1,000    1.000    1,000    1,020    1.020    1,020
Cavatal Rater,..s               I50       206         6         9         9        49        49        67        67        67
Special Raege-9                  26        36        4t        54        64        64        64        64        67        96
Coen.al Roper,*n                 67        so        s0       ISS       166       200       200       200       202       260
Total Equity                    344       442       4.50      999    1.260      133 1,333  m        1,371    1.375      1,443
TOTAL LIAaILrTrES A EQU.JIT      2.,534    2,995    3.767    4,747    5,693    6,626    6,481    5.983    6,291    7,416
RtATIO AN4ALYSIS
Curr.ent Ratio                3079.31   1335.31   97.01   193 91   120.61    96.71   119.71   112.51   145.53   201.9S
Debt/Ecuity Ratio              267.61   263. 2    4 16 91   226434  209.83   230.03   212.53    176.05    194.01   200353
pr~o..  Swa../Cr.oam, Loame      9.01      .663      6. 9     11 43    14. 911    11.53    24.23    37.63    42.61    45.43
0,'owth of Total Asset.*         N/A      16.23    263.       26.01    19,91      16.43    -2.23       .7.71      5.23    17.91



-45 -
TASLA 18
BANC.Aoa4 SILPA L6M4
DC0M  rTAT9D1?                                      (TAKA IN MILLL4)
F.,r P  eandig June 30               1940      1941      192       lo94      1o"4      198       1o"       1967      196       1969
Actual   Actual   Actuel    Actwel   Actual   Aetual   Ac utl   Aetueg   44MeB1   Aq ual
........................................................................................................................
ZICONI
Interest A 09r.lsgs
LAccl & Poreip  Cure. Loon         IS        25        a0        21U       261       $47       39        29        210      1t2
Penalty Interest                     26        21        34        67       138       199       199       171        U        14
Qth*r Ch9oeag                         14       17         s        aS        to        21        So        6.        49        so
Total Interest Ieee.                146       284       3S0       866       41        "67       68        80        34        390
interest on Oe4 i-t                   33        36        16        2         42        60        94        9o       137       168
Return en Inweat. A G00  Sec.          16        21        22        15       20        20        19        to        19        35
.................................... .............................................................__
Tote I Inc.".                         248        313       397      43        46        J47       768,        ?       500       610
EX?u
Interest on -
Doeoate a Sorre.w;.ls                143       192      247       26        302       343       43        S06       315       352
Adminietresive EL.s.                  iS        22       32        82        34        89 o               104        90        9o
Total Epenses                        lag      214       279       300       336       422       556       46        405       443
UOeratieg Profit                        r        99       119      133       147       224       199       229        96       166
Loan: Provision. for S.d-debt          20       21         39       37        44        57       199       2'ev       70        75
Profit before Tom                      47        76        6o       96       103      17          0          1       26        93
Le.: Pre.ia;on for Tom                 47        49        30       of        s0       120         0         0         10       S3
NET PRO?rT                              21        29        23        26        23        47         0         0        16        40
APPROPRIATION OF NET PROFIT
Special Rameene                                  6         a        11       10        20                              3         9
Caner I Resore.                                 0                             1        14                   0         2        19
Sejilding Pun                          5         5         4         5                   5
Debenture Redepti orn Fund             2         2         2         r         2         2                             4         4
proosoed Dividend                     14        14         a         9        10                                       8 3       5
O3eer                                  0         0         0         0         0         8                             2         3
21        29        23        26       23         47         0         0        IS        40
RATIO ANALYSIS
Oper. PrefitfTot. tnt. Inc         44.51    31.0%    33.05    34.31    38.85         39.65    30.51       43.21    27.7%    4.3. 0
Pre Tax Profit/Tot. Int. Inc    34.31    30.A           22.31    24.01    24. 9      29.41       0.01      0.11      7.41    23.71
Net Profit/Tot. int. rnc            1OS.    11.4%       6.31      7.31    58.61      6.3        0.01      0.11      4.59    10.31
Net Profit/Emuity                    6.01      6.61      8.05      2.61      I.9       3.83      0.01      0.05      1.17      2.61
Net Proflt/ Totel Aeaots            0.1S       1.01     OASS       0.6       0.41     0.71       o.os      0.01      0.21    OS.
Interest Inc/Creos  Loan.           9.4%      9.61    10.31       6.61      6.11      9.61    10.41       C1S        4.61      5.1S
Interest E.S/Cro.a Loans            6.9       7.21      7.0       6.05      s.5      4621       771        4.7       4.41      4.61
Adain aEp/Cr.e  Loan.               O.7        o.6e      0.91      0.71      0.71      1.01      1.31      1,61      1.3       1. 21



- 46 -
Table 16. ASSISTANCE BY SECTOR & SUBLO&N
(Amounts are in actual SDR)
IDA No.      Industrial Sector/Name    No. of Loans  Amount            Percentage
Disbursed    of Total Disb.
TEXTILES:                      5           4,229,664        21.8Z
A - 2        Aliya Knitting Co. Ltd.,                     582,691
Bogra.
A - 15       Savar Textiles Ltd.,                         591,396
Dhaka.
A - 19       Faridpur Textile Industries                1,479,343
Ltd., Khulna.
A - 25       Jamuna Textiles Ltd.,                      1,567,332
Pabna.
B - 9       Novel Garments Industry Ltd.,                   8,902
Dhaka.
JUTE & ALLIED PRODUCTS:        5           2,328,289         12.0?
A - 10       Sonali Ash Industries Ltd.,                1,379,958
Comilla.
A - 21       Patuakhali Jute Mills Ltd.,                  613,631
Patuakhali.
B - 8        Bengal Jutex Ltd.,                           202,528
Khulna.
B - 11       lslam Jute Mills Ltd.,                       103,384
Tangail.
B - 19      Ahad Jute Mills Ltd.,                           28,787
Jessore.
PAPER & PAPER PRODUCTS:        6           5,695,876         29.3?
A - 5        Sonali Paper & Board Mills                    390,800
Ltd., Dhaka.
A - 8        Paper Converting & Packaging                  399,325
Ltd., Dhaka.
A - 9        Hossain Pulp & Paper Mills                  4,131,154
Ltd., Dhaka.
A - 26       Ittefaq Group of Publications                 397,890
Ltd., Dhaka.
B - 5        Surma Packages Ltd.,                          236,691
Faridpur.
B - 6        Protiva Printers Ltd.,                        140,016
Pabna.



- 47 -
Table 16 (Contd.)
IDA No.     Industrial Sector/Name    No. of Loans  Amount             Percentage
DisbQ,.rsed   of Total Disb.
FOOD AND ALLIED PRODUCTS:    7             4,494,635        23.21
A - 4        Marsu Ltd.,                                  276,803
Comilla.
A - 11       Trimar & Marlinz Ltd.,                     1,861,665
Dhaka.
A - 12       Seafs Ltd.,                                1,876,447
Dhaka.
B - 1       New Uttara Cold Storage Ltd.,                 19,5.18
Rajshahi.
B - 2        Bizmakers Freezing Complex Ltd.,              27,468
Chittagong.
B - 15      Daulatpur Leaf Tcbacco Industries             193,490
Ltd., Kushtia.
B - 18       Bangladesh Solvent Oils Ltd.,                 99,244
Pabna.
MISCELLANEOUS:                 7           2,788,765         13.7Z
A - 1        Tajma Ceramic Industries Ltd.,               883,013
Bogra.
A - 3        Baigladesh Chemical Industries                841,429
Ltd., Dhaka.
A - 7        G.Q. Ball Pen Industries Ltd.,                348,753
Jessore.
A - 18       Alco Pharma Ltd.,                             100,605
Dhaka.
A - 24       Weights & Measures Interna-ional              313,330
Ltd., Noakhali.
B - 7        Rahim Bhai & Company Ltd.,                     65,397
Dnaka.
B - 13       Ghorasal Containers Ltd.,                     107,096
Dhaka.
GRAND TOTAL       SDR  19,408,086        100.OZ



