Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2970-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
February 27, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
On October 16, 1980, GOB adjusted the Taka downwards by 6x. The
Bangladesh Taka is now officially valued at Tk 38.5 to the Pound Sterling.
As the Pound is floating relative to the US Dollar, the Taka-US Dollar rate
is subject to change. The rate below has been used throughout this report
except where otherwise stated.
US$1          -   Tk 16.0
Tk 1          =   US$0.6250
Tk 1 million  -   US$62,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot        -   0.305 meters
1 mile        -   1.609 kilometers
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
ADP      -   Annual Development Program
BB       -   Bangladesh Bank
BJMC     -   Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BMR      -   Balancing, modernization and rehabilitation
BSB      -   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSCIC    -   Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
BSRS     -   Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
DRC      -   Domestic Resource Cost
EPB      -   Export Promotion Bureau
EPF      -   Equity Participation Fund
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
GOB      -   Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -   Investment Corporation of Bangladesh
ICP      -   Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDB      -   Islamic Development Bank
IDBP     -   Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IFIC     -   International Finance and Investment Co., Ltd.
IPC      -   Investment Promotion Corporation
KfW      -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NIT      -   National Investment Trust
NORAD    -   Norwegian Agency for Development
PICIC    -   Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
SCI      -   Small and Cottage Industries
SFYP     -   Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85)
XPL      -   Export Performance License
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) - July 1 - June 30
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB)   - July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:           Small-to-medium size industries, primarily in the
private sector, receiving credit through Bangladesh
Shilpa Bank (BSB).
Amount:                  SDR 40.2 million (US$50 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         About US$49.75 million equivalent of the proceeds of
the credit would be onlent by GOB to BSB at 9% interest
per annum, and an 0.75% commitment fee. 13SB would
relend to sub-borrowers at an annual interest rate
of not less than 14%, and a 1% commitment fee. The
foreign exchange risk would be assumed by the sub-
borrower. The interest rate would be reviewed annually
during the commitment period and adjusted as necessary
to ensure that it remains positive in real terms. The
credit would provide about US$250,000 for staff train-
ing and for an industrial economist to assist BSB for
two years in designing and carrying out subsectoral
studies.
Purpose:                 To expand private investment in non-traditional export
and import-substitution industries, and projects in
less-developed areas, through provision of foreign
exchange for term financing; to continue the insti-
tutional development of BSB, with particular emphasis
on economic and sector review activities; and, to
develop coordinated mechanisms to reduce private
sector arrears on term loans from the banking system.
Estimated IDA
Disbursement:                                 FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                 18.4    17.6    12.0      2.0
Cumulative             18.4    36.0    48.0    50.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             N/A
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No. 3186-BD, dated February 23, 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authiorization.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 40.2 million
(the equivalent of US$50.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Second Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project.  Of this amount, US$49.75 million equiv-
alent would be made available to subborrowers at not less than 14% per annum
interest through the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank; the remaining US$0.25 million
equivalent would finance training and technical services to carry out sub-
sectoral reviews.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Econcmic Situation
and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan (Report No. 3309-BD, dated February
23, 1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged
by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor harvests
in FY72 and FY73 and by devastating floods in 1974.  Foodgrain output fell
drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY76; foodgrain
imports averaging over two million tons per year were required between FY72
and FY75 to maintain foodgrain consumption near minimum requirements. Aggre-
gate output in manufacturing recovered to the pre-independence level only in
FY75, as the sector needed to overcome the destruction and disruption caused
by the struggle for independence and, in its aftermath, the departure of
skilled labor and managers and widespread shortages of spare parits and
crucial inputs. The production of jute, the predominant export commodity,
declined sharply, and the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity almost entirely preoccupied with matters of relief and
rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administrat ion.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the last decade provided planners and policy makers the opportunity to
turn their attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development. It was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence
level, but between FY75 and FY80, it has increased by about 30% in real terms
(or about 5.5% p.a.), despite serious setbacks in agricultural production in
FY77 and again in FY79 and FY80. Output in manufacturing (as measured by the
production index for large and medium-scale industries) rose by about 7.5%



- 2 -
annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place outside the
jute industry. The late 1970s may be seen, therefore, as a period of economic
consolidation. The Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended as an opportunity
to complete this economic consolidation and to reconsider development priori-
ties before the country embarked on its Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).
5.        The last two years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh had been governed under martial law.
In elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were won
by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who
had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty additional seats,
reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was lifted and a
new cabinet appointed.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
6.        Economic growth slowed substantially in FY79 and FY80, but has risen
rapidly in the first half of this year (FY81). Mostly as the result of a
record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output,
GDP had increased by nearly 8% (in real terms) in FY78. But the experience of
FY79 and FY80 again demonstrated the vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy
to unfavorable weather conditions.  A severe and prolonged drought affected
adversely four successive ri6k crops as well as the size and quality of the
FY80 jute crop; this had significant repercussions throughout the economy.
The shortfall in foodgrain supplies led to a rapid rise in rice prices, and
inflation accelerated to an annual rate of about 18% in the first half of
FY80. The rate of growth of GDP fell considerably and inequity in income
distribution increased as lower income groups were affected more severely by
the foodgrain shortages and fast-rising prices than the middle and higher
income groups. The balance of payments, which still had been in overall
surplus in FY79, deteriorated markedly in FY80, mainly as a consequence of
costly food and petroleum purchases. GDP growth in FY79 and FY80 averaged
no more than 4.5% p.a.; with population growth still estimated at about 2.7%
annually, average incomes improved only moderately. In the current year, good
weather and expanded utilization of modern inputs are being reflected in a new
record level of foodgrain production (projected at 15.1 million tons), and GDP
is expected to rise by about 7%.
7.        The disappointing overall performance in FY79 and FY80 somewhat over-
shadowed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy steps during
this period. These included: (i) the successful mobilization and distribu-
tion of nearly 2 million tons of imported foodgrains in the first half of
FY80; (ii) continued rapid growth in wheat production and in fertilizer
consumption; (iii) a variety of policy measures taken to improve agricultural
input availabilities, to maintain incentive output prices for farmers, to
strengthen the administration of the family planning program, and to foster
a more active role by the private sector; (iv) increased capacity utilization



- 3 -
in several industries; (v) improved budgetary performance, reflecting a
strengthened tax administration, some reductions in subsidies and discipline
in curtailing current expenditures; (vi) substantial growth in non-traditional
exports and in workers' remittances; (vii) exchange rate adjustments and other
measures taken to encourage exports; and (viii) the conclusion of a Standby
Arrangement with the IMF. In December 1980, Bangladesh concluded a SDR 800
million EFF with the IMF.
8.        The growth of foodgrain production has become a principal concern of
Bangladesh's political leadership and economic planners. The Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP), which is still in draft form, gives top priority to the expansion
of foodgrain production, aiming at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the end
of the Plan period.  The experience of FY79 and early FY80, when the severe
drought (combined with a major slippage in expected foodgrain imLports) caused
a dangerous erosion of food stocks in the country and required aLn all-out
effort by the administration to avert a major famine, served to highlight the
importance of reducing the threat of crop failures and widespread starvation.
FY80 as a whole was a year in which food production and procurenment were low,
while food imports, offtake from the public distribution system, domestic
foodgrain market prices, the budgetary deficit on the food account, and the
Government's expenditure of its own foreign exchange for commercial purchases
of food were all extremely high. By the autumn of 1980, however, the food-
grain situation had changed to one of relative abundance, and public food-
grain stocks stood at an all-time record level on the eve of an aman harvest
which also promised to reach an all-time high. Already by that time, food-
grain prices had fallen considerably and a principal concern of the Government
was to expand its storage and handling capacities fast enough to permit a
correspondingly record procurement effort. The immediate problem is two-fold;
how to cope, physically and financially with the unexpectedly albundant sup-
plies; and how to achieve a procurement level sufficient to prevent market
prices from falling so far that incentives to future production would be
diminished.                    0
9.        Thus, in contrast to FY80, FY81 promises to be a year in which
production, procurement, and stock levels will be high while food imports
and offtake through the ration system will be relatively low. To a large
extent, the increased production in FY81 has been attributable to favorable
weather, but the Government deserves credit for a large part of the improved
performance attributable to increased investment in irrigation and other
agricultural infrastructure, increased capacity utilization, and improved
input delivery. In the realm of food policy, moreover, significant progress
has been made in reducing the extent of statutory rationing, changing the
ration mix, raising the ration price, expanding procurement facilities,
reducing input subsidies, and in privatizing the distribution of inputs.
The Balance of Payments
10.       The 1979 foodgrain shortage was reflected also in the balance of
payments. The need to finance commercial purchases of foodgrain imports led
the Government to be cautious in the implementation of other irmports which
fell considerably below targets. In FY80 the current account deficit widened



- 4 -
considerably, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price of
foodgrain imports and to price increases for imported crude oil and petroleum
products. At US$250 million, reserves at the end of FY80 were equivalent to
little more than one month's projected FY81 imports. In the current year,
the balance of payments is under severe pressure, notwithstanding the avail-
ability of EFF resources, in large part due to declining jute goods prices,
higher POL prices, and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities. A par-
ticularly crucial determinant of the FY82 balance of payments as well as
budgetary outlook will be the extent of commodity aid availabilities. The
pipeline of commodity aid in particular has been very severely depleted over
the past two years.
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
in FY80 represented less than 6% of GDP and less than one-third of the import
bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute and
jute goods, which together account for approximately 70% of total export
earnings. Exceptionally large food imports in FY80 accounted for 26% of total
imports; this share is expected to fall to about 10% in FY81. Capital goods
imports have risen rapidly in recent years and currently account for over
one-fourth of total imports. Petroleum and petroleum product imports have
increased very slowly in volume since the early 1970's; but their import bill
currently accounts for about 20% of total imports, and is equivalent to about
one-third of export earnings.
12.       The current account de'icit in recent years ($1.5 billion in FY80)
has been considerably smaller than the trade deficit, owing mainly to the
rapid growth of workers' remittances from the Middle East. These receipts are
now the second most important source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded
only by jute goods exports. Significant developments in the capital account
were the US$100 million increase in project aid disbursements in FY79 and
again in FY80, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity.
Total aid disbursements in FY80 were US$1.23 billion, equivalent to 52% of
total merchandise imports. Debt service payments were US$93 million in FY80.
Some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors contributed to a
decline in the debt service ratio from 15.8% in FY79 to about 13% in FY80.
13.       In early FY80, the IMF approved a Standby Arrangement for a period
of one year in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and
including disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations, the
IMF covered about US$60 million of Bangladesh's external financing require-
ments in FY80. In addition, Bangladesh has made extensive use of Fund
resources under the oil and compensatory financing facility. The financial
program agreed under the Standby Arrangement was designed to limit the expan-
sion in overall domestic credit. While the monetary targets embodied in the
financial program had to be revised upwards in midyear, the goals of the
program were largely met. The specific ceilings in the program on credit to
the public sector were exceeded, however, largely because of unanticipated
deficit financing by the Government in the last month of FY80. Under the
current EFF, Bangladesh expects net IMF financing in the current fiscal year
to exceed US$200 million, inclusive of Trust Fund loans and SDR allocations.
14.       The terms of trade remained essentially unchanged in FY80 as rising
export prices for jute goods helped offset the impact of rising petroleum and
other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports increased by about 21%



- 5 -
and imports by over 55% in value; foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone
accounted for over three-quarters of the increase in imports. The FY80
current account deficit was largely covered by disbursements of approximately
US$375 million in food aid, US$400 million in commodity aid and US$470 million
in project aid--total aid disbursements roughly 20% more than in FY79. In
addition, however, reserves were drawn down by some US$150 million.
15.       The FY81 balance of payments situation, as noted above, is precarious.
The terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly
an expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import
prices. At present, the Government faces the difficult prospect of having to
choose between a further reduction in reserves and the containment of imports
to less-than-targeted levels.
Public Finance
16.       Government finances improved considerably in FY79.  However, in
FY80, the budget came under some stress, largely as a result of expenditures
for investments in food stocks and a shortfall in commodity and receipts.
The budgetary situation will continue to remain tight in FY81 for the same
reasons and the growth of development expenditures is likely to be restrained.
Further improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are needed if
the ratio of public investment to GDP is to be raised above the level of
recent years.
17.       The task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving a broadening of the tax base and a strengthening of public sector
business enterprises and utilities as well as a reduction of the major sub-
sidies on food and fertilizer. The latter task has to be carried out with
due regard for both equity and production considerations. Reflecting its
growing awareness of the problem, the Government appointed a Taxation Enquiry
Commission in 1977 and five special committees in 1978 to review various
aspects of public financial resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii)
economic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input
subsidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the
financial performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have
concluded their work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission
was submitted to the Government in April 1979.
18.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups and of the measures suggested by the r.eport of the
Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax administration.
In the course of FY79 and FY80, the Government raised foodgrain ration prices,
several utility rates, and commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises.
Fertilizer prices, for example, were increased by an average of 28% in August
1979 andl a further 24% in November 1980; and petroleum product prices were
raised by up to 45% in November 1979. Issue prices for foodgrains from the
public distribution system were increased in May 1979 and again in May 1980 by
a combined 40%, as the Government began to move toward a gradual elimination
of the foodgrain subsidy. In some cases, these price adjustments only kept up
with inflation, but in others--notably the fertilizer subsidy--they served to



- 6 -
in real terms. Petroleum product prices were raised by a further 45% in
mid-1980--an adjustment which should serve to eliminate the subsidy on this
account during FY81.
19.       The Government is expected to incorporate the essential long-term
recommendations of the various review committees concerning the reduction of
subsidies and the rationalization of the pricing policies of public sector
enterprises and utilities into a comprehensive fiscal strategy paper for the
SFYP period by April 1981. This strategy paper will set out a time-phased
action program for fiscal policy measures and other steps to improve the
mobilization of public sector financial resources for the financing of the
development program embodied in the SFYP.
20.       In FY80, Government revenues increased considerably more than cur-
rent expenditures, resulting in a substantial increase in the current surplus.
This favorable fiscal performance was accompanied, however, by a net erosion
in the financial position of the public enterprises and corporations, by a
very large increase in expenditures to build up food stocks, and by a large
shortfall (from the budgeted amount) in commodity aid receipts. The net
consequence was that a large (31%) increase in development expenditure was
able to be sustained only because the Government undertook unplanned deficit
financing amounting to Tk 3 billion, equivalent to 9% of total Government
expenditure. Although public savings are expected to increase markedly in
the current year, the budget is under severe stress. This is mainly because
of a projected further large increase in expenditures on food stocks, and
shortfalls (relative to budgeted levels) in food as well as commodity aid
receipts. The Government therefore faces the prospect that unless it effects
substantial cuts in targeted development expenditures (projected in the budget
to rise by a further 31% in current prices), it will have to resort to much
larger bank financing than is consistent with established credit ceilings
and monetary policy objectives.
21.       Inflationary pressures, which had re-emerged in FY78 (sparked pri-
marily by excessive liquidity creation by the banking system) continued into
FY79 and gained force in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose
very rapidly. The cost-of-living index for urban consumers rose by 19%
between June 1978 and June 1979, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice
prices; most of this rise occurred in the last months of the year. Rice prices
levelled off in the second half of 1979, and the inflationary pressure eased
considerably during FY80. As of June 1980, the cost-of-living index was about
12% above the June 1979 level, with overall liquidity (money supply plus time
and savings deposits) expanding by some 16% for the year ending June 1980.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
22.       FY79 and FY80 constituted the period of the Two-Year Plan, which
was meant to provide an opportunity for policy reappraisal and for prepara-
tion of the Second Five-Year Plan. In the process of preparing the Plan, its
authors addressed the factors underlying the slow development of the economy
over the past decade. These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation
and flood control, inadequate administrative capacity, low domestic resource



- 7 -
mobilization, and social impediments to change. The planners also analyzed
the problems posed by the basic structural characteristics of the economy: an
environment prone to natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high
rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly skewed distribution of
income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme frag-
mentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural
population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy; high
unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities outside
agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for investment
financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.
23.       The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980) accords
top priority to three major efforts: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in
foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase to
an annual amount of 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of tlhe population
growth rate with a view of bringing the net reproduction rate down to unity by
the year 1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through the vehicle of
free, universal primary education. Enhanced priority is also to be given to
energy development, particularly through exploiting known reserves of natural
gas.
24.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and the available surface and ground-
water would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation; where irrigation is available, the increase
in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice and from
dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth of fer-
tilizer consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past few
years have been among the most notable positive developments in Bangladesh
agriculture and justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future. The Govern-
ment has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Produc-
tion Plan which provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment
of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. 1/ While the feasibility
of this target is beyond doubt, its achievement will be possible only if the
Government demonstrates the determination and capacity to allocate the resour-
ces required to provide the inputs needed by the farmers, and to permit the
private sector to play a substantial role in the provision and servicing of
modern agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are
adequate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved farmer
extension and training, and appropriate farm income and incentive levels.
Without suitable attention to these latter factors, farmers demand for inputs
could soon start to level off.
25.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
1/   The MTFPP target is flexibly set at the 18-20 million tons range, allow-
ing for a 10% shortfall due to adverse weather or other factors beyond
the control of the implementing agencies.



- 8 -
far. Recent projections 1/ indicate that, unless the net reproduction rate
is brought down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population of
Bangladesh, estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, could rise to 143
million by the year 2000. Birth control efforts in Bangladesh have suffered
thus far from poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently
there has been some encouraging progress, however. The coordination of birth
control activities within the Government is improving, while training programs
for field staff have been revised and are now, for the first time, considered
adequate. GOB has decided to prepare a medium term implementation plan for
population and the Bank has agreed to provide technical assistance in prepar-
ing this plan.
26.       Vigorous pursuit of the measures that have been identified to improve
performance should enable GOB to come gradually to grips with the population
problem. It should make it possible to double approximately the number of
acceptors of family planning during the SFYP period (from 14% of couples of
reproductive age in FY79 to 28% by FY85). Officially, the planners aim at
reducing the net reproduction rate to the level of one by 1990, although they
note that, as yet, no other country has succeeded in reducing reproduction at
such a rapid rate. This target is clearly not achievable, but the Government
means to use it to galvanize institutions at all levels as well as the popu-
lation itself into determined action to stabilize the size of the population
as early as possible.
27.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drive for
general literacy.  The planne s recognize that its attainment will take longer
than five years, but they have set themselves the target of introducing uni-
versal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school
age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal
mass education scheme for those already past primary-school age.
28.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills.  Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domestic and the inflow of
foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which project
implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements
can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project imple-
mentation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be
adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector.  It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities
such as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentral-
ized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots
participation. 2/
1/   IBRD projections prepared for the World Development Report 1980.
2/   A full review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the
Bank's 1981 economic report, entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic
Situation and Review of the Second Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated
February 23, 1981).



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
29.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, as of January 31, 1981, 49 new credits have been approved,
totaling US$1,481.7 million; of these, US$665 million have been for program
credits (nine imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits).
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as
of January 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On
June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and two investments (for
a shipbuilding company and an investment promotion company) have been approved.
30.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79 1/, but fell to
about 13% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors. The debt service ratio might exceed 20% by the mid-1980s unless care-
ful debt management policies are pursued and aid is provided on appropriately
concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and disbursed external
public debt amounted to just over US$3 billion as of June 30, 1980, with IDA
credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 25% of the total. In FY80,
the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total debt service payments;
because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service
to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
31.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(15 of the 38 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects
that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities.
In addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being placed upon comple-
mentary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy's overall
performance.  In the power sector, for example, we expect to emphasize rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity or distri-
bution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of existing
industrial capacity.
32.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the nine imnports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from I:wo fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project and several DFC
and small-scale industry projects. IFC is currently in the process of iden-
tifying further suitable investment opportunities.
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.  If workers' remittances
amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export earn-
ings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.



- 10 -
33.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capa-
city. The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and
a second population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
34.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Progress
has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement performance is
improving. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under technical assis-
tance credits to assist in improving planning, project preparation and
implementation capabilities.
35.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order
to direct IDA lending to sectors where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, local currency expenditures also are being financed
in certain priority areas such as agriculture and rural development, including
small-scale and cottage industries.
36.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a dialogue
between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and development
strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of external assis-
tance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group.  Recent activities
have concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization and have been undertaken in the context of the
recent detailed review of the Government's Second Five Year Plan.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR 1/
Growth and Structure
37.       The growth performance of the manufacturing sector 2/ over the past
three years has been mixed. In FY78, as a result of liberalized import poli-
cies and related improvements in capacity utilization through improved raw
material availability, manufacturing output increased by 8.6% in real terms.
In FY79, growth slowed to a rate of 3.5% as industries were affected by short-
ages of raw materials, power failures and industrial unrest. With a con-
tinuation of these problems into FY80, output in real terms grew by only 2%,
1/   For a detailed analysis of the industrial sector, see Report No. 2191-BD,
Bangladesh, Issues and Prospects for Industrial Development, dated
December 5, 1978.
2/   Excludes mining, construction and public utilities.



- 11 -
with the manufacturing sector contributing roughly 8% to GDP. Within the
manufacturing sector, medium and large-scale units contributed about 4% of
GDP and employed about 350,000 people. The balance of GDP contribution and
employment was generated by small scale and cottage industries (SCI). Within
the private sector, SCIs accounted for about 90% of value added and employed
about 4.5 million peope. Notwithstanding the low level of contribution to
GDP, the manufacturing sector is an important element in the Bangladesh
economy. It provides basic consumer goods, supplies agriculture with key
inputs, accounts for over 60% of total exports and employs about 14% of
the total workforce.
38.       As a result of the nationalization of the country's major indus-
tries following independence, most of the large and medium scale enterprises
are in the public sector which consists of about 300 units organized under
the administrative control of seven corporations: jute (the largest export-
ing industry), cotton textiles (a major raw material importing industry),
chemicals/paper, steel and engineering, food, cement, and forestry. The
public sector accounts for over half of the value added in industry, 85% of
manufactured exports and 25% of the industrial workforce. The jute industry
alone employs about 170,000 workers. Although the areas of industrial activity
open to private investment have been expanded considerably (e.g., recently 50
new areas were opened, including the health sub-sector), the public sector
corporations continue to dominate basic industries. In FY80, due in large
part to unusually high export prices for jute goods, the jute industry
accounted for over half of total exports, and over three-quarters of manufac-
tured exports. Cotton textiles, the second largest industry in the country,
accounted for about 15% of value added in the sector, and employed about
76,000 workers, producing about 60% of the country's total yarn requirements.
Production and Capacity Utilization
39.       Despite the poor performance in FY79 and FY80, overall the manufac-
turing sector has recorded a gradual improvement in production, particularly
since FY74, due to the improved availability of raw materials, intermediate
goods and spare parts, and to a higher domestic demand for manufactured
products.
40.       Nevertheless, many enterprises, both public and private, still
suffer from low capacity utilization. While average capacity utilization was
about 65% in FY79, capacity utilization was particularly low in chemicals
(50%), engineering (50%), steel (49%) and foods (40%). Although the reasons
vary from plant to plant, a number of common factors are identifiable, includ-
ing: (i) irregular and insufficient raw materials supply; (ii) equipment
breakdown and poor maintenance; (iii) insufficient labor training and migration
to the Middle East; (iv) administrative delays linked to excessive centraliza-
tion; (v) frequent power cuts; (vi) inadequate transportation; '(vii) lack of
spare parts and components linked to foreign exchange shortage; and (viii)
lack of working capital which prevents procurement of sufficient spares and
components and even, in some cases, raw materials to operate at capacity.
Development of an Industrial Strategy
41.       At the outset of IDA's dialogue with GOB in 1973 on the role of the
industrial sector in the economy, it was recognized that there was a need to:



- 12 -
(i) increase the efficiency of the public manufacturing enterprises; (ii) in-
crease exports, particularly through the identification and development of
non-traditional exports; and (iii) move towards a mixed economy with greater
involvement of the private sector in industrial development. IDA's first three
program credits addressed the needs of the public sector units for raw mate-
rials and spare parts in order to improve capacity utilization. Since 1975,
an ongoing program of subsectoral reviews was introauced and carried out under
the Fourth through Eighth Imports Program Credits to identify and address
policy and procedural issues constraining performance in the public sector.
These reviews covered the jute, cotton textile, fertilizer and pulp and paper
sectors. From these subsectoral studies a series of action programs were devel-
oped and implemented, and studies initiated to determine the long-term devel-
opment needs of each subsector. Public sector units covered by the action
programs have been given more autonomy to improve their operational and
financial performance. Additionally, GOB is reorganizing and consolidating
the structure of existing units. Although progress has been slow, the jute
and fertilizer industries have been returned to profitability, and sector
rehabilitation programs initiated. Work on the textile sector is progressing;
production efficiency has improved, and pre-appraisal of a proposed sector
rehabilitation project was undertaken in December 1980. In the pulp and paper
sector, the findings of the subsectoral review are expected in March 1981.
42.       Export Development.  Bangladesh manufactured exports have risen from
about US$220 million in FY77 to US$375 million in FY80, or by almost 70%, with
significant growth rates for tVmber products (360%), handicrafts (200%) and
leather (200%).  However, these growth rates have been largely offset by
stagnation in real terms of jute goods exports. Other factors retarding the
rate of growth have been the dominant orientation of Bangladesh's industrial
development toward import substitution, and the low profitability in some
areas of export industry. Following IDA's Industrial Sector Mission in
1978, however, GOB undertook to reverse this situation. As a first step, an
Export Development Program was incorporated as part of the Seventh Imports
Program Credit. The Program included the strengthening of the institutional
framework of the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB), development of a national
export policy and export strategy, export product identification and develop-
ment. and improvement of trade information services. Under the Eighth Imports
Program Credit, the focus was expanded and GOB agreed to prepare a compre-
hensive Export Strategy for export development for FY81-FY85. In addition,
GOB agreed to (a) revise the Export Performance License (XPL) system to
establish a simple net foreign exchange criterion for awarding licenses;
(b) improve and streamline the duty drawback system to reduce costly delays
in imports; and (c) develop a more efficient system of collating and pre-
senting export statistics to provide a basis for future development decisions.
In addition, GOB is planning to merge its XPL system and Wage Earners Schemes
to give exporters 40-60% of their export earnings in free foreign exchange;
but additional incentives will still be required to increase export production.
The review of the duty drawback system, due to be completed by July 31, 1981
is somewhat behind schedule, with proposals still under review. Review of
proposals for the revision of export statistics collection has been completed,
however, and implementation of revisions is on schedule.
43.       The Role of the Private Sector.  At independence, Bangladesh
inherited an industrial policy framework focused on controls, licensing and



- 13 -
bureaucratic allocation of resources. The structure of industry ownership
changed dramatically when the jute, cotton textile, and sugar industries
were nationalized together with firms abandoned by West Pakistani owners.
The role of the private sector was restricted both in terms of limits of
permissible investment and in the areas of operation.
44.       Since 1973, GOB's objectives have shifted, and the policies of
nationalization and public sector domination of the manufacturing sector
pursued after independence are being gradually reversed. Some manufacturing
units have been denationalized, and the pattern of investment is slowly
changing. With increasing private investment, the proportion of public
sector investment in manufacturing has decreased from 90% of gross fixed
capital formation in FY73 to about 75% in FY80. In the Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP) covering FY81-FY85, GOB anticipates that Tk 11.1 billion (US$0.7
billion) or 25% of the SFYP's total investment in the manufacturing sector
will be provided by private investment.
45.       In addition to continuing its dialogue with GOB on long-term
development strategy for the major public manufacturing corporations, IDA is
also assisting GOB to develop measures to accelerate the growth of private
investment in the manufacturing sector. Currently, IDA is conducting inten-
sive discussions with GOB on a program of reform on trade and industry policy.
Based on an indepth product level analysis of comparative advantage, the reform
program is expected to cover: tariff policy, export incentives and associated
actions to improve exports, the review of investment incentives, and improve-
ment in industrial planning and promotion. Under the proposed credit, BSB
would contribute to these objectives through subsectoral analysis of selected
investment areas, supplementing the role of the Investment Promotion Corpora-
tion recently established jointly by GOB and IFC.
46.       GOB has taken action also to remove administrative obstacles to
private sector investment. Recently, GOB established a "High Powered Board"
within the Ministry of Industries with a mandate and power to resolve admin-
istrative difficulties. Under the First BSB Project (Credit 632-BD), GOB is
undertaking a review of investment approval procedures and priorities which
is scheduled for completion in April 1981. Recommendations of the study will
be implemented by GOB prior to December 31, 1981 (Section 3.07 of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). GOB seeks to encourage foreign investment in Bangla-
desh, both directly and in the form of joint ventures, by estab:Lishing duty
free Export Zones (along the lines of that currently being deve'Loped at
Chittagong), and by its recent preparation of a Foreign Investment Act defining
rules for repatriation of funds, etc.
Investment Priorities
47.       Under the general strategy that GOB has evolved for industrial
development in the SFYP, agro-industries, export-oriented, and import-
substitution industries are seen as key elements in increasing the manufac-
turing sector's contribution to national development. This is especially
important through 'the impact of these industries on productive efficiency
and foreign exchange earnings. On the basis of the actions and incentives
proposed under the Plan, the overall contribution of the manufacturing sector
is expected to grow slightly faster than the rest of the economy, with an
annual growth rate of 8.6%, raising its contribution to GDP to about 11% by



- 14 -
1985. In view of their predominant role in industrial employment, contribu-
tion to industrial value added and export earnings, considerable support
would be provided in the priority areas for small-scale and cottage industries.
GOB recognizes that major potential exists for more rapid growth in organized
industrial enterprises producing components, spares and capital equipment,
and the manufacture and repair of agricultural and irrigation equipment.
48.       Under IDA's Third Small Scale Industries Project (Credit 1065-BD)
approved in September 1980, assistance will be provided to light engineering
and metal product units to manufacture spare parts and components for public
sector corporations, which currently import about Tk 225 million of their
spare parts and component requirements. Under the Ninth Imports Program
Credit, assistance will be provided to the private sector to improve and
expand its facilities to produce agricultural equipment, particularly pumps
and diesel engines. The support for GOB's planned growth and the resources
available under these projects would be supplemented by the proposed credit
to BSB.
Industrial Financing
49.       Bangladesh has a fairly extensive and well-established structure
of financial institutions serving the manufacturing sector. Nine commercial
banks provide mainly short-term credit, although they have increased project
based lending to SCIs under special schemes. About 70% of long-term industrial
financing is provided by the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB), the Bangladesh
Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS) and the Investment Corporation of Bangladesh (ICB),
with BSB focusing on small-to-medium scale enterprises (i.e., asset investment
up to US$1.0 million) and BSRS lending to large-scale industrial enterprises
(i.e., asset investment of US$1.0 million or more). The investment promotion
companies (including one jointly sponsored by IFC) provide venture capital and
arrange foreign exchange financing for viable projects. Local currency loans
to SCI are provided primarily by the commercial banks with some financing by
BSB, although in the past, the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Cor-
poration (BSCIC) was also active in providing both local and foreign currency
term financing. Under IDA's recent SCI projects, however, foreign and local
currency term financing has been channelled through the commercial banking
system. Limited capital market activities are undertaken by the government-
owned Investment Corporation of Bangladesh (ICB). GOB, through budgetary
allocations also provides some long-term financing in the form of equity and
loans to the State Corporations. GOB provides public sector financing pri-
marily through its Annual Development Program (ADP). The Association has
strongly urged the Government to consider financing these enterprises through
the banking system, however, since ADP funding is likely to further weaken
accountability and control over these enterprises, and is inconsistent with
GOB's commitment to improved performance in the public sector.
50.       From FY77 to FY79, domestic credit by the banking system grew by
some 50%. In the same period, savings grew sluggishly and commercial banks
continued to rely heavily on refinance from Bangladesh Bank. Lending to
private industry increased from 23% to 26% of total industrial credit between
FY78 and FY79, but credit was tightened at the start of FY80 in response to
inflationary pressures. If both public and private sector investment grow
as projected during the SFYP period, problems of industrial financing could



- 15 -
arise as both sectors compete for a limited amount of available credit for
working capital. Reflecting the improving investment climate, particularly
since 1975, BSB's approval to commitment rate has risen from 34% in FY76 to
47% in FY80, while its commitment to disbursement rate has increased from
63% in FY76 to 74% in FY80. Overall, for the period FY72-FY80, BSB's commit-
ments have accounted for close to 40% of total private investment in the
manufacturing sector.
51.       From June 1976 to October 1980, there was no change in the interest
rate structure. Commercial banks charged 11%-12% per annum for industrial
loans, while BSB and BSRS charged an average of 11.5% per annum for local
currency loans and 12% per annum for foreign currency loans. Those small-
scale and cottage industries which were unable to obtain access to local and
foreign currency under IDA's three SCI projects or those of ADB, borrowed from
money lenders whose rates were substantially higher. While interest rates did
not change during this period, the rate of inflation continued to rise, reach-
ing 18% in the first half of FY80. Thus, in FY78-FY80, real interest rates
were negative. This situation has been corrected recently. Inf]Lation has
since dropped to around 10%; assuming the weather permits reasonable crop
production levels, it is expected to be contained at about this :Level for
the next few years. In October 1980, GOB announced significant increases in
both deposit and loan interest rates. The Bank rate was increased from 8% to
10.5%, interest rates on term deposits from 8.25%-10.25% per annuam to 14%-15%
per annum, and the rate for industrial lending from 11.5% to 14% per annum,
with loans to commerce and trade rising from 12% to 15% per annulm.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       The project was appraised in July/August 1980.  The Staff Appraisal
Report (3186-BD) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1981. The Bangladesh dele-
gation was led by Mr. S.M. Al-Hussainy, Member, Planning Commission. A
timetable of key events and a listing of additional data relating to the
project are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
53.       The objectives of the proposed credit would be to:  (i) assist
GOB in expanding the private sector's role in industrial investment in non-
traditional export-oriented industries, efficient import substitution indus-
tries, and projects in less-developed areas through the provision of foreign
exchange term loans; (ii) further strengthen the institutional development
of BSB, with particular emphasis on BSB's economic and sectoral review activi-
ties; and, (iii) develop an integrated monitoring and control system of legal
instruments and inter-bank coordination to reduce the level of arrears on term
loans from the banking system.
Project Description
54.       The proposed credit of US$50 million would be made to the Government
of Bangladesh and would be onlent to BSB to finance the foreign exchange costs
of capital goods and services for projects in the industrial sector. If UNDP



- 16 -
funds are not available for the purpose, BSB would utilize about US$250,000 of
the proposed credit to finance the costs of an industrial economist satisfac-
tory to the Association for 24 months to assist in designing and carrying out
subsectoral studies, and upgrading BSB's economics department through a staff
training program (Section 3.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement and
Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).  Under IDA's first Credit to BSB
(Credit 632-BD), both public and private sector ent.?rprises were eligible for
financing. However, BSB deferred financing of public sector projects in the
jute, textile, and pulp and paper sectors pending completion of studies being
carried out under the Imports Program Credits to determine the long-term
development needs of those sectors. The studies have now been completed;
and, as direct project financing has been arranged or is under consideration
for these industries, they will not be eligible for financing under the pro-
posed credit. Other public sector projects could be considered on the basis
of their financial and economic merits. Service industries are financed
primarily through the commercial banks, and will not be eligible for financing
under the proposed credit except as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association (Section 3.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
BSB's Role and Structure
55.       Management and Organization.  BSB's share capital, amounting to
Tk 150 million, is held entirely by GOB. The control and direction of BSB is
vested in a nine-member Board of Directors appointed by GOB from senior GOB
officials and private sector businessmen. The Board is responsible for set-
ting BSB's overall operating >.-licies, and approving project proposals above
Tk 2 million. The Chairman of the Board and Managing Director, appointed in
1975, is assisted in day-to-day operations by two General Managers. Due in
part to a shortage of experienced senior officers, there has been an over-
extension of spans of control, and decision-making has been concentrated at
the upper levels of BSB's organization. IDA has suggested reorganizing the
operating functions to group such related activities as project promotion and
appraisal, end-use operations, financial management and control, and adminis-
tration. Prior to effectiveness of She proposed credit, BSB will adopt a plan
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association for the reorganization of
BSB, and thereafter will carry out such plan according to a schedule satisfac-
tory to the Association (Section 5.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement,
and Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement).
56.       As of June 30, 1980, BSB's staff numbered 856, including 385 profes-
sionals. Hiring of new professional staff has kept pace with staff turnover
which declined from 19% in FY78 to 10% in FY80. Until 1978, BSB operated a
comprehensive program of local and overseas training for its staff. After
a two-year lapse in training activities, which added to the impact of staff
turnover, BSB is reactivating its training program for FY81-83 in order to
ensure the maintenance of professional standards. In addition, BSB has intro-
duced additional fringe benefits and incentives, including provision for
accelerated promotion based on merit, which should further improve BSB's
ability to retain quality staff.
Operating Policies and Procedures
57.       BSB provides working capital and term financing primarily to small
and medium scale enterprises in the private sector. Term loans are provided



- 17 -
in the form of local and foreign currency funding, with repayment, of foreign
currency loans being made by the sub-borrowers in the Taka equivalent thereof.
The proposed Credit would continue the current practice, whereby the foreign
exchange risk on foreign currency transactions is borne by the sub-borrower.
To provide guidelines for the medium-term, BSB has recently adopted revised
Operating Policy and Strategy Statements. The Operating Strategy Statement
highlights BSB's development objectives which include, inter alia: (i) an
intensified promotional role designed to encourage new entrepreneurs; (ii)
adoption of a listing of investment priorities; (iii) identification of prior-
ity sectors for undertaking subsectoral reviews; and, (iv) a progyram to contain
and reduce the level of arrears. Although there have been no previous amend-
ments to BSB's Operating Policy Statement since FY76, the Statement, together
with specific Board resolutions over time and GOB's periodic guidelines on
industrial investment, provides a satisfactory policy framework for BSB's
operations. BSB has generally followed the investment priorities set out by
GOB, but has made exceptions when it is satisfied, from its limited sectoral
reviews, that there is underutilized potential in a selected priority sector.
In line with GOB's promotion of private investment in the industrial sector,
BSB has directed its financial support mainly towards private industry and
towards the development of non-traditional export-oriented industries.
58.       Following the recent review of BSB's appraisal and accounting proce-
dures carried out under the first BSB project (Credit 632-BD), there has been
an improvement in the quality of BSB's project preparation and appraisals, and
a strengthening of accounting systems and procedures, which now facilitate
prompt detailed analysis of portfolio operations, arrears levels, and balance
sheet preparation. Under the provisions of its second loan from ADB in FY78,
BSB carried out a review of its organizational arrangements and procedures
for supervision. Since the review, BSB has reorganized end-use operations
based on a regional grouping of projects, and is now introducing changes to
its site visit reporting system to focus on operational problems and issues.
Lending Operations
59.       Operational Results.  BSB's net approvals increased from Tk 54.9
million (US$3.4 million) in FY76, to Tk 1,024.9 million (US$64.1 million) in
FY80. Commitments have increased from Tk 20.4 million (US$1.3 million) in
FY76 to Tk 476.9 million (US$29.8 million) in FY80. However, due to a current
shortage of foreign exchange, BSB had a backlog of uncommitted approvals of
Tk 624 million (US$39.0 million) as of June 30, 1980. Since Independence,
BSB has achieved a commitment to disbursement rate of 71%. Thes trend of BSB's
sectoral financing has moved increasingly from public to private sector financ-
ing; for the period FY72-FY75, over 60% of BSB's operations were for public
sector financing, while for the period FY76-FY80, about 98% of operations were
in the private sector, with new clients accounting for 87% of total lending.
60.       Development Activities.  In addition to its general lending and
investment activities, BSB is carrying out a limited range of complementary
activities and services to increase its developmental impact. These services
include: identification and promotion of new projects; preparation of project



- 18 -
profiles; project identification in backward and less-developed areas; and
training and advisory support to other domestic financing institutions. Most
of these activities have been initiated since FY76 following the involvement
of IDA, ADB and KfW.
61.       Experience Under the Previous Project.  IDA's first credit of US$25
million to BSB (Credit 632-BD) became effective on November 8, 1976, and was
fully committed by June 30, 1980. The credit provided assistance for 12
subsectors including: printing and packaging (27%); food and allied products
(24%); transport equipment (19%); chemicals (14%); specialized textile units
(9%); and service industries (4%). Six other subsectors accounted for the
balance of 3%. About 40% by number and 5% by amount of the project financing
was for small-scale industry financing. The ex-ante Internal Financial Rate
of Return (IFRR) ranged from 19% to 50%, and the ex-ante Internal Economic Rate
of Return (IERR) from 16% to 50%. Through 108 subprojects financed under the
credit, about 9,300 new jobs were created at a job/cost ratio of Tk 93,000
(US$5,812), although medium/large scale projects tended to be capital intensive
with a capital cost per job of about Tk 226,000 (US$14,125). No figures are
available on indirect employment effects, which probably increased employment
creation considerably, as many of BSB's projects manufacture inputs for other
companies. Until recently, BSB has not calculated ex-post economic rates of
return; but with the implementation of its Subproject Data System, these rates
will be calculated for future projects. With the split of industrial lending
between BSB and BSRS on an industry-size basis, BSB's lending operations have
been concentrated on small-to-medium scale industrial projects.
Portfolio Management
62.       As of December 31, 1970, about 25% of IDBP's (BSB's predecessor)
loan portfolio was affected by arrears of three months or more. By June 1976,
due partly to economic difficulties and partly to inadequate collection and
follow-up by BSB, the level of the portfolio affected by arrears increased to
77%, mostly in the public sector. About half of the jute industry was insol-
vent, and about 90% of BSB's loans to jute enterprises were in arrears. Under
IDA's first credit to BSB, and the Fourth to Eighth Imports Program Credits,
GOB initiated a number of measures to restore the jute and textile corporations
to profitability. These measures have been successful; by early FY81, all
past arrears had been cleared by both BJMC and BTMC. As a result of these
actions and BSB's collection activities to reduce private sector arrears, the
level of arrears has fallen to 17% of the portfolio with only 40% of the
portfolio affected by arrears. Although BSB's loan and investment portfolio
totalled Tk 2.1 billion (US$131 million) as of June 30, 1980, BSB itself is
carrying the risk on only Tk 1.1 billion (US$69 million) or 52% of the port-
folio as jute and textile repayments are guaranteed by GOB. As of June 30,
1980, cumulative provisions against non-payment of principal and interest
totalled Tk 187.5 million or 9% of its total loan and investment portfolio.
On the basis of BSB's portfolio at risk, the provision represents a coverage
of 17%, which is satisfactory.
63.       Public Sector Arrears.  In addition to the debt servicing arrange-
ments already in place for BJMC and BTMC, the proposed project would incor-
porate the following specific provisions to treat remaining public sector
arrears:



- 19 -
(a) GOB will ensure that no loans or investments are made to
any enterprises, or associated or controlling enterprises,
which are in arrears unless and until such enterprises
have taken measures satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association to reduce such arrears (Sections 3.02(b)(v)
and 3.11 of the Development Credit Agreement). Such pro-
grams, in addition to repayment schedules, would include
specific measures to reduce costs and improve profitability;
these programs would be reviewed by IDA during semi-anlual
meetings to monitor BSB's performance against its colleaction
target (Section 3.06 of the Development Credit AgreemenLt);
(b) GOB will ensure that past due obligations owed to BSB by
any public enterprise having after tax profits and liquidity
sufficient to service its debts as of July 1, 1980 shall
be repaid prior to effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Sections 3.08(b) and 5.01(c) of the Development Credit
Agreement);
(c) GOB will ensure that the Disinvestment Board will utilize
its cash resources available to pay BSB prior to effective-
ness of the proposed credit amounts due on account of
loans made to abandoned or disinvested units taken over by
the Disinvestment Board (Sections 3.08(a) and 5.01(c) of
the Development Credit Agreement);
(d) For any remaining outstanding debts owed to BSB on account
of any defaulting public enterprise, GOB shall allow BSB
to defer for up to two years the related repayment obli-
gations to GOB by an amount equal to any shortfall of
collections remaining, during which period BSB would
utilize all means available to secure repayment, after
which time the amount outstanding would be offset against
the related liability to GOB (Section 3.08(c) of the
Development Credit Agreement); and
(e) GOB will make adequate provision in its FY82 Budget to
repay BSB the amounts due on account of advances made to
any of GOB's departments or agencies up to the beginning
of that fiscal year (Section 3.09 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
While BSB has made loans to small-scale enterprises sponsored by BSCIC, only
25% of the amount lent is at the risk of BSB, the remaining 75% (Tk 28.0
million) being at the risk of BSCIC. Satisfactory arrangements exist under
IDA's Second Small Scale Industry Project (Cr. 825-BD) to ensure payment by
BSCIC of its risk-sharing obligations to BSB on the jointly financed small-
scale loans within six months, following the recent completion of the joint
BSB/BSCIC review of these loans.



- 20 -
64.       Private Sector Arrears.  With IDA's assistance, GOB and BSB have
developed a program for control of private sector arrears. This program, now
being implemented by BSB, provides for: (i) import certificate clearance by
BSB to ensure productive use of import allocations; (ii) the amendment of
Clause 34 of the BSB Order to permit use of simplified sequestration and sale
procedures for mortgaged assets; (iii) the introduction of a formal system
supervised by Bangladesh Bank, of interbank cooperation to coordinate and con-
trol credit allocations to common clients or companies in default (the system
is now operating under detailed procedures satisfactory to the Association),
and (iv) an expansion of the range on penalty interest rates from 2% to 2.5%.
Since overall interest rates were raised subsequent to this increase in the
penalty rate, a further increase is required to ensure that the level of
interest plus penalty rate substantially exceeds the commercial bank rate
for working capital loans. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement will stipulate that
the penal interest rate will be at least 4%, with a 50% remission for enter-
prises which repay all amounts due within one year from the date of default.
The penalty rate will be reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary (Section
3.02(b)(vi) of the Development Credit Agreement). Coupled with these actions,
BSB has prepared detailed collection targets for FY81-FY83, and BSB's per-
formance in meeting these targets will be reviewed semi-annually until
January 1, 1985 by GOB, BSB and the Association (Section 3.06 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Financial Performance
65.       BSB's net profits (after tax and provision for bad debts) increased
from Tk 15.8 million in FY76 to Tk 20.6 million in FY80, representing a 1%
return on average total assets. Profits after tax and provision for bad debts
as a percentage of average equity have remained at about 20%. The rate of
dividend has remained constant at 5% on equity. Although margins continued
to be constrained by the increase in the average cost of funds (resulting
partly from payment of deposit interest rates 1%-2% higher than commercial
rates), this has been offset by the relatively larger volume of foreign cur-
rency loans which carry a slightly higher margin than local currency loans.
For FY80, BSB had a positive interest spread of 1.1%. Total assets increased
from Tk 1.5 billion (US$94 million) in FY76 to Tk 2.8 billion (US$175 million)
in FY80, an annual average rate of 21%. During the same period, BSB's long-
term portfolio grew at a slightly slower rate of 16.5% with current assets
increasing by 28% annually. The structure of BSB's assets and liabilities has
remained stable over the past four years. As of June 30, 1980, BSB's accounts
included shareholders' funds of Tk 363 million (US$23.0 million), comprising
issued share capital of Tk 100 million (US$6.2 million) and general reserves
of Tk 263 million (US$16.4 million). BSB's accounts also included a balance
of Tk 447.9 million (US$28.0 million) relating to preindependence liabilities
of IDBP for subprojects located in Bangladesh; of this amount, Tk 233 million
(US$14.6 million) has not yet been accepted by GOB/BSB. However, based on
the original terms of these loans, this amount has now fallen due and would
be payable on demand by BSB, as and when the liabilities are accepted by GOB.
To limit a potentially significant drain on BSB's resources, BSB would be
permitted to repay such liabilities, when recognized, over a period of at
least five years, or such longer period as may be agreed between GOB and BSB
(Section 3.10 of the Development Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
Projected Operations
66.       As of June 30, 1980, BSB's pipeline  amounted to Tk 2.5 billion
(US$158 million, of which US$106.7 equivalent represented foreign exchange),
consisting of projects under appraisal and projects approved by BSB's Board,
but awaiting commitment pending availability of foreign exchange. Of the
pipeline, 98.5% in value is for private sector projects and 1.5% is for public
sector projects. The pipeline is spread over 15 subsectors with the principal
concentrations being: food and allied industries 27%; cotton textiles 13%;
service industries 12%; cargo transport 11%; pharmaceuticals 7%; and printing
and packaging 6%; aproximately 30% by number and 10% by amount relate to
small-scale and cottage industry projects, thus providing financing for
small-scale industries additional to that available under IDA's Third Small-
Scale Industry Project. Geographically, the pipeline is concentrated in
Dacca and Chittagong. Based on BSB's project pipeline, net approvals for
FY81 (Tk 1,075 million) are forecast to be about 10% above those in FY80, and
are expected to increase thereafter by about 12% per annum. Becausq of the
considerable backlog of uncommitted approvals on hand and the expectation that
these and new applications will be committed rapidly with the availability of
commitment authority under the proposed credit, BSB anticipates a significant
increase of 117% in actual commitment during FY81 with an average annual
increase thereafter of about 7.5%. The proposed credit would help to cover
BSB's existing backlog and projected future commitments until about February
1983. Commitments during this period (including approvals awaiting commitment)
are expected to be about US$112 million, leaving a resource gap of about US$62
million; it is expected that this amount would be provided in FY82 mainly by
the ADB, Saudi Fund, and KfW.
67.       On the basis of projected lending operations for FY81-FY85, BSB's
profits after tax are expected to increase from Tk 40.4 million in FY80 to
Tk 153.0 million in FY85. This rate of increase will enable BSB to build up
its provision for bad debts, but may not be %ufficient to add substantially to
its general and special reserves. This position would, however, be monitored
closely during GOB's annual review of BSB's interest rates, which also includes
a review of interest spreads and operating expenses. Total assets are expected
to grow from Tk 2.8 billion in FY80 to Tk 7.6 billion in FY85, an annual
average growth rate of 22.3%. BSB anticipates increasing its share capital
by Tk 50.0 million in FY81, supplemented by subordinated loans from GOB of
about Tk 680 million over the period FY81-FY85. With this infusion of capital,
BSB's debt/equity ratio will be brought within the level of 5:1 prior to
effectiveness of the proposed credit, and should remain below this level
thereafter (Section 3.04(a) and (b) and 5.01(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement and Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the Project Agreement). With the aid
of the arrears control program now being implemented, BSB expects to maintain
a satisfactory liquidity position, keeping its debt service coverage ratio at
about 1:3 which is satisfactory. To ensure that BSB is able to service its
debts, GOB and BSB will take such measures as are necessary to maintain BSB's
debt servicing ratio at not less than 1.2:1 (Sections 3.04(b) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and Sections 3.03 and 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
Terms and Conditions
68.       Exchange Risk.  Continuing the current practice, the foreign
exchange risk on the credit would be passed on to the sub-borrowers (Section
3.02 (b)(iii) of the Development Credit Agreement).



- 22 -
69.       Onlending Arrangements.  Proceeds of the proposed credit would be
onlent from GOB to BSB on terms and conditions set forth in a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Conclusion of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and BSB
satisfactory to the Association would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Sections 3.02(a), (b) and (c) and 5.01(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement). The onlending rate from GOB to BSB would be at 9% per annum
with BSB onlending to sub-borrowers at a rate of not less than 14% per annum
(Section 3.02(b)(i) and (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement). GOB will
review annually the interest rates on both foreign and local currency loans
and adjust such rates as necessary to insure that they remain positive in real
terms and consistent with the overall rates applicable to the industrial sector
(Section 3.05(a) and (b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
70.       Other Charges.  BSB would pay GOB a commitment fee of 0.75% per annum
of the undisbursed balance, which would be passed on to sub-borrowers by way
of a commitment fee of 1% per annum on sub-loans, payable from the date of
commitment to the date of disbursement of each sub-loan (Section 3.02(b)(iv)
of the Development Credit Agreement).
71.       Amortization.  Repayments to GOB by BSB would be based on a flexible
amortization schedule in approximate conformity with the repayments received
by BSB from sub-borrowers. The repayment period for individual subloans would
not exceed 18 years, including a three-year grace period (Section 2.02(d) of
the Project Agreement).
72.       Free Limits.  The free limit for sub-loans under the credit would
be US$300,000 for BSB's lending to any one project (Section 2.03(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). Based on BSB's pipeline and backlog of approved
projects, IDA would review about 25% by number and about 50% by amount of
projects to be financed under the proposed credit.
73.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement for projects to be
financed under the proposed credit would be in accordance with BSB's standard
procedures which are satisfactory to the Association, and provide for:
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for procurement requirements of
US$500,000 or above; Limited International Tendering (LIT) for requirements
from US$150,000 but less than US$500,000; and commercial shopping for procure-
ment below US$150,000. The credit would be disbursed to meet 100% of the
foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported goods or services, and
100% of total expenditures for consultancy services. Project expenditures
incurred up to 90 days prior to receipt of a subloan application would be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the proposed credit (Section
2.03(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). On the basis of BSB's project
pipeline, it is expected that the proposed credit would be fully disbursed by
April 30, 1986 (Section 2.04 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Audits and Accounts
74.       Under Credit 632-BD, a UNDP-financed accounting advisor assisted
BSB to reorganize and strengthen its loan and general accounting operations.
The present arrangements are satisfactory, and will be continued under the
proposed project (Sections 3.01 and 3.02 of the Project Agreement).



- 23 -
Project Benefits and Risk
75.       Benefits.  The proposed credit would help bridge the gap in the
availability of foreign exchange to finance the capital goods requirements
of industrial sector projects, and would contribute to a much needed increase
in the level of private sector involvement in industrial development. Based
on BSB's existing pipeline, subloan beneficiaries are expected to be mainly
medium-sized private firms starting new ventures in export-oriented industries,
transportation and storage particularly of agro- and agro-industrial products.
Based on the experience under IDA's first credit, ADB's second credit, and an
analysis of the project pipeline, about 98% of the credit would be used for
private sector projects, with about 30% of the projects located in the less
developed areas. Small scale industry would also benefit, with about 5% by
value of the credit expected to be used for this subsector. Direct employment
generated is projected to be about 13,500 full-time jobs with a job/cost ratio
of about Tk 108,000 (US$6,750). Sample indicators of financial and economic
rates of return for projects in the pipeline indicate projected IFRRs of about
30% and IERRs of about 50%.
76.       Risks.  The main risks associated with the proposed credit concern
the investment climate and BSB's arrears. While GOB is projecting a signifi-
cant increase in the level of private sector investment, realization of this
goal will depend upon continued stability in the economy and a more positive
translation of GOB's policy intentions into actual incentives. In the area of
BSB's arrears and liquidity, there is a risk that the actions now being imple-
mented (noted in paragraphs 63-64) would not result in the expected level of
improvements in collections from the private sector, although results to date
are considered satisfactory. If improvements are not fully achieved, BSB
could require support from the Bangladesh Bank to meet its repaymtent commit-
ments. However, at present, the prospects for increased participation by the
private sector in industrial investment, and for BSB's stability, appear good.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and BSB, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Additional conditions of effectiveness are listed in Annex III and
include the following: (i) BSB's debt/equity ratio to be within 5:1 (para-
graph 67); (ii) repayment of arrears owed by GOB's Disinvestment Board, and
by any public sector ent!rprise having after tax profitability and liquidity
as of July 1, 1980 sufficient to service its debts (paragraph 63); and
(iii) adoption of a satisfactory organization plan for BSB (paragraph 55).



- 24 -
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
February 27, 1981



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                  REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AV,AtGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. EN)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           14(.O                               MOST RECENT      TL  INCOME                MIDDLE INCOMtP
AGRICULTURAL     97.3              1960   b   1970 lb ESTIMATE l    ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA 6. PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                 40.0        50.0    100.0              212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSU(PTlION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..        32.0/e   43.0              166.0                   842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    53.2       68.1      84.7
uRBAN PoPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1         7.6     10.4               20.8 B39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   143.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     314.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. iM.                     369.0       473.0    588.0              193.2                   376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    540.0      683.0    871.0              409.6                  2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 RS.                         44.3        46.4     42.9               42.0                    40.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.5       51.0      54.4               55.0                    56.2
6S YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.6      2.7                3.0                     3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.5      2.7                2.2                     2.4
URBAN                             3. 9        6.5      6.9                3.9                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0        50.0     46.0               37.4                    2f.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    25.0        25.0     17.6               14.6                     7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3. 5        3.1      3. 2               2.6                     1. 9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       345.6    903.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..      8.9               15.6                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        106.0       101.0     89.0              101.4                   116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                  85.0        85.0     75.0               92.4                   108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        43.0     36.0               49.8                    60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9. 0        9.0      6.4               12.0                    188
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    29.0       25.0      23.0               17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)   40.0        40.0     47.0               50.8                    63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       153.0    139.0                ..                     52. 8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        45.0     53.0               30.2                    42.4
URBAN                              ..        13.0     15.0               66.0                    62. 1
RURAL                              ..       47.0      55.0               20.0                    29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        6.0       5.0               17.7                    52.8
URBAN                              ..         ..      40.0               71.3                    71.1
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..                 ..                    42. 4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            ..      E430.Ojc  9260.0             6322.7                  4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      79850.0 42080.0             9459.0                  2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              ..      6610.0/4 5490.0             1758.4                   819.4
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..        ..                ..                     28.8
BOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERAGE NUHBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IEUELLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..                 .
URBAN                              *         3.  
ERURAL                             * *         *



- 26 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  2
BANGLADESN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERLAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTI!ATE) 
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE tb    ASIA a PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 47.0        61.0      81.0               80.9                    98.6
HALE                 66.0        80.0    103.0                94.3                    99.2
FEMALE               26.0        42.0      58.0               66.7                    97.7
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0        19.0      23.0               26.6                    55.5
HALE                 14.0        30.0      33.0               34.8                    60.7
FEHALE                1.0         8.0      11.0               18.2                    49.9
POCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   1.0         1.0       1.0                9.9                    13.7
PIJPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRARY                               *-        49.0      55.0               41.1                    34.6
SECONDARY                           ..        26.0      24.0               20.5                    28.5
ADULT LITERACY RAITE (PERCENT)      21.6/f        ..      26.0               40.9                    85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.4       0.4                1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                 25.8                    118.9
POPULATION                          ..          . 0     14.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..       0.4                2.4                    39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..       5.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..                 ..              *      4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18515.0    23666.8  31000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        16.5      17.0               29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             86.8        85.9      74.0               70.5                    51. 9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.3         3. 5     11.0               11.6                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.0        34.6      34.4               37.9                    39.1
MALE                                58.7        55.8      55.3               51.3                    48.5
FEMALE                              11.4        11.8      12.1               23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3     1   1.4       1.4                1. 2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18. 3/R     16. 7/h
BIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5A       42.3/h    38.0                 .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 9/R      7. 9/h    8. O/i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. 9^      19.6/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     139.0              107.8
RURAL                               ..          ..     111.0               86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                   182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTlY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      86.0               46.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      86.0               51.7                    33.2
Not available
Not *pplicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator ate population-weighted arithmetic mneans.  Coverge of countries
mong the indicators dependa on availability of data and is not uniform.
/   Unleas otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for flost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
L    Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Governmsent hospital establishaents only;  /e 1973;
L 1962; /g 1963-64; /h 1966-67; li Estimated percent of national income.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are an of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 27 -
Aninex I
P'age 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data soc dret trt  ..u.... generally  udged the most authoritativ  eand reliable  it should also be noted tha.t they sap not be in.te-
nationalily noaperabls becas  o f th tln  of siaadsrd ird definhitloa  and nentept  used by different nannsi   oheta  the deta.  The date ar, nene-
theles.a,. neful to deauthib  orders of _&gulcde, irdiano ted,adhruete nrancardifteenshtecnutfe
The.easogop r  (if the e                   ..s nutoY group of the subject  coutry cad (2) a cannEry grau  with somehat higher averge fana  that the onuetry grop
atteebet ...utry (eept for- "Capital Surplus Oil oporters"grop where "Middle Itraum   Nartb Atrina and Kiddle East' Is chosn.                 erte  of etrar
sel-ulue   ffinities)- .In she Iefermnos gt-up data the avergesaeppltr    eghe    rtmtcmas  o   ab dotrca   htsol   hne
laser hlf of  he nuaartes  negrou   has datei- fLrte. idnt         S tan  the eavrage of naun.trie  amo..ng the iodinanore depends as I           the tiahlt   atl
date  nd isoat uiform   nautne naa bceerated  in 1elain   averages. of one indicator to another.  The.e averge  are only usful inospsta  hevau
ofone indicenor at a alas asung the nou..try and refrrenoe g..eupe.
LANE AREA (thousand  q.kn.)                                                                   2PerIsaton oar Pihysiciar - Populetto  dividto by numear ca pasatinlag phy-
etal - Total euct. a a  re  n-prisiog land cr.easd ileud rater.                               _itn        q faiftd from   med"in  sob,Ierta  ntvetti  level.
AuRitultural - Estimte of agrlcu1narI area need temporarily orpercanetly                    Peculation per Nurais1 Iene.r.  Populat iondividad by nuber of praetioiag
I- or  roy, pasture, mario  and kitchen gardens or an lie fallow; 197) data,                maIn end femal  graduate  uss  prantinat nrse  and ...sieatause
GNP PER CAPITA (US$   - GNP pet ..priti.noa  icpielRed-  ota.  rhe,  edetaat-  optatr-  naal
oge PEECAPITA(ISO)    iSP pr cc pta estmates  t curei aket prices, na.-            ether. anrra) divided by their repcieace   f hoepitt1 beds
nulated by same convers-ion crhod ca World Sent Atla.. (1977-79 beets) ; 19ff,                available In public and private general and                  heia:ra eapita1 sad ma-
1970, cod  1979 data.                                                                         habilitetio c.sn.ntre.  Hospitaja are aetahliehceats psomanetly staffed
ENERY COSUMPION  ER CPITA- A  .. It...pti.  of  -i.l....gy (..l         by at.least ... pbysicien.  Estebliabeha.rt  pesidiqf priacJpa11ly  rate.dia
ENEGY  0SNPfPIONPE  CAITA- ftonl  anampton  f cssnrnsleseg   (aal        ar  are act iacludad.  Rural hospitals, hoverr, i-clude healeb andtmdical
and lignite, petcn.cem, sonural gee and hydro-, oulas  ad getemle -                           cnesnnpraetly staffed by   phyminin (bun by a medical sasitenst,
'ted0   ic kilograms nf coal eqIaetPer ..Pita; 19f   97,cd99nurse  mIdofe  eta.~) whi  offrin-paIen    ce dte   a   evd
dare.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iitain    rage of medicalfaiti F.Po  atatisninal P.purpse  -rbe  hsspt-
POPUUTION ANI) VITAL STATISTICS                                        ~~~~~~tale inolade WHfE. prinoipu1 Ecnea a1ed spectalised hospitals, sad cara
Ptp.l.ti.., Mid:j   A.  f J.ly 1;                               ~~~~hoapitals loca  or rnra1 hospitals and medical ad sert-ty reetere.
Total Porulocion. MId-Tear(millions) - As nf daly 1;19ff, 1970, cud 1979     Adieloie:per fJloep,,ital ,Bad - Total nuber of adisi.n. to or discharges
'rb,, Populatino (pe-cea- of total) - Rtim  of urban no tn...l yapulation;th                                                       b    obd.
differean definitions of urban  -rcas may affect ..oepaability nf dens                  HUSN
aeongRo-ntniea; 1990, 190)0, and 1978 deco.                                               AreSi.se of den..shold (nesa   e  hueod    t-caal  urban, a.d eaeD
Popolantro trojeoniona                                                ~~~~~~~A house:hold noainte of a groap of individuals who chore lIvIngq tr
ltonlpplto   by aeand er   nd their motalityeand fetbility raesfheho                                   inod  o  attatcl.Ab.dt pupot.d       y-.ynob  i.ddI
Prvjcin paea"stae,  f. or       '.ctlity ransa comprise of three Iev..u.sI'             Av-ero  ruober of persons oarro's  tonal, urban,  ,rd rura I-A Aveag nS.
ma li a  naruya   ii  tceeo    ihcutvy'c err 00pita   -                                                                            n innene  baifpea    poro, .   roam  Ical   rhn  se   ualotpied tcov.n.te...
lee,ndfemaIrbiocpca yaoiltetna  an 77.1 yamee.  Tho P....                                 dwlig,ruetvly.,elaaoldcn-p-,'rteeonsar.tuce.  and
metters ifor fer%tility rtet also huv- three IrveIa  -asmle  decline in.. -tccpiedpats
friiyanrding to t--cnme  le elnd yasa family plnin..ig  cfra .                  Aco.ss in  le triity (rn onfn deeIllngn) - total  uban, andrua-
tuch centry t  thi    ssIgne  one yE these1 nIn  aachioatln   of "nanelity        Cfnnvtoi...al d-slliega with electricity I. living q-artera as percetage
and f-rtility treede fnn prnjcttu PunpI.s..                                               nf  ntetl, urban, cud rura  dwrllinuar-ap-ctfn-y.
St.,rIoar. typapolaticn-I.uantaai-nay population there Is na growth nince
rho birth rate Is aqul to the death rtet, sod clan the age  tutue-                      ,,EAT..N
mainscaana          his Is achieved only often  fartilitry rane  declior in             AdiuntedErolenRann
the relara-   iea   fnnt -ottrprndnctinn rts., when.. nec .g..ratotn                      Primay school - total  male aud femalo-irn..s  taol 1ml  ead femal
of wmenrepanesman   erctly    mcanaianny ppultiasiecaa              nrolmet of all a. eaat the pris 1rylevl as pareta-geciesetm
estmaed  o  babacn  f  heprajectad ohscatteriotica  of the ppaletino                 primary achoal-ca& oultus   noaly inlad-n hbildree agedh
in, the yea  0900, and the rte of declita of fertility rte torplata-                        years hob   dutdfrdifru    egh  of pi  n   dr  ie   a
Y-aetutin..ary  .pnlafton In reanbed - Th. year whena-           inn   papulatico              a naam   uisar=aa   ctooth    iill bn  age:.
airo hoc beenvec-hd.                                                                      Se....dary erboel - ntatl. 'sale aend femal  - Computd as uhnv;estaadccy
Pepulotnlan .. loity                                                                             adcno rqirra an l...an  fou  Yearn atapoe  pffr   cerrim
Per so. k. -MOd-yea  population Per encore kilometac  (If I hec..tarr) of                      pd-vide   tsoca. vcaice,  rtechrtrina    istutiotePe  ai
natal      .1.l ..Iled-C.ptd. urea.                                                         usua .l.ly of 10 to 17 yamra of age; carvespond an  corss  r  ge-riy
only                                                                                      Vanati...l enrl..v. pecato  scodry   Vanatiseali i-titaim
PaaaioA- NS-untr  CPr-ret  - Children  C N-li year), workitag-ego  (ll-                    talueteharl,id uatri,   at  ther prc_m  hbiah oPente iadap.-
64 yearn), sad retired (65 Yaara and ave) na p-ertnraur  of aId-year papa-                     derlyo-u.dpraenacfseadary inatitatiane.
latina; 190t90   n   99daa                                                                   uu-ere   aic - pimary, and secodary - Tet1 atadete iarailed in
Fonulti-n  rowth Rtot   Perc..ot) - total - Ae--nualf-t h cairn of tonal mid-                    primary end seondary levela divided by numbers of tesab. r  in the
yearF peplas~lan. Bf-o 1950-f60, 1960-70, and 19)P-_9.                                         c..repondiaslves
Ppatairah  ate (p-ercean) - ncha-uoeAa  grow&..th rtes. of urban papo-                Adult literac   rtet (porent) - Litnerta adults (shie to road end writs)
latin...for 1910-h6, 19ff-Of, ened 1970-78.                                                    acpercantage of total adult yapulatino aged lb Yara and ever
onda eitrth Beats (par thoo-nd ) - Annua live births par ithnaund of cid-y-s
pauate;1ff   91,ad197  dat.CONSUMfPTION
Crude leath  .esfar.-nId   Ane  deaths Per tha.....d of muid-year                           P.s..oger Icat (ner thousand   plta)-Passenger .tar  compis.emter
popalatiam; 19ff, 1970, and 19)8 data.                                                      cam. amanfg less than eight pmna    Irdem                         h-nlars  ...ea  cad
Icons Reerad-tafa-Rtle- Av-cge no ha  of daughnt soomncIharinmlitary vehicle.
her naccl -rPrndacti   peiod if she sap-rienc   prsnWtaneii  fe                            ai  Racel-er  foe- thousand tclto)-All types. of rece.Ivers fa  ced
tiliny tria    saly fiva-year averges ending in ff960, 19)0, and 1977.                      bEadetsr  g ..e   uiops   huedo  poutt P                         aidas  ell
Paiv   looa-Acpar.onul  touadst atul  ube.t.c.poa                                             rsd recive- in c-utriaenud Ia years oboe r-gienratin  of radio sew.
of hirtb-..tral detI..  ..da  ena.pinma of ntIonal family planniag progra,                  wa  in effect; date for nte.nt years may not be  -umpaabl.ieson  mama
Family Plan_iac - lanc   (rarar  f  aried umn    P-a..eitage of married                        tnnies ahaliahad lIcenin.
wmnof child-h ...... age (lb-A4 Years )  h. use bi-th-canc-1 devices to                Ttcivc(arthounan  'pecultio) - TVreint  far brednect
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~in ...untrir.eand in yaara whom r-gitrttIt  of TV acts wa  In mE teat.l
fewrepr  irclaton(par nhou..a.d populotina) -iOboes the  - avrge ni-nl-
Loden of Pood P-ed-ciu  e c  Capita (1969-7h111O_) - Inden of Per capita  cul                  te    f"al   eea  iatcremn newpaper-  definda a, paidina  peb-
prudactian of all fond c-mditfon.  Pr-dutico rerludes seed and feed aend                     loaieri.  devted primar ily tn ectarding genra  ac.   In.,  "tis anasiderad
is at caendar yer basia.Cna.dintia cove  Primar  grads (e.g. s'ras                   ob   daily"i  in       -pec  at Iea   fortIr  aah
ianne.d of sugar) which or dible an   otanracrc   (s.   toffee end                        ci -o  An..naI Atrendatne Pc  Canito  tar Yfa-nase:d an the cueh- of
teaae  roc-ladad).  A9gregata preduotlan of each cutry in based en                          rikt   addrn    b   er   nIudeamaie    ndiei   is
macmod  averge producerpefoc acigta; 19f-bi  19)0, and 197E dsta.ca  mobile urI dine.                     h   .t   -.igdi...t   t-.i-
Par capita aurply o.f  caaie    rr    1o     t renatemenrt) - Campated from
-cEryc;quialee lf. net fondcsuppIeI  avila,ble in c-tay per aspire                    LABOR FORCE
Per dn.   Avilabl  auppl    compris   O..mie         tti pndrn , imparts leer           Tata1 Lsbar Fume- (thoc.eande) -Ocnmilyative person.   includiag
cptasacheages I itsnak.  Net -appiten  mlde ima1 feed, seeds                       -r - acsaduepoydbteaaigboon  o,suet,ec
qsuItities used En fond pr-ac..nIng, and l..t.. in distteibtian.  Require-                Iefiniin   to .   teioe  ovuetIener-ertoap-catie; 1960, 1970 aed
tarts wer  eaiatd by PAL beadl an physiagiral ne1.eds.far nrmul -cti-                     1973 dana..
ltty ened health conaidertag  -nirnec..nta   - teprture, bdy emighta, age               femle(oren) - pmle labor fame, as perenees' aftotatl Lehar ferns.
sad ae. dtc trihttau  of ypupletiun, and aloviog 1i peccant for- wast eat               htrtos(ect)-   blbc foar  in terming, f-raetry. hunting. and
husehoIld level1; 19t1-h,  7f0, and 1977 data.                                            finbing as porno rigs of ntal. leba  farce; 1990. 197E sad 1979 deas.
net spply of tend per day.  tat supply at tend in defltned assae    r                     nd ~etec-irny, aertea  gumt Inpceige                   ve  lbrfre  1990,
qoraeta. for all-- cuira  retblinhed by USDA pcnvida fartniu                           1970 nod 197B data..9  o
alownc   at hEgm'  at tata1 protein per day and 20 grace of arfeal and             Pnpticipatia  Rat   pecreer)t  -t totl, male,,ed. facle~  -Partla.ipattee
plepoe in, of whith 10 e-a  should be animal protmr   Th-a  stn-                       ntvt-aesaecmue1stna,ml,ad                                   .l labor f.teac
ard   r   oe  than those ot 75 gcm  nf total pricen 0t   gra                 f atts.o   ..,-.edf 1 ORIto                                                1.g.t.-i.y
anIml protein as  usnga Etc the w-Id, penpos..d by yA0 Ir thm Third                      p9ccant9ase ofd natal  male. sod f-al  PapLO to   atalaa-rsLtiey
Warld Pond Surve;1991-hi, 1970 ad1)   sa                                                    90   91   nd17   aa            h     c   1'  pattcipanios rtes. teflecatag
Prcia  rtin suorly from unial aend Pnlse   Pratrin supply of  197d de               age-s  atencIar  ati the pouain1n   agtu   rn.Afwsn
aired  free animalo sod pulse   to  ram  par day; 1961-, 190adp97dta             reni   cedeoy Betio-aneo   vpltn    ne   1  n   bsdae
Child (gs1-4) Mortality Rate-(car rh....ad) - annual deaths per1 thns sd te                    no. the ntal. labor Poree.
age group 1-A yese, in oblidrer In this age grop;  I_tc -devlo fag an--
ttries dataderived from life tables; 1991, 1970 and 197) dan.t INCOMEi DISTRIBUTION
Eap                                                                              Pernycta-setg  .b-ofy.t.ofliof ingPrivate Incom   (hath in cash sand kind   R- Ecivd by richest
ETALTH   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Nperre- n, cihbma  21  ecn.  era P20 psccen, and poermet 40 Para..at
atbrh   1990, 1970eand 1978 data.
eftme  Mttrtlinty gate (per tha....nd) -      ..Ine   deahs of im  atr  under are y-a    POER7tTY TARfET GROUPS
of age Per thousan.d live bircha.                                                         Estimated Abnalote Povety i-cv  Leve   (US$  i-ts   ubnsdrrl
aree. to Saf a Water  prcnta  paulttn  -  oa,ra sd rural - N,                                Abeelats p-vety lecame level is that itacom  I.,    elnaa    
eumbar of People (rena, aranb      ad.rural) with reasona ble-...s te eats                   cutritieaally adeqasts diet plesential ace-fond reqalei-ts  Is cot
ester suPply (inalade  tretedsuf ear.. waec  -c  --.ene  hn-a--temiuoe                        ff fodable.
water each as abet eca  proterced barehale, springs, and  actar  sells) am                 estmtdte        nr   aee   saelvl  Efcrste      ae   e   ae 
percentages of teir respective ppuletleos.  Tascuha   ares ip-bli          tlutad relative  Poverty I...me  leve1i  one-thr  of arag  pera            -t
da ace-aet     ospn  cdervcintsp of thei day in .  prr bligthenrua-Prcrofpulta(reeedua)woae  abeas  ae
Aromast no t   tacena E t na .g neted aot         20aaia     oa.  re    a
d:impema  as perintgm aith  ther  etphtre                  h.p...ns . EInreas   t:T-o die-                                  Ec- noy n  mad- 1Cecl  Eas-s-   f..v thmina
pasa  ma...   ld  the....   .-Id tic  o  dsly t   ., ith or ninhaun     .h...hod            B.        th tceatenf oenhiah -nlytso liadt PI.ejai-b Deemm
pie priviesfcvd similar icemelrbninos.



- 28 -
Annex I
Page 4
BAIGtAD!EN
ECONIMC INDICATORS
Population:                    89.5  million  (July  1980)
GNP  Per  Capita:              US$90  (FY80)
Amount            Average A-nu--  Increase (X)      Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$           (in constant FY75 prices)               (in current prices)
Indicator                            in current prices)
FY79             FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY60        FY70       FY75       Fs80 /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product lb                    9,512.5                4.0      -0.6        6.3    100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Agriculture /b                             5,174.0                3.1      -1.3        4.3     59.9       56.9      63.6       51.9
Industry /b                               1,170.2                 7.9      -3.2        8.9      7.7        9.6       8.6       12.5
Services /b                                3,168.3                4.9       3.3        6.6     30.1       30.0      25.0       28.8
Consumption                                  9,187.5                4.4      -0.7        6.7     92.4       92.8     100.0      102.1
Gross investment                             1,330.0               10.9     -10.9       13.5      6.9       11.3        7.0      15.0
Exports of goods & nfs                         603.0                0.8     -11.7        4.3     10.0        8.3       3.1        7.1
Imports of goods & nfs                       1,603.0                8.8     -12.0       14.4      9.3       12.5      10.1       24.3
Gross national savings                         465.0               26.5     -17.7        ...      0.9        6.1       0.9       -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(in current prices)
FY73       FY75       FY79     FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                            603.0                                            100.0       100.0     100.0    100.0
Primary                                      217.0                                             41.9        31.4      36.0      30.1
Manufactures                                 386.0                                             58.1        68.6      64.0      69.9
Merchandise imports                          1,603.0                                            100.0       100.0     100.0    100.0
Food                                         250.0                                             44.1        42.2      15.6      29.5
Petroleum                                    186.0                                              3.2        11.1      11.6      17.6
Madhinery & equipment                        382.0                                             13.8         9.6      23.8      25.8
Other                                        785.0                                             38.9        37.1      49.0      27.1
FY74        FY75         FY76        FY77         FY78         FY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/USS)                                7.9661       8.8759     14.8521      15.4667      15.1215     15.2193
Export price index                                     104.6        132.9       108.7        117.7        136.7       168.9
Import price index                                     156.9        215.4       195.8        189.1       180.2        214.2
Terms of trade index                                    66.7         61.7        55.5         62.2         75.8        78.9
As Z GT
(at curret prices)
FY73        FY75         FY77        FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                      5.0         5.4          9.5         10.3
Current expenditure                                                  6.5         4.5          7.8          7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                          -1.5        40.9         +1.7         +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                  8.8         3.1          9.8         11.4
Foreign financing                                                    7.1         2.4          7.8          8.5
1960-70      1970-75       1975-80
OTMR INDICATORS
GNP,growth rate (2)                                                      4.2          -0.7            5.7
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                                           1.5          -3.3            3.0
Energy consumption grovth rate (1)
La At' constant FY78 prices.
lb At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
.     not available
... - not applicable
July 1, 1980
ASADD



-29 -                                               Anmex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTE8(AL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ in currant prices)
Actual                                                ProYe7ted
PY74      FY715     FY76        Y77       Y78       FY79      FY80       FY81      FY82       FY83
NeCt voots of goods & services                            -565.7    -696.4    -847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0  -2271.0
Exports of goods & services                              418.6     502.7      507.6     610.0      643.0     819.0       993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
Imports of goods & serviees                              984.3   1l99.1    1355.0       950.3    1429.0    1684.0       2603.0    2841.0    3233.0    3547.0
Net transf ers
Current account balance                                   -565.7    .696.4    _47.4    -340.3        786.0    -665,0      1610.0  -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Direct privata investment                                    -                    _                   12.0      15.0        20.0      25.0       30.0      35.0
,MT lons  (net)                                            274.4      508.2     502.9      246.0     399.0     465.4       861 5     950.0      995.0    1145.0
Grants e gr.nt-l1ke flws                                   347.0      395.6     244.5     229.7    386.1       495.2       504.5     810.0      950.0    1100.Q
Other capital flows (net)                                    2.0    -358.8      153.1   -216.1        14.0      13.4        88.0     -45.0      153.0      59.0
Change in r-servo f- - increase)                           -57.8      151.3     -53.1       80.7     -25.2    -124.0       136.0     -22.0      -71.0     -50.0
International reserves (end of period)                     t15.0      266.3     213.2    293.9       268.7     393.0       257.0     279.0      350.0     400.0
Reserves as eanths of imports of next yer                   1.15       2.36      2.69       2.47      1.91      1.81        1.09      1.04       1.18      1.26
Actual
FY74      Fy75      sY76     lY77        F78       FY79
GROSS DISJURSDiENTS
Official grants                                             347.0     395.6      244.5     229.7      386.1     495.2
Groes disbursements of 90T loans                            285.1     529.1      569.3     276.1      434.4     520.8
Concessional                                                201.5     468.0      538.9     244.7      399.8     500.3
Bilateral                                                   82.4     305.6      357.3     117.3      237.3     226.8
I8A                                                         51.0     112.3      128.2      "6.1       88.2     152.5
Other sultilataral                                          68.1      49.9       53.4      41.3       74.3     121.0
9on-concessional                                             83.7       61.2      30.5      31.5       34.5      20.4
official export credits                                     40.6      45.3       16.5       4.2        1.7       3.3
IBRD                                                         _         .          _                
Other ousltilateral                                          5.4       0.3        1.2       0.5        0.5       0.1
Private                                                     37.7       15.6      12.8      26.8       32.3      17.0
EXTU2NAL DEBT
Debt outstanding ad disbursed (end of period)               490.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068.1    2581.8    3005.1
Official                                                   383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2442.3    2856.4 -
18E10                                                       -        54.9       54.9      54.9       54.9      54.9
105.6     255.3     379.8      465.9     i54.2    706.7
Other                                                     277.7     930.7    1267.1    1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
Osivute                                                    107.3     118.3      104.7     116.3      139.4     148.7
Ondisbursed  eIbt                                           590.2    1033.2      952.7    1011.0    1316.2    1647.5
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payuste                                   18.0       31.0      88.3      58.5       67.4      95.4
Interest                                                     7.3      10.1       21.9      28.4       32.1      40.1
Paymets tas % eports                                          4.3        6.2      17.4       9.6       10.5      11.6
Paymnts as   GNF                                              0.2        0.3       1.3       0.9        0.9       1.2
Average interest rate on       loans ()                       3.2        2.0       1.7       1.6        1.5       1.7
Official                                                     2.9        2.0       1.6       1.5        1.4       1.6
Private                                                      4.6        2.3       7.8.      6.4        6.2       6.1
Avrage maturity of nw loans (yesrs)                          25.7       35.5      41.7      40.1       37.8      34.7
Official                                                    28.3       35.8      42.2      40.8       38.1      35.1
Private                                                     13.4       15.2      11.3      11.0        9.5      14.8
8*A%=  G1205URI  (7.)
IBBDDOD/total lOO                                            -         4.0        3.0        2.6       2.1        1.8
BD  disburseots/tot.l gross d1sburssrts                      -          -         -               -       _
IBiD debt servine/total debt erice                                      -         1.8        5.6       5.0        4.0
ID  DOD trotal DOD                                          21.5      18.7      21.0       22.5      21.4       23.5
Oh disburses ts/total gross disburs_auts                     17.8      21.2      22.5       31.1      20.3       29.2
IDA debt servite/total debt service                           1.1       3.2       2.4        5.2       5.6        4.6
%A 2 of Debt Ostetading
at End of F79
TMKe STSIICTtnt
Maturity structur, of debt outstandig ()
Maturities due within 5 ymrs                                                        12.0
Maturities due within 10 yers                                                       32.7
Interest structure of debt outetediog (2)
rnteroet due .ithin first year                                                       1.7
July 1. 1980
kSADD



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                              US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 17 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    557.24        -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      0.96
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      2.62
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      2.97
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50      3.31
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                      20.00      7.45
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                        62.00     4.98
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                 15.00     4.91
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                         27.00    16.19
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.00    10.87
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.00     6.08
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.50     0.53
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.00     9.77
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.00     6.46
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00     7.46
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00    15.57
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research             -       10.00     7.09
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II          -        5.00     3.29
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                               -       21.00    15.90
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II               -       25.00    23.30
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                           US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                   Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -       7.00    5.80
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -       6.00    4.26
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control          -      19.00   16.60
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                 -      75.00    1.43
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III            -      10.00    9.22
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00    5.64
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                 -      25.00   24.40
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -           32.00   31.76
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -       28.00   27.90
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -       22.00   17.64
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                  -      25.00    3.11
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                   -       25.00   24.50
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                         -      10.00   10.00
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII                -      50.00   13.42
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                      -      37.00   37.00
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II          -      20.00   20.00 /b
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       20.00   20.00
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation              -      11.00   11.00
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II               -      25.00   25.00
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -       40.00   39.45
1065   1980   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry III            -      35.00   35.00
1071   1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX                  -      65.00   65.00
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development                  85.00   85.00 /b
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport Project   -           25.00   25.00 7-
Total,                                                       54.9  1.,661.24  736.84
of which has been repaid                                   0.0       0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1.,660.84
Total undisbursed                                             0.0    736.84  736.84
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
T_   Not effective.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                           1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                             DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and all but 30 have
been commissioned with the remainder awaiting arrival of engines. Approxi-
mately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million from the Extension and
Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated to fund the Command
Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the Northwest of Bangladesh.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural De-
velopment Corporation (BADC) component; all processing equipment has been
tendered, and is being installed, and all of the revised program of civil
works and land development with the exception of the recently agreed 8,000
tons of additional storage has been completed, bids for which are now being
evaluated. Construction should be completed by December 1981. The Seed
Certification Agency (SCA) component is nearing completion; however, the
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) component remains beh:ind schedule
due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive aspect of
the project continues to be the success of the contract grower scheme. Wheat
seed sales have exceeded appraisal estimates, but paddy seed sales remain well
below appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales
are poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varieties for
multiplication.  Marketing consultants have completed their report recommen-
ding improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is
currently under preparation.  Future prospects have improved as a result of
GOB's recent strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support
intensive seed production efforts, reflected, inter alia, by provision of full
ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to permit completion of their FY81 work
programs. The closing date, originally September 30, 1980 was recently
extended once to June 30, 1981. A second extension is likely to be required.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
During project execution it emerged that, by adjusting the project
design, the area to be irrigated can be increased without changing the number
of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original project. The
Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1984 to enable the project to be carried
out fully over this increased area. Civil works in the original project area
are nearing completion. About 735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80
boro season irrigating about 30,000 acres. The extension and cooperatives
components of the project are short of staff which is slowing full utilization
of irrigation facilities.



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with less than 50 percent of works completed. Draft tender documents for
remaining structures are being finalized by WDB. Works on embankments, a
major project component have not started. The revised Project Proforma given
to IDA in May 1980 showed an increase in project cost of 77 percent over the
appraisal estimate. A special mission visited the project in July 1980 to
review these estimates and gave recommendations aiming at reducing project
cost without sacrificing viabilities. Current estimates prepared by WDB based
on some of the recommendations show project cost about 34 percent higher than
the appraisal estimate. Since not all recommendations were followed, the mis-
sion urged WDB to revise the current estimate to reflect all recommendations,
with particular regard to the optimum height of the embankments. The project
is expected to be completed in June 1983. Close supervision is necessary.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project progress continues to improve after a difficult start. The
increasing production and income levels among project farmers are now becoming
visible. Irrigation equipment and agricultural input supplies are now being
provided on a reliable basis. Field level management appears effective but
headquarters management still requires strengthening. The rural works program
is making good physical progress and is having a significant impact on project
area families. However, supervision of contractors work and maintenance of
completed works require improvement. The livestock, horticulture and extension
components continue to make satisfactory progress. The fisheries component
had been making good progress, but pond excavation has slowed recently and
improved progress is required in registration of fisheries cooperatives,
assignment of pond leases, and identification of additional ponds suitable
for development.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been progress in procurement of engines and pumps, tools
and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales of shal-
low tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has sold
its first phase of 2,050 pumpsets and procured its second phase of 8,450
pumpsets based on farmers' preference system. The construction of workshops
is proceeding with a modified program.



- 35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall project implementation is about two years behind schedule.
Progress during the last few months has been less than satisfactory due to
unexpected break downs of pile driving hammers, lack of heavy equipment for
foundation excavation, and heavy rains. However, new pile driving hammers
were purchased and the work resumed in November 1980; also, the contractor
agreed to rent heavy equipment for use in the interim until new equipment is
delivered in early 1981. Construction of ten regulators and chainel improve-
ment, drawings for which were completed several months ago, could not start
because the consultants are redesigning the structures. Tender documents for
the closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, are being
finalized. Water Development Board had prepared a revised cost estimate,
based on IDA suggestions, aiming to reduce cost increase. The revised cost,
about ten percent higher than the appraisal estimate, appears somewhat opti-
mistic. Close supervision is still required.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Project has suffered some delays due to late release of local
funds by the Government.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: Jrune 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been successful in getting the project farmers
to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields. However,
project implementation has suffered due to late release of local funds. GOB
has also not carried out its agreement to onlend IDA credit to the Sonali
Bank. The Government has since 1979 promised to resolve this problem.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date:  September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All Phase I sites (56,000 tons) construction is underway, of which
storage godowns with a capacity of 30,000 tons are at roof level or above.
Out of 53,000 tons of Phase II, 8,000 tons sites have been tendered; and
selection of locations for 36,000 tons of new construction is to be done in
February 1981. Two major components--godown rehabilitation and paddy drying
are about 12 months behind schedule. Selection of locations for Phase III has
been delayed to February 1981. Withdrawal applications for over US$2 million
of completed work have not yet been submitted.



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Progress in the implementation of the technical aspects of Project
continues to be satisfactory. BARC headquarters building is under construction
and work has commenced on the civil works component of the three regional
research stations. Contracts for the provision of farm and laboratory equip-
ment have been finalized. Consultants on farm development and potato research
have been appointed but not for research monitoring. The National Research
Plan has been published and the recommendations of the BARC technical working
groups have resulted in the generation of 39 sub-projects to be financed under
the research grant scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students
to take up overseas Ph. D. course and nine senior scientific staff have
attended career development courses. No progress has been made in the MSC
training program.
There has been insufficient budgetary planning and management of
project finances. In order to avoid substantial cost overruns, BARC and BARI
have developed closer liaison and a consultancy accounting firm will be
employed to ensure that future expenditures are properly planned and managed.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) five regulators are under construction and
some embankment work has been completed. Some delays have occurred due to
difficulties in land acquisition. In Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) construc-
tion is underway. Some components proposed within this subproject have been
rejected as too costly.  The Government has been requested to prepare modif ed
proposals. Periodic project progress reports required under the project are
not being received for the BRE subproject.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Based on the recommendation of the consultant firm, a 45 ha site
has been acquired by the Government for the construction of the central carp
hatchery facility of the project. Consultants have prepared and IDA has
approved draft design of the central hatchery complex.



- 37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage 6 Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
project proforma. Arrangements for CIDA financing of consultants for the
project were formalized in August 1980. A total of 15 subprojects have been
approved for construction this dry season.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Credit became effective on September 8, 1980 after having met
all conditions of effectiveness. Project Director has prepared a detailed
project Action Plan (timetable).
Cr. No. 1042   Mangrove Afforestation Project:  US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Dfate: December 31, 1985
Progress on the project, which became effective on September 26,
1980, is satisfactory. The Government has approved the Project Proforma
and the Forest Department has established a Plantation Trial Uni.t, which were
both conditions to the effectiveness. However, the hiring of consultants for
the preparation of programs for the Plantation Trial Unit and the aerial-
monitoring/remote-sensing is somewhat behind schedule. This will not affect
the mangrove planting program, which is the main component of the project.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site was
undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about three years behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for addi-
tional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing
was required. The required financing has now been obtained. P'lant construc-
tion is over 95% completed. Some additional delays are being encountered



-38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 9
but the project is expected to start production of urea in about the middle of
1981, only a few months later than anticipated at the time of supplementary
financing, and with costs within the margin for contingencies provided at the
time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of January 31, 1981, disbursements were about US$18.54 million
and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters of credit (QAR) had been out-
standing for US$1.53 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been good progress in training commercial bank
staff, distributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project
procedures, and advertising the availability of funds for small industry
loans. The project was fully committed by the commercial banks in July 1980.
Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun preparation
of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of January 31, 1981 disbursements were about US$73.6 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average of
about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariat of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds had been fully committed, but due to
currency fluctuations some additional fertilizer has now been ordered.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of-January 31, 1981, QAR were outstanding for US$4.4 million
and US$36.6 million had been disbursed.



- 39 -                     ANNEX( II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1023   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$29 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financ-
ing agreements have been executed.
Cr. No. 1032   Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project is making satisfactory progress, but is a little
behind schedule on hiring two of four sets of consultants required to assist
on some aspects of implementation. First Tender Notice for procurement of
rehabilitation spares has been issued. Tender documents for the construction
of two new training centers are in preparation. Disbursements to second
quarter FY81 were nil, but should begin in the third quarter to meet expenses
in connection with purchases of weighing scales, orders for which have already
been made, and to meet consultancy costs.
Cr. No. 1044   Second Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980); Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Agreed increases in fertilizer prices were announced on November 5,
1980. The first tenders for fertilizer and fertilizer raw materials have
been issued.
Cr. No. 1065   Small-Scale Industry III Project:  US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit has just become effective.
Cr. No. 1071   Ninth Imports Program:  US$65 Million Credit of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
As of January 31, 1981 QAR for about SDR 8.9 million have been
approved and letter of credit opened.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).



- 40 -                      ANNEX II
Page 11
The BAU component is now about 85% complete. The credit was closed on
December 31, 1980. The major civil works components are completed excepting
some nonacademic buildings (gymnasium and auditorium) which would be completed
within the next 12 months. The Government has already committed the necessary
funds for this purpose. The fellowship program is completed. Most equipment
items have been procured and installed. Payments of existing commitments will
continue until March 31, 1981. Civil works and equipment procurement associated
with the technical education component were completed earlier and the poly-
technics have been operating for the last two years. Project costs (in dollar
terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation. Most
local overruns are caused by inflation, implementation delays but mostly by
taxes imposed on imported goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project finances a variety of training institutions for agricul-
tural extension and rural development staff. Technical assistance is also
provided to assist in the improvement of the training programs. Implementa-
tion of the civil works associated with the training institutions is about 85%
complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured. The physical aspects
of the project are generally on schedule. However, the recruitment of the
consultants, who are to assist in conducting the studies and in improving the
training programs under the project, is delayed by about two years. This is
due largely to the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT) which is in charge of the educational aspects of the project. To
improve the effectiveness of the NCRT, IDA has agreed to hire under the project
local consultants who would assist the NCRT in performing its functions. The
appointment of these consultants is now being finalized.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Project Implementation Unit manager and architect are in post.
All sites for project buildings have been made available. Agreements with
consulting architects have been signed and designs are in progress. The
equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA
approval. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training
Centers (TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have
been concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.
Cr. No. 1054   Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All key staff have been selected for overseas training. Mostly all
major staff for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Regional Project
Units have been appointed. Preparation for a detailed program for first year
construction has been started.



- 41 -                    ANNEX II
Page 12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year generally has improved with better coordination and coop-
eration between the Health and Population Control and Family Planning Divisions
following the appointment of a single Secretary in charge of both. Training
programs for field workers were recently revised and upgraded to improve their
performance, but the programs are not yet being implemented as designed.
Implementation of civil works components, initially encouraging in several
areas, has deteriorated, and is now behind schedule across the board; revised
performance targets set by GOB in consultation with IDA to expedite the rate
of progress of construction components are still being met. Due to the slow
pace of construction, disbursement of the credit has also shown less than
expected improvements. The closing date was recently extended to December 31,
1981 to permit needed improvements to complete the project and full disburse-
ment of the credit.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress has been made on project staffing, site acquisition, and
completion of master plan for the project. Project architects have been
appointed and design development and tender document preparation are under
way.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. IDA has agreed to a
request from the Government of Bangladesh for an extension of the closing
date of the credit to March 31, 1981 in order that credit funds may be used
to defray the cost of eligible components of the arbitration and settlement
(and a further extension may be needed if the decision on arbitration is
further delayed). Significant failures are appearing on Feni Bypass. GOB
with the assistance of IDA appointed a consultant who is investigating causes
of the failures and possible remedy.



- 42 -                   ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1981
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays. As the
implementation of the consultants recommendations is expected to extend
beyond the current closing date a further extension may be necessary.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
Project Proforma and in the appointment of consultants for supervision. Equip-
ment procurement and the award of contracts for earthwork, bridges and culverts
have been delayed and it is expected that construction will commence in the
1981/82 construction season, a delay of a year.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project execution is behind schedule due to delays in procurement,
civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone switching equipment
factory, combined with difficulties in ordering equipment under the project
and in completing local construction and installation. Also TTB, reinstated
to function as a "Government Board" since April 1979, encountered difficulties
and delays in organizing its finances and accounts and in managing efficiently
its operations and development. In November 1979, the Government was pressed
by IDA to take promptly the decisions and the measures required to enable TTB
to improve its management and finances, to have the telecommunications accounts
transferred from Government to TTB and to transfer to TTB the assets from the
cyclone project. An action program agreed to this effect has been implemented
by the Government and TTB during the first half of 1980. Although the project
is late, most of the outstanding problems have been reduced or are being
eliminated. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. TTB is
presently taking final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under
the project which represent about 30% of the credit. Corresponding works will
require about two years from order. While the financial rate of return



- 43 -                     ANNEX II
Page 14
covenants are being met, the quality of the accounting information remains
inadequate and financial management and planning needs strengthening. Consul-
tants, financed under Technical Assistance Credit 872-BD, are assisting in
training TTB accounting staff.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Twenty-four subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, a one year
extension of the Closing Date was necessary to provide time for completion
of agreed subprojects. Disbursements have recently improved and amounted to
US$7.0 million at the end of January 31, 1981. The subprojects financed are
expected to have a significant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lend-
ing program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has begun, with 19 subprojects totaling
about $7 million having been approved. Thirteen further subprojects totaling
about $5 million have been approved in principle, and those that are finalized
first would be considered under this credit (with the remainder forming a
pipeline for a proposed Fourth Technical Assistance credit).
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun design
work.
Cr. No. 1091   Bakhrabad Gas Development Project:  US$85.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date:  November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 45 -                           ANNEX III
Page I
BANGLADESH
SECOND BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
One year.
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
GOB/IDA.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project:
November 1979, and July 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
July 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
February 20, 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
May 1981.
Section II:          Special IDA Implementation Action
(a) Semi-annual consultation with GOB to review BSB's
performance in meeting its collection targets
(paragraph 63).
Section III:         Additional Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  BSB's debt/equity ratio to be within 5:1 limit
(paragraph 67);
(b)  Repayment of arrears owed by GOB's Disinvestment
Board, and by profitable public sector corporations
(paragraph 63); and
(c) Adoption of a satisfactory reorganization plan for
BSB (paragraph 55).



- 46 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2
Other Conditions
(a) BSB's interest rate on both foreign and local currency
loans to be reviewed annually and adjusted as neces-
sary to remain positive in real terms and consistent
with rates applicable to the industrial sector
(paragraph 69);
(b) GOB, in consultation with IDA, to review every six
months BSB's performance in relation to its collection
targets, and to take appropriate steps to improve
performance if targets are not met (paragraph 64);
(c) GOB to implement recommendations of investment
approval procedure study (paragraph 46);
(d) GOB to make provision in its FY82 budget for repayment
of its arrears to BSB (paragraph 63); and
(e) GOB to permit BSB to defer for up to two years payment
of obligations relating to defaulting units, and to
offset against BSB's obligations to GOB any amounts
that prove to be uncollectible after two years
(paragraph 63).



